ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e6578	That 91. The meeting of the National Council is open. Deputies are reported as prevented by Katzian, Ing. Hofer and Ursula Haubner. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e6609	With regard to the representation of members of the government, I refer to the notice in the 90. Meeting: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter. [[00:07:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e6642	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e6745	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debate. For this meeting, a day-block speaking time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed for today, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 87 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 63 minutes and BZÖ 60 minutes. For the budget deliberations on Tuesday, 21. December 2010, a day-block speaking time of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 145 minutes, FPÖ 125 minutes, Green 105 minutes and BZÖ 100 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were also provided for by the political groups: During the television period from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., breakdowns 20, 21 and 22 – labour, social and consumer protection, social security – will be debated together. Each group has a total speaking time of 41 minutes. It is free to the political groups how many speakers they make. The individual speaking time for the first speaker, however, is not more than 14 minutes, that of the other speakers, a maximum of 9 minutes. The call of the speakers takes place according to the principle of contra/pro. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. The speaking time of the government bank during this debate is up to 15 minutes and comes exclusively to the SPÖ. For the budget debate on Wednesday, 22. December 2010, a day-block speaking time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 84 minutes and BZÖ 80 minutes. The following text was also adopted: During the television period from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., sub-divisions 40, 33 and 25 – economy, family and youth – will be debated together. Each group has a total speaking time of 41 minutes. It is free to the political groups how many speakers they make. The individual speaking time for the first speaker, however, is not more than 14 minutes, that of the other speakers, a maximum of 9 minutes. The call of the speakers takes place according to the principle pro/contra. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. The speaking time of the government bank during this debate is up to 15 minutes and comes exclusively from the ÖVP. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of Members without club membership to 10 minutes. In the sense of a concerted procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, the debate on the Federal Finance Act 2011 will be divided in the following way: General debate and heading 0-1 Subdivision 01 to 06 and 10, then: Heading 11 Subdivision 12 then Subdivision 13 then Subdivision 14 then: Heading 2 Subdivision 20 to 22, then Subdivision 24, then: Heading 3, Subdivision 30, then Heading 31 then: Heading 4 Headings 34 and 41, Heading 4 Subdivision 25, 33 and 40, then Heading 42 and 43, then: Heading 5, subheadings 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58; and text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV; then: Final votes. General – actually part of the general debate – statements can be made in the plenary session in the treatment of heading 0, 1, subdivision 1 to 6, Supreme Institutions, and subdivision 10, Federal Chancellery. This is a breakdown which has been given to the honourable Member in writing. The statements of words shall be made on the individual breakdowns, provided that the debate on them is not summarized. In any event, at the time of the negotiation of the Federal Estimate, the corresponding breakdowns will be discussed at the end of the same day. The session will then be suspended. Resolutions may be submitted in the case of the respective breakdowns. The second and third readings on the Bundesfinanzgesetz 2011 together with investments will take place after the consultation of heading 5, the text of the Bundesfinanzgesetz and the rest of the investments. Following this, the votes on the motions for resolutions will take place in the order in which they are submitted. The President-in-Office of the Council also agreed on the design of the debate on the subject of the negotiations in question as follows: The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 GOG will not be used. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the competent State Secretary, which exceeds 10 minutes, will be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The term of office of non-governmental members or state secretaries shall in any case be used at the time of the speech. with the exception of the speaking time of the Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllbei, the general debate held under heading 0, 1, law and security, division 01 to 06 and 10, provided that his speaking time does not exceed 20 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to these proposals to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[00:15:01]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (980, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2011 (Federal Finance Act 2011 – BFG 2011) together with investments (1044 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e6922	We will go into the agenda and get to its only item on the agenda. There was no oral reporting. [[00:15:20]] Heading 0.1 (Law and security) UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e6989	In accordance with the breakdown, we reach the consultation of heading 0 and 1, law and security. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. General remarks can also be made in accordance with the agreement. – Thank you for the attention. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7019	High house! Ladies, ladies and gentlemen in particular, dear Lord of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It is an imaginable time to talk about this subject after midnight and after this voting marathon, although, of course, as the name of the Supreme Institutions says, it is a very essential issue, because if these institutions, which have just been mentioned by the President, do not work, the entire state community does not work. It is very disappointing that this budget, which was artificially delayed by the incitement of a breach of the constitution, which was artificially moved behind the country elections under the pretext that it could then be made particularly meaningful and far-reaching rules, did not bring anything that would have been expected of political will to be done. This is the great disappointment, because when, if not now, where there are no elections for three years, at least no major elections at the door, could a substantial change take place in the state? When, if not now, could such changes have been made? It is therefore to be feared for the future that nothing will happen in the field. However, I try here at least once, with two proposals, to make substantial changes, which could actually bring about an improvement and not simply be a demand for more money or something else. The first substantial measure proposed is that the Court of Auditors is already involved in the creation of the budget in the sense of an accompanying controlling. At present, the situation is such that the ministries, each for themselves, make a budget, that is, that they think of their own ministry. It is therefore true that we essentially have a casting pot principle, so that the casting can first works and then the lawn mower passes over it. So you can perhaps create a golf course, but certainly not a flowering landscape. The view is missing from the outside. It would therefore be very useful if the Court of Auditors could be involved if the Court of Auditors, in fact, had already cooperated in the production of the budget, made model accounts. One could build up such a competence if one had some help in one way or another. These are measures which are guaranteed to take advantage of each entrepreneur in his area or also take advantage of it, as does anyone else, who acts responsibly. It would therefore be useful to think about it and to enforce it. The second proposal concerns the Constitutional Court. It would be useful if the Constitutional Court could also be involved and questioned in the legislative process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There should therefore be a binding opinion of the Constitutional Court in order not to add to what we have had to say over the last three years: There were about 30 laws that had to be repealed. This means an incredible financial effort and, of course, a restriction on the legal certainty of the population, which can no longer be certain that the laws will be legal. It would therefore be useful to resolve the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellor's Office and to seek, instead, binding information from the Constitutional Court and thus create greater legal certainty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is much to be said about this item on the agenda. [[Abg. We want more, Harald! We want more!]] Yes, I like more, but the time available does not allow. It would be useful to expand the competence of the public prosecutor. But there are resistances again and again. It is completely incomprehensible why this is so and why this blockade still exists. There would be many measures to be taken by the Supreme Institutions. There are, however, other speakers who will present this. In particular, it would be important for the Constitutional Court to be able to reduce its “backbag”, as it is so beautifully called, which it has built. The Constitutional Court is currently mainly concerned with procedures dealing with asylum – 65 percent of the attack comes from the asylum court – and is overburdened with it. We currently have about 2,200 cases that are open. It would therefore be useful if you were to suspend the session system for so long until this delay has been set up. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] So I can give the government parties the opportunity to take advantage of the situation that, for three years now, no elections are on the doorstep and to give the necessary courage. We will definitely support them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7090	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7144	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7166	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In December, an expert hearing on this budget, on this Federal proposal, has been made perfectly clear, in my view, two things have been made perfectly clear: There is an absolute need for budget consolidation. According to the additional expenditure resulting from bank and business packages, all experts felt that consolidation is a clear must. Ladies and gentlemen, in this hearing, however, it has also been made clear that Austria is relatively better on this consolidation route compared to others. Growth rates are higher, deficits are lower, debt ratios are lower, but above all the labour market situation is better; Austria is now the number one in Europe. Of course, the banking package, the economic packages have helped accordingly, but, ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, this is particularly important from the point of view of the Austrian People's Party: Not only the banking package and the economic packages are responsible for this, but above all the fact, and I attach great importance to the fact that since 1997 it has been consistently working on debt reduction. Since 1997, the debt ratio has been reduced from over 68 percent to less than 60 percent in 2007. It was even lower than 60 percent for the first time. Just because we have lowered the debt ratio so far, we can now at all talk about the fact that we stand relatively better, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore the urgent task of this Federal Government to ensure that the path of consolidation on the expenditure side is absolutely continued. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic facts cannot be removed by political wishful thinking. If expenditure dynamics are not broken in essential areas, there are only two alternatives: Even higher deficits that lead to even higher debt, which are still criticized, and that rightly from my point of view, or even higher taxes. Both alternatives are a damage to Austria. Both alternatives weaken Austria, ladies and gentlemen. This ambiguity cannot put anyone out of power, not the opposition, but also the one or the other voice that comes out of the SPÖ on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, debt is something – I advise you to ask Ewald Nowotny again and again – that makes a country weak and unfree. Therefore, the Austrian People's Party, with Josef Pröll as the Minister of Finance, assumes this responsibility. It is an alternative, and it is indeed top priority in the overall responsibility we are committed to. Ladies and gentlemen! Top priority, top organs. I would just like to say on the part of Parliament: Yes, I hope the reconstruction is done as quickly as possible. We've been sitting here since I didn't know how long, and it's a cut-off, to work under these conditions. Farms would be closed by the labour inspectorate at the same time, ladies and gentlemen! [[General condolences.]] But it is also a statement of how media is handled. In my view, it must be made clear that the report from Parliament is not a privilege for the ORF, but it is for all, of course, also for the private. Ladies and gentlemen, we expressly welcome the work of the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would just like to take one point at the Federal Chancellor's Office. It has been criticized, and from my point of view it is quite right that expenditure on public relations in the Federal Chancellor's Office is increasing. We have here in Parliament decided on a five-party resolution proposal on the rules on public relations by the Federal Government. I must tell you that what has been established in recent weeks is not in line with the spirit of the motion for a resolution adopted by five parties. I am therefore voting in favour of the fact that, if this motion for a resolution is not enough, it is necessary, in my view, to introduce a legal regulation so that, at last, transparency and clear rules of the game will determine the public relations of the Federal Government and that these rules will also be complied with, ladies and gentlemen. That's where we're obliged to pay the taxpayers. We cannot demand saving elsewhere, while in our own area the rules do not apply.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7239	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7260	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Molterer has rightly referred to the aspect of the general debate. Finally, it has been annotated. However, I note that no member of the government of the ÖVP is present at this general debate. This also fits in the picture. On the matter itself: Mr Molterer, of course. The link between expenditure, revenue and deficit – and the accumulated, cumulative deficits are then the debt – cannot solve anyone. However, one thing is clear: We have debated a lot today about expenditure, reduction alternatives, meaningful savings, less meaningful savings. As far as the revenue side is concerned, there is also a huge difference, and this is about the tax structure, which has a higher share and which has a lower share, and in any case also, which one increases in the sense of structural change and which does not. It is now true that there are some economic and employment disadvantages and others are less or not at all. In the asset-related field, it is not just about the aspect of distribution justice. There can be different opinions about this. But one thing is clear: Capital taxes, especially inheritance and gift taxes, have no impact on economic and growth at all when it comes to the very top right. That's why they're right and fair, but you're all running under the SPÖ's flank protection, which in turn advertises justice campaigns and occurs to the Federal Chancellor in the press hour and lets you tell all that, but that doesn't happen anyway. Don't worry about it! It would be right anyway. It is not sustainable in this country that millions of inheritances go tax-free with us. This is almost nowhere in the world, even in the capitalist countries. Start the comparison: A million inheritance will pay zero taxes. A normal worker has to work for 20 years, and on average he pays half off for taxes and social security contributions. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's not true!]] Of course that's true! Somehow over night you get a million inheritance and don't pay for it, but if you earn a million with work, self-employed or self-employed, then you pay. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Every asset has already paid several taxes!]] Mr. Altkanzler! That's a total nonsense! Everything has always been taxed, that is perfectly logical. Every process is taxed, every consumption, everything! In this way, other transactions should not be taxed either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Of course not. Each process is suitable for this purpose. That's incredible! From the point of view of the inheritor, it is an income. What else? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But with justice, you have nothing to do with it. You can't explain. If you look at your own government's social report – only a few days ago – you will find that the top 10 percent of the wealth concentration is still higher, and the lower 10 percent still less. Moreover, the same is true of income development, but this was the case specifically with the assets. If you are so inconspicuous if you want to defend it that you pay with 1 million € zero taxes, and if you work by 1 million €, you pay half off, over 20 years – before you do, you don't get it – then that is a wonderful Christian-social justice idea. We're going to bring this up even more often. And with your campaign that the small house builders would always be caught, you can also sit down somewhere again. This is not going to happen anymore, because you can do the free money in such a way that you can only pull it up from a few hundred thousand euros, of course. And that would open up the possibility of bringing in at least € 1 billion without damaging the economy, and then, in this sense, acting more justly. Then we could make a better contribution to other taxes, or actually raise expenditure – for example for universities – and not with the reproach that the government is operating there. Then: There's no extra money for the colleges, there's no extra money for the schools. Stop her filth! But that's what's going on. I come to our main concern, namely that we have put forward our amendments very clearly and that we may add more to the budget. They have demanded that we present our alternatives – one can essentially recognize them there, and then we will vote on them. That's so simple. This cannot be discredited as a delaying tactic or anything else. This is simply a matter of parliamentary proposals, of rights, to make the expression of individual Members or groups of groups understandable. That's so simple. If you have gone over to bring in the budget at five or six weeks too late, it will, incidentally, no longer arrive at this time. There are very clear parliamentary possibilities to clarify the points of view. I do not see at all why this is being defamated by Members themselves as an activism or something else – so that we will still have to deal with it extra.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7345	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7367	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I think this savings package must be seen in the international context. If you look at this in the international comparison, there are several factors to be identified: First: Austria is one of the most stable countries in the European Union, second, that country with the lowest unemployment. Finally, this package of savings is more balanced than any other one knows at European level. Both the German budget has stronger interventions and savings measures, as well as those of the United Kingdom, to the countries that are just forced to take more serious budgetary savings measures. That is, essentially, we have a package of savings, which is balanced in all directions and probably with the lowest savings throughout Europe. To the Supreme Organs: It is gratifying that we have virtually the same budget approaches at the Constitutional Court, the Presidential Court and the Administrative Court, so that the work of these courts is ensured. This is about shortening the procedures. I believe that there is finally also a draft Council of Ministers' opinion which could, in particular, relieve the Administrative Court by introducing national administrative courts. To the budget of the Federal Chancellery, 2.6 percent are saved here. The Federal Chancellery is therefore also very careful to deal with savings and progress with examples. It is gratifying that the savings are not made on minorities, nor on women, but essentially on media cooperation and on media promotion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Press promotion is massively saved, and I think that is also reasonable. But what I still notice at the Federal Chancellor's Office budget is – and this is really anachronistic – that there are still the cars of the national leaders. I think that the heads of state or the countries would be able to pay for it themselves. I believe that one should also promote the country's self-confidence in the direction that they pay for it themselves when they spend the money. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But essentially, I believe, we can be satisfied with the budget presented by the Supreme Institutions. The measures to be taken are not large. The measures at the Asylum Court are also limited, so that the removal of this “backsack” is ensured by summer. And that was, I think, the aim of the Court of Justice's introduction, namely to draw up the latent proceedings. I believe that, in general, the Supreme Institutions have succeeded in creating a yet economical but very effective savings programme that cannot be noticed by the courts.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7434	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7455	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning something positive: Mr Molterer's speech has been about the beauties of the other government speakers today, but also over the last few weeks. very pleasantly removed. I am only very excited about what the EIA is going to bring in to address exactly this abuse that he has rightly referred to. It has been unbearable for us in the last few weeks and months, on the one hand, to discuss how to save the smallest institutions: in education, in science, in scientific organizations, in the development aid, in the security of the country, in the families, in the promotions in many areas – and on the other hand, in the media, and there is one government inserat after another. In doing so, especially many ads and supplements have been placed in these newspapers, especially those resorts that are particularly indignant about savings. It's really an enning, we don't need this information! Of course, that the Ministry of Social Affairs should inform about pension schemes, well, no question at all that, if there is anything new, it will be reported about it. But really only because one seems to want a positive report in other areas to publish for some time the counterfeit of the ministers, that is really unbearable and heard, or at least transparently designed to see what the tax money is spent on in these areas. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Mr State Secretary! You're responsible for it, too. Make sure that the members of the government come to the media through their work, but not with paid ads! The budget has been presented – late, by a breach of constitution. We have a burden link for the population, important structural reforms have been neglected. The President of the Court of Auditors is sitting here today. It has developed an entire catalogue of savings, for example in the administrative field. We have discussed a lot about it, but everything has failed on the veto of the national leaders. Only when it comes to spending the money that the federal government collects, are the countries great and forward, they don't like it so much when it comes to control. We would like the Court of Auditors not only to be able to look even more closely at it, but also to be able to make accompanying checks on projects both from the country and from the Federation. Then many things that we criticize afterwards might even be prevented. We discussed this at the "Parliament", including in the Committee. By the way, Mr State Secretary, I must also say this to you: There were very unloving committee deliberations on the part of government representatives, including the “Top Institutions”. You didn't get a lot of information. One has had the impression that this is an annoying exercise of duty. It is precisely Parliament that should be made fit to produce laws here: not only do we vote on how we have had it now, but we can create laws ourselves with a proper legal system here and not just decide! That would also be a good thing for the future. Constitutional Court and Administrative Court are in principle in order with regard to budgeting. We would expect a change in the appointment of members, especially at the Constitutional Court. We've seen this again: One can hold a hearing about more or less suitable candidates, but we know that many do not even report because they know that the decision is taken elsewhere than here in Parliament. And this is certainly not positive for the quality also of the supreme courts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering into the detailed debates of a budget which unfortunately does not give any answers to the questions of the present and the future. There's going to be saving them without really focusing on the future, for example in education, but also in safety, the most is saved. I can only say a witness to poverty for this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7525	Next speaker: Mr State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7546	Madam President. Mr President. Mr. Volksanwalt! Women's People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! I will make it short on the basis of the advanced time, I have also promised some here. On the comments by Mr Scheibner: I answered every question in the committee, I also tried to answer every detail – and then we answered a lot of questions in writing. However, I would just like to make a few points about the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget. Peter Wittmann has already said that we have tried to save just as the other resorts, more than some other resorts. We are aware of two areas, and we have decided to exclude them, namely the promotion of women and the promotion of groups of people. Then the other areas were left: the promotion of the party, the promotion of the party academy, the replacement of the election campaign, where we have shortened, and the promotion of the press. However, I admit that this is relatively difficult to understand because many positions have been summarized – to the same extent in public relations. However, it looks more like the press funding in the budget because we had left money in the RTR, in the Digitalisation Fund, we had reserves, which we took out and led the press promotion. So we did not save on one side and increased on the other side. This is not clear by the summary of different budget positions, but it has been saved by 3.6 percent in public relations and a total of 3.6% has been saved in press promotion. I would only warn about that – that is always being put into the room – to shorten or even delete public relations, because I thought it was fatal for the press or media location in Austria, because I assumed that the economy could not compensate to the same extent. And this would result in a total withdrawal of money from the media in Austria. When you talk to individual representatives, you will learn that it was not always easy in this area, especially because of the economic crisis. I would also warn against it and thought it was very bad to believe that journalists can be bought per se, so to speak, as this is always tried so “subcutaneous”. Overall, we have saved at least to the same extent as the other resorts, even more than many other resorts. We also reduce staff – it is always the subject of administrative cost reduction – in the Federal Chancellery, by 4.3 percent, and we also reduce representation expenditure to the level of 2001. This is about half of what it was in 2004 to 2008. A very last comment on what has already been mentioned this morning, namely on these 300 projects of the Court of Auditors. If you look at this A5 issue of the Court of Auditors in detail, you can see that there are around 315 measures. ............................................................................................................................................................ Of the 315 measures, about 200 are concerned with improving efficiency or quality. For 40 measures, the comments are as follows: Savings. And if you look at the budget and the budget accompanying laws in detail – a lot has been publicly discussed recently in the field of national defence – you see that there are many small measures being taken that include all administrative costs savings. One last comment: something that also refers to the Federal Chancellery: E-Government is a very large administrative reform project that was not started now but started a long time ago. Last week, Commissioner Kroes announced that Austria had again taken first place in this EU ranking. I mean, that's something you also need to highlight positively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7607	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7629	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Budgetary policy is in figures social policy, we have to be aware of it again and again and again, and this should also be at the heart of these debate days. The public budget reflects the social, social and economic priority of a state, a federal state, as well as a community – and at the same time reflects certain social guidelines; this is a very essential point. I believe that we agree if we want one thing together as a guide to our policy, namely a gender society. But that also means that we need a gender budget, and I know that is very often smiled and is also questioned a little, but: With a gender budget, we can use measures, opportunities and resources quite consciously to prevent existing inequalities in the budgeting – and there are. The fact is that, in the Bud-get 2011 this gender aspect is taken into account: whether this is done in the coordination and support of programmes on equality in the labour market, through a tangible promotion of women's projects and advice institutions, but also through various measures against the social disadvantage of women, especially through the participation in the consolidation and further development of structures for the prevention of violence and for the protection of victims. I am very, very grateful to our Minister, Mrs Fekter, too, because in her The area is the prevention advisory board, which has at least €437,000 available for 2011, this year, in 2010, it was only €29 000. Why is that so important to me? – Because we simply need funds in this area, we need financial resources that need to be made available, because the intervention agencies and advisory bodies are an essential factor in helping to calm the situation. Considering that in 2010 alone, from January to September of this year, 238 children between six and ten years of age and 677 children aged ten to 14 years of age have become victims of violence, and considering that in 2010, to this day, 180,000 women are out of work House had to take place in order to be safe, of women who have sought protection from their own family members in these facilities, then it is quite clear that this budget approach is a real and more important one. I am therefore also very grateful that no cuts have been made.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7680	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7701	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In addition to the fact that last Sunday, Chancellor Faymann demonstrated in the “press hour” that he wanted to save in the administration, but in no way in the education or in the teachers and in the executive, I can only say: He probably did not know the framework of the deteriorations recorded in this budget, or he deliberately kept them to the people. There is a whole set of deteriorations which the public service has to suffer through this budget, such as the drastic increase in the age of retirement or, for example, the deterioration in the time of accounting, the pre-retirement period. So this is about radical cuts that meet not only the administration, but every official, every administrative staff member in the public service – and of course all teachers and all police officers in our country. However, a particular loser in this budget is, and this is clearly stated, above all the executive. In addition to the general deterioration, their staff also suffer numerous occupational disadvantages. I am thinking here of the cuts in travel fees, but also of the restrictions on the disbursement of allocation fees and – and this is a special manko, a special disadvantage for this professional group – the replacement of the § 83b salary law. This is the legal protection insurance for executive officials, a provision which at the time was included under the FPÖ government at the initiative of my group, the FPÖ, in this service law programme and which is being rescinded here, which makes our police officers more or less the free will of arbitrary accusations on the part of the Federal Government. This budget clearly shows something else: Finally, there is a need for professional service regulations which clearly and clearly define the requirements and tasks of the individual professional groups in the public service. It has been announced to teachers for a long time, but not yet implemented. But I think that other professional groups, especially those of the executive, but also of the military, are affected. For this reason, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is time to finally implement not only the long-needed service regulations for teachers, but also the executive's long-standing executive right or the military service law that is urgently required by the German army. You could thus prove far-reaching, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, with the budget presented you have not done so – very much to the shame of the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7768	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7829	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7850	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear women People's lawyers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr. Volksanwalt! The European Parliament has proved far-reaching by appointing two women as popular lawyers. The Quotenmann is really also a wonderful popular lawyer, but there are just two women and a male popular lawyer. What is also to be noticed – I really liked it with the budget, and so I imagine Gender Mainstreaming – is that the public prosecutorship is very well equipped with a lot of women in its department. She does a good job, and that also testifies to and for quality. Thank you so much for that too! But now to my main concern, this is the chapter on women's policy. It has already been mentioned here that this budget has not been reduced, despite savings budgets. That's good and important and right. If – Mrs Schittenhelm has already mentioned it – as important institutions as centres of violence continue to be promoted to the same extent – and we know that every fifth woman is affected by violence and often also suffers from children – then that is good, then it is important. When we first hear news that the famous Gender Pay Gap, the differences between male and female wages are going back for the first time, then, I think, this has to do with the fact that the National Action Plan is fairly slow. That we can then pass a law in January, where it is about something like income transparency, also this is an important additional measure to get where we want to go, and that is to increase gender equality, also in the area of income. That this budget can now create framework contracts that go over three years, which is also important for the work of the women's advisory bodies, for the girls' advisory bodies, also in rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Mr Hörl knows exactly how important this is and how often we need to support the countries, because the funding here may often not be as much as we would like it to be, for example in Tyrol, Mr Hörl. And on this point, Gender Budgeting: Gender budgeting, already enshrined in the Constitution in 2009, means that we have to take the appropriate measures so that in 2013 we can understand accordingly not only at federal level, but also at national and local level that funds for women, for gender equality, are spent accordingly. That too, I believe, is a very important and necessary goal and concern that we are pursuing here. We still have a lot to do in women's policy, but we are on the right track. And that was not saved here, that's a good and right approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7905	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7926	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Colleagues! Dear listeners! You can't see from the back seat that people have endured with us for so long. Dear People's Lawyers! Mr President. I don't know if I should say right now, nice that you appeared here at this late hour, or, at that early hour. But that's probably a question of whether you've been sitting here for a long time or perhaps already slept in between. I am particularly pleased about the composition of this bank now, because there are certainly actors here on the topics to which I would like to speak briefly. [[the speaker refers to the Intergovernmental Bank]] On the one hand, these are the national lawyers, who are an important aid body of the National Council, but above all an important institution for the citizens, where for us as parliamentarians, however, it is always worth noting that the numerous reports we receive and also the numerous legislative proposals should be for us to make legislative changes here. Unfortunately, we have to say – I have no percentages in mind now, you probably know much better – that in all the reports I have read so far, a rather bad witness is being given to the National Council when it comes to whether the legislative proposals have been implemented. I recall, for example, the Maintenance Advancement Act and many other problems that you repeatedly put forward in each report, but it always comes back to the fact that no changes are being made here. Similarly, I think the Court of Auditors is dealing with this: major issue of administrative reform. There you are almost the personified admonishing conscience, quite publicly. You have just recently presented an updated list of the areas in which you are working, Mr President. There is then the category Task, Problem Analysis, Experts, Preparation Body, Final Report, Political Decision. And if you look at these columns, you can see that task, problem analysis, experts, preparatory body and final report are done in almost all areas, the political decision in only two areas of numerous. In other words, the government is too sparse here, even here the majority in this House is stupendous. And we don't need to talk about that anymore, we all know: The administrative reform does not really want to be implemented. The fact that the Minister of Women is sitting here is a matter for the Constitutional Court. We have appointed a new member of the Constitutional Court, a man – at the previous meeting, I think, it was – and thus again lowered the already catastrophic proportion of women in the Constitutional Court. It's 21.4 percent now. We discussed at the time in the debate, but also, so to speak, behind the scenes, that such an order process, as it happened, should not happen again. I remind you: Of those, I think, 18 candidates have applied for only three women, and one of these three women has withdrawn the candidate. That means, in the end, two women were elected. There is already a need to think about why it is so that women in Austria – and there are many of them who are competent here – do not seek this office. [[Abg. May. Worm: Because there are too few women before that!]] That's one of the problems. There you go. You are right, Mrs Colleague, that it is of course difficult, in advance, in science and in research, for women to take a foothold here and then take the appropriate positions. They would have been, but they would have to be suggested from party-political considerations – that is to say, that the election would not fall on them, so that they would not be able to make an application, or then withdraw it in the last minute. In the Committee we have also discussed the reform of administrative jurisdiction, where a debate is about to take place in the Constitutional Court, and I hope, Secretary of State Ostermayer, that this is a programme where the Federal Government is not going to kneel before the countries, but where you are actually going through the very sensible reforms you have already presented in March of this year in negotiations with the countries. I appeal to you not to go to the knees in front of the countries, but to make nails with heads. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7969	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e7990	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The women's budget is 0.13 promille from the total budget, and with this budget one can actually equal the results and solutions of women's policy in Austria, because they are also moving in the promille sector, ladies and gentlemen. It should be noted that the women's budget has not been shortened. However, there is not much to cut here either. Women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. We've heard about this on a number of occasions, and that's also part of the government's programme. All we have to do is offer solutions, and here is your job, Mrs. Minister, to work out solutions and offer solutions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Solutions, ladies and gentlemen, that make everyday life easier for women, solutions that ensure that services are also rewarded and recognised accordingly, solutions to set the course for the future. The issue of violence has already been discussed today. I think it is particularly important in the self-confidence promotion of the woman, to promote this self-confidence also with self-defense courses, because in the event of an emergency a woman can also defend herself if she has a corresponding self-confidence, and the self-confidence also has a positive effect on salary negotiations. Developing child care offers, making them more flexible, also includes freedom of design respectfully the freedom of choice of the families that they either care for their child at home or just give it to a child care facility. Another solution for us would be the recognition of unpaid family work. Karenz, child training and family care are expected to be included in the future salary classification and account for women and thus lead to better pay. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we are already on the payoff, I would like to encourage how we have done this often, to abolish the amount of money we pay for child care, and, Mrs. Minister, you yourself have called for this in recent months and weeks, to introduce a legal minimum wage of €1,300 gross, which is really € 1,000 net. With the existing budget, Mrs Minister, you don't have a lot of room to play, that's right, but I would like to call on you to use the existing money wisely and properly. I can only remind you that the subsidies for the overcrowded women's houses amount to just €7,300. [[Call to the SPÖ: This is country!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] – No, with 7 300 €, 16 women’s houses are supported by the federal government in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Worm: This is without the cost for the employees!]] But in 2010 for campaigns, for ads €706 398 were spent, my dear ladies and gentlemen. € 706 398 for ads, for campaigns! I'm sure women's houses would have had more of it here if they had been used there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For women 50 plus who are mentioned in the Government Convention and for whom you wanted to do something – read exactly on page 151 – there is no money. Nothing is foreseen here in the budget estimate. Instead, a award ceremony for gender-neutral advertising will take place in 2011. The fact that this will not be free can be assumed, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, my appeal to She, Mrs Minister: Put the money available to you properly and meaningfully! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8070	Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8091	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! 4.3 million women are to be represented, I believe, one thing that concerns us all, one that concerns all sectors – the word cross-sectional matter has already fallen – that is to say, women's policy is every department and should also be every and every Member of this House. That is, if previously smiled or even laughed at terms that have fallen, such as gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting, i.e. methods and strategies to achieve an active gender equality policy, or if here is whitished and shaved, if the word women falls, then I think that the exceptions that are actually not in this House at all and should not be spread in this sense at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that speaks for itself, I think, if some are of this opinion. [[Abg. May. Worm: (in the direction of the FPÖ delegates) This is puberty! You're a puberty!]] I am also glad – as the previous speaker has already said – that the comparatively small budget could remain the same, but as mentioned earlier, it is up to all of us to contribute to meeting the tasks and challenges of the government programme, and I believe that with the decisions today, a lot has already been achieved. Of course, women's policy is more than just seeing the National Action Plan gradually implemented step by step. It is also important to see together that we establish women in leadership positions that women can press into the bosses' days, that women earn the same amount for the same work, that women and men are able to reconcile work and private life well, and so on and so on. It is also a bit deficient to keep track of shortcomings and to make little or no counter-proposals. I invite everyone who has spoken and perhaps is still speaking, to work with me to ensure that we also live equality in Austria and not just talk about it and then do not do anything. To the public service two or three more sentences. Of course, I am pleased that all of you today, with the budget accompanying laws, have agreed to our moderate salary clearance and also the new service law, which will ultimately bring to €100 million in savings by 2014. I would therefore like to thank all those who have negotiated with me very much the social partners, the Public Service Trade Union, but also, in this sense, all the employees, employees of the public service in general. It is up to the 132 000 who are very likely to face many tasks here. Although they may have many reliefs, they have the same or more to do with fewer employees because we ultimately save well over 2,000 planned jobs. Finally, I would like to thank everyone very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8148	Mr Zanger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8169	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, if, in a debate about the Supreme institutions of twelve speakers, seven talk about women, we know who the top organs are in the state of Austria. And that's something that I'm very excited about. You know me, Mrs Wurm, as a supporter and supporter of women, especially when it comes to the woman as a mother and the position of the woman as a mother. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here we shall make a small correction to Mr Wittmann, who has spoken of a savings package. That's wrong! It is clearly a load package, a load package that is at the expense of families, precisely those that we need most in the state, which we should actually promote in view of the dramatic demographic developments we have and which we should not draw the money out of our pockets. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now really to the Supreme Institutions, specifically to the Court of Auditors: The Court of Auditors has recently experienced an extension of its audit competence by reducing the limit from which the Court of Auditors can examine communities to 10,000 inhabitants. The Court of Auditors can really be seen as an example, especially when it comes to the fact that it has not already occupied 11 planning posts and has, so to speak, reserved them. He is really an institution that can be seen as an example for itself, and I hope that this will remain the case in the future. General: A control body should show more savings potential than it costs itself. This is quite clearly the case here. We are happy and proud that we have a Court of Auditors in this form, and I am already very excited about the Peers report which you, Mr President, will be presenting to us shortly, I believe. I am convinced that this will be an excellent witness for you and your employees, and I congratulate you now. I have one more motion for a resolution here, because it is about developing the examinations as well. In concrete terms, if the State assumes liability, those institutions for which the State is right can be examined. I shall now make this request: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to submit a government template containing the Court of Auditors’ extension of its auditing powers for companies receiving State support in the form of financial grants or acceptance of liability.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8235	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8284	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8305	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just a small thing, actually a detail, but it's not quite It's important. I also tried to address it in committee, but unfortunately there was no budgetary member of the government there. I would therefore like to add it now. Austria signed the UN Anti-Folter Convention in 1987. Such a convention has only one meaning, if there are test mechanisms, so if the institutions that stop people against their will are checked regularly to see if such torture occurs. Therefore, since 2006, there has also been a so-called Additional Protocol, which provides precisely such testing and inspection mechanisms. Austria has also agreed with the Government Convention to set up such mechanisms here, and this should and should be established at the public prosecutor's office – clearly on the same line, across all parties. Only: There's nothing in the budget! That's what I'm asking myself: Why not? It may not be a big deal; it may be a few hundred thousand euros. But it is all better to budget such a thing, and at the end of the day the money is left if it has not been realized than not to budget it and then to say that we have not budgeted it, so we can't realize torture review mechanisms, or not to budget it and to end up over the budget. Therefore, if one had the intention to do so, one would have had it. The same applies also to the expansions that we have repeatedly discussed in the public prosecutor's examination skills towards distributed administrative institutions of the street, museums, universities, railways and so on. I believe that the population would have a great interest in this expansion, not only for legal reasons, but also for economic, so budgetary reasons. I just need to remember, for example, that the BIG has set up cell phone masts in schools. This is not only right for the students, but also for the parents, so – that is known – something like this must also be checked and can be objected to. In the end, it is also about money when these mobile masts are reassembled. However, there is nothing budgeted for this, and I am therefore wondering whether this extension is at all intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8351	Mr Windholz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8372	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Court of Auditors and public prosecutors are now with us. That kind of fits in with what has been presented to us in the budget. There are many who say: This is not even constitutional; late template! And it's about many areas that are hit massively, especially the poorest. The functioning of the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate is exemplary, and I come to speak first of all on the legitimate suggestions of the Public Procuratorate. You'll certainly remember all of them: Care money – what not everything was promised! There are good proposals, but this budget will not be implemented. The exact opposite is executed: There will be a deterioration for many! Or to the Court of Auditors: How many times have we debated an extension of testing competence here! I call it a keyword: Skylink. What a theatre it was with How long did you want to prevent this from happening? Thank God this test has taken place, with the well-known result. Both institutions know: In contrast to this federal government, you are on the side of the citizen, and for that we can really thank ourselves here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] High regard for Mr Molterer! As a representative of a government party, Mr Molterer has spoken critically about an area here. I already have the impression: The worse the survey values, the more massive the ad campaigns are. In times when everyone is thrown out, that is unacceptable! Mr Molterer, you certainly have us on your side if the spirit of a five-party request is not taken into account that legal regulations are being introduced here. It would have been a good thing if you had brought this into line with these budget laws. What you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, is a mockery for all those who are being thrown out! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can still address the public service a little bit, as the competent minister is famous here for the post savings et cetera. In the public service there are many, many service providers, who have expected themselves in such a situation that there is finally a new service right and also a new remuneration right. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer.]] – Yes, yes, you have announced this x-time – nothing of it can be seen! I'll tell you: Trust yourself once to equip federal, state and municipal staff with a right! Create incentives to improve performance within the system. Or, if we address the executive, make additional arrangements here for the special requirements in this service! I am thinking here of others exercising command and force. They have all remained guilty in this area, and it is best to read this in the field of teachers. This school debate has been conducted with x announcements; it is left that there may be a separate right of service for teachers. You can't even agree with your coalition partner on who's supposed to get the sovereignty, whether it's the covenant, whether it's the country. The current mixing system is the worst thing there is. And if you praise the Public Service Union: She's in my eyes responsible for permanent blocking. Trade union president Neugebauer has actually spoken out how he sees things. I'm telling you whether it's the federal government or the country, it's gonna get better anyway. Only Neugebauer sees this differently, he tells you: The best thing is, it's all the way it is. – This is certainly the worst way. The budget you have presented is anything but done to sing praises here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8457	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8479	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Prior to the women's budget: Yes, it is really positive to assess that this female budget with 10.115 million almost no cuts had to be experienced. But for me, the current list in the budget and the designation is misleading. This has actually changed in the list of items. According to the proposal, approximately € 5.3 million is available for the promotion of intervention and violence centres. Unfortunately, what is not possible is to redefine the intervention agency for women and girls affected by forced marriage. Unfortunately, we do not have this in the budget, and this cannot be done from these resources either. This is very sad because we know that, especially in the area of forced marriages, we will be faced with ever greater problems in the near future. These already exist, and they will grow. However, problems exist not only with the forced marriages or with the intervention agency that does not come, but also with institutions such as women's homes where co-financing, especially in some federal states, does not work. The basic funding of the women's houses falls in principle into the competence of the countries, the federal government, the Federal Ministry of Women, only additional funding is granted. Mr Schenk has already mentioned this. This is, of course, a major problem, and long-term promotion agreements would be very important in this area. Another criticism is the level of support. If you consider – even here I can only underline the words of my colleague, Mr. Donk – how many resources are made available for advertising and campaigns, but the women's houses and the women's intervention agencies are not served, then this is very, very sad. The federal funding for women's homes must finally be put on a solid basis. We therefore also want to identify the needs of women's homes and, if they need additional resources, to make them available to them. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8539	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8590	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8612	Madam President. I hope that the Members who are being photographed here will remain in the National Council in the future and will not be threatened with deportations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are we all getting a cartel attached?]] So let's see what the Federal Minister is photographing here! But actually, I wanted to talk to press promotion. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, Mr Brosz, I wouldn't have photographed you!]] – Not me, anyway; there are others there to photograph. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... in the EKIS inside!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who knows what they do with it?]] Mr Ostermayer, if you point out that the budget is such that it is difficult to understand, at least in part, is true as far as press promotion is concerned. There it says that the press promotion in the area of sales promotion is reduced by about €1.5 million. In the meantime, you have also provided the data that some of it is covered by the resolution of deposits. The fact is that there will be a significant reduction in press promotion in the next few years. I wonder how you'll do that. If the Fund is cleared and there is nothing left to move, you will have to make the funds available again somehow. – Photographer noises in the background are somehow quite original. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: In the foreground too!]] [[Further calls.]] Maybe we'll do the photo actions here and then we'll go on. The fact is that there's a budget hole here, and you'll have to cover it sometime. The money, which is not inside now, then, when the fund is empty, has to come back, and how easy that should be in times of budget scarcity, I look at it once it is so far. On the other hand, the fact is that the budget for advertising expenditure of the Federal Chancellery has been significantly increased by looking at the budget figures. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: That's wrong!]] That's from the old clothes collection. When you take the budget here and there's inside: 3 million € budget last year and now 3.9 million € budget, then you can tell me three times that this is wrong. The fact is, the budget figures give this. Whether you sum up any budgets, the budget figures are simple and simply not clear, that is not recorded there either. Just to present it differently: Even if that were the case, I still ask you: If it were not more intelligent to go here and say that we did not shorten women, we did not cut down on minorities, would we also refrain from reducing press promotion, and do we take the amount that we need there from the advertising expenditure and the advertising expenditure of the Federal Chancellor's Office? This would mean that there is a right to press promotion, that the media can also rely on the money they get, and not depend on whether in certain newspapers – let us say this very carefully – the German Chancellor is clearly more inclined to take money into his hands and advertise it there, and in other newspapers – and that was actually the problem of media policy Faymann in recent years – simply says that I am not there simply and simply not, because they seem to have a report that does not really benefit him. You know what the parties are doing, they are free. If you only want to advertise as SPÖ in the “Kronen Zeitung”, you can only advertise it in “Austria”. But as the Federal Chancellor, who is also responsible for providing information work that should somehow benefit the whole country, if it is already an information that you can somehow advertise, there is something else, that really has a claim that you do not make an additional media policy by taking out certain media and promoting them and giving nothing to others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Vice-Chanceller Pröll has also turned on advertisements with which we were not really happy, these baby listings and similar things that were not very credible, but he has at least very comprehensively promoted the newspapers, and one has not been able to say that he promotes certain and others not. I would also have been right if we were generally going to get more legal claims and less advertising expenditure, but at least there is no way to say that there has been a clear preference for individual media. This is something that we have been sending to Federal Chancellor Faymann for years, and we will continue to be very careful in future to see whether there is a change in the German Chancellor's transparency and advertising policy. I would really recommend this because it is unworthy of a media policy in a developed democracy to try to influence media in the form of advertisements in reporting. And this allegation is to make Werner Faymann.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8730	There are no more words to me about this part of the division. The discussions on these topics have thus ended. [[01:27:10]] UG 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8756	We shall now come to the negotiation of Division 11: Inside. Mr Mayerhofer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8780	From behind? [[Behind the speaker is photographed.]] I hope she has a broad lens, the Minister. – Thank you, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We cannot agree with this budget, especially when it comes to the interests of the interior. As you can see, the effort to do so is greatly reduced, without considering that in the near future – I fear, also in Austria – a distribution struggle will take place, which will, of course, not only play democratically in the municipal offices, but will be carried out on the road, as one sees it clearly, see Stockholm, Greece or recently Rome. No precautions have been taken in this respect. The costs were greatly reduced. The working conditions for the police are getting worse from day to day. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] - Yes, I can give you some proof for that. They will require maximum availability according to the pattern of a Billa shelf caretaker, and this in case of minimal social security, for example, in the case of a longer-term illness. One thing must also be considered and noted: If one has to visit the PIs and find out in collegial discussions that, for example, things that are pictured in the budget and which are publicly claimed by the Minister, such as that overtime is not saved, are not so, but that every PI has the task of saving additional services, which actually means less security – again to the detriment of citizens – then one has to ask the question: Does the Minister of State say anything different from what is actually happening? Are Mr. Landes Police Commanders and the General Majors doing something that is not expressly applied to them? It also raises the question: Does a leadership corps, even though the political mission goes in a different direction? I was on the PIs, Mrs Minister, especially in the Mostviertel, and I will gradually be able to see it on every PI that it is the way I am now saying it: No overtime will be saved in order to continue to provide the citizen with security as a consideration for its tax performance. Of course, a sensible use of the funds is also a concern of the opposition. This is just as important as fulfilling the legal orders of the security executive and the judicial apparatus. This would make me again at the Kampusch case. If, in the course of the Kampusch investigations, Dr. Rzezut's absolutely credible statements show that thousands of hours of investigation work for the cat is obviously not, because for other reasons, executives in the judicial system do not feel like letting police investigation work and the police investigation substrate into further targeted measures, then why, according to Dr. Rzeszut, the three members of the security executive, who have worked for months in the evaluation commission and have been funding a lot of work there, were sent home. This too is a pitiful circumstance. So not only am I saying that these unustious conditions and circumstances about the Kampusch case are a tax waste of the special class. Such events cost the country so much prestige and above all much motivation of police officers. These circumstances need to be clarified as quickly as possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, there is a request to the Mrs Minister, namely to stand behind the police. Police need to hold back from the politicians! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] If there is a hairy act of office in Austria and some journalists ask embarrassing questions, don't mind! Put yourself behind our brave and discreet, excellent criminal officials and our uniformed forces! You deserved it. As we want to improve the income situation of our youngest colleagues, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then you might be able to save yourself a very expensive promotion as it takes place in the media.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8894	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8952	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e8973	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Mayerhofer, I have to tell you one thing: You certainly proved with your speech that you didn't look at the budget at all. You have no idea what is in the budget, because security is not at all saved in this budget, you have to express it clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] - That's one point. One thing has to be clear to us – and if you had looked at the budget, you would have seen it too – that the budget has been increased by €400 million since 2004 to 2011 and that there is additional € 115 million for security in Austria by 2014. So security will not be saved at all, there will also be increasing budget figures in the next few years. This has now been made clear and clear, and I would like to tell you that you have not looked at the budget at all. That's a fact once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You are...!]] We currently have an increase of 18.2 million € in the personnel sector. We have 287 million € available for the material effort. This effort includes, of course, the Cobra, that is, the special units, and the Federal Criminal Office. We have also taken measures in the prevention of victims, and there are also appropriate means in the prevention. So it is really an excellent budget, which has been negotiated by the Federal Minister and which will guarantee high-quality police work in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this budget it is also possible to continue the modernisation, both in the fleet and, of course, in the technical facilities. The services will also be modernized by €10 million next year. The money will be used for the renovation or renewal of services. In general, asylum and tourism will certainly be in such a way that the new Federal Office for Asylum and Migration will speed up the process. We have already seen that we are very good on the road, because we have achieved a savings of € 18 million in this area. This money, this savings has been very important because we can now use it differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's nowhere in the budget!]] So we have a very good internal budget for 2011. In the security field, there are no savings measures, quite the contrary, there is additional money being used, and we can be really happy and proud that the high quality of security will continue to be guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9058	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9079	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad that some of the government's parties are still among us in the budget aftersituation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's what you're saying?]] Let me briefly tell you from the Committee on Budgets: I allowed myself to ask the Minister of the Interior in the Committee on Budgets – it was not the most difficult question –: Tell me, how many criminal officers are there in this Republic? You know how many criminals there are. How many criminal officers do you have to be able to prosecute the criminals properly? Minister of Interior's reply: Well, in the Federal Criminal Office we have so 800 plus, and in the countries we have, thumbs times pi, even a few hundred, I think 250. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't save such a fool!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So, I wrote that exactly, and others heard it too. I then asked for the exact figures. The 250 were then more than 2 500. This is not a success report of the Minister of the Interior sitting behind me, but I then thought: What is going on, what is the interest of an interior minister who does not even know nearly, does not even have a diffuse idea of how many criminal officials she has in her place? [[Abg. Kößl makes the window wiper move]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You have slept the guard reform!]] Well, if you don't know how many people you have, you don't know what you can do either. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: There is no...! You've been sleeping the guard reform!]] First: Please, Mrs Federal Minister, be patient. They are behind me, not like in the Austrian People's Party, but in Parliament. You can speak later. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Secondly, Once you know how many criminal officials you have – that would be an important prerequisite – you could think about how to give them a fair chance to fight the growing crime in this Republic. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, she's sinking! She's not growing, she's falling by 10 percent!]] Stop singing behind me, because your singing doesn't mean that crime's going down! [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] So we're talking about how the criminal officers get a chance to fight the crime. I take an important example: the vending of machines. In Vienna, and at least you will know that, the criminal police point out to us that automatic gambling in procurement crime is already a bigger problem than drug addiction. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] So you have to give the officials support and a fair chance. What does the Federal Government do? – It submits a draft law to this National Council, which includes ten times the use of automatic casinos and one game per second is possible. That is, for the first time... – you are right, Mr. Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... but the Financial Committee is responsible!]] We negotiated it in the Financial Committee. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – I am talking about Parliament in its overall responsibility. Young people can play 36 000 € in an hour. I went to Vienna's criminal police and asked her: Yes, how do you want to fight the crime, the procurement crime in this area, if you leave young people, especially those of difficult social conditions with little training and few professional opportunities, these automatic games salons and organized gambling? The answer of the criminals was: If we do not receive any support from the legislation and the Federal Government, we will probably have lost this fight and this dispute. Mrs. Interior Minister, I haven't even heard from you that you were standing on the side of the criminal police in this important debate. They, like all other members of the government, have agreed to a law in the Council of Ministers, which you knew would promote crime in Austria. A minister of the Interior, who supports her officials and really wants to fight serious crime, should never do this! Why Have You did that? Why did you choose the automatic mafia and the security interests? – Because there are companies like Novomatic and other money for SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Abg. New builder: naughtiness!]] The security policy in this Republic can be purchased, and it will be purchased – via party donations, about purchased Members, about advertisements in the “New Free News ” newspaper. - Of course! If neither the Interior Minister nor SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ protect people from this form of politically tolerated crime, then the best criminal police in the world has no chance either. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] This is our main allegation, Mrs. Innenminister: that at the end of the day you are abandoning the executive – and we have very good officials in the criminal police – in their fight against crime, that the interests of your party, from party funding to the ruling party book in the Interior Ministry, are more important to you than the security of people. [[Abg. New builder: Send evidence!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] As long as the security of the Austrian People's Party is more important to an Interior Minister as long as it is the security of the Austrians, this security policy will not be possible for so long. [[Call the ÖVP: But believe that only you!]] This is an essential reason why we naturally reject this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9297	The next item is the speech by Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9318	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Both debates – both those of Mr Pilz and Mr Mayerhofer – have again shown that it is good that the Austrian Federal Government is responsible for security policy in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: So throw the two into a pot...!]] If you define the budget on the fact that there could be social unrest in Europe and there is no provision for it in Austria, I think you have obviously not taken good care of the budget debates today. I think Austria is very good. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] To define the Austrian security policy and the fight against crime that gambling law and Novomatic are responsible for it, I also think that it is a very far-reaching issue. Therefore, I insist that one of the priorities of this federal government in its political work is also internal security and therefore the core area – the fight against crime and the guarantee of public security – is in good hands in Austria. This budget also showed that not everywhere is saved, but where it is necessary – you think about training, additional staff, equipment and much more – money is provided for the fight against crime. In my opinion, this is the right way, and I believe that we can really agree in this area too, because it is a good budget. Only by this means is it ensured that Austrian executive officials do excellent work for the safety of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9359	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9380	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! On one point, I must give Mr Pilz the right thing, as far as this Minister's lack of understanding is concerned. [[Call to the ÖVP:... that's full moon!]] It really has little idea, but in the case of security policy, it has, in any case, raised the idealessness on the very principle, as has been pointed out in the Committee on the Interior. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] Federal Minister Fekter wanted to explain to us as the only minister through all the committees that a budget is actually only a reference work for ministers – that is interesting, that she actually gave of herself in the committee literally – because she did not know the figures and did not know most otherwise. That's interesting! [[Interim calls at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Minister Fekter is probably also the only politician – or at least one of the few in this country – who is still talking about declining crime. This takes place in their brochures, in their organized statistics, but not in the public, not in reality, because crime continues to rise. And this budget does nothing at all, Mr Kößl. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Strutz.]] It also does nothing if you from the ÖVP are speaking to this minister and this government here, but have no idea at all as to police posts, on decoding police stations, which you apparently do not know at all. That's the truth! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] You are so far away from reality! Just keep going, stay the beautiful speaker of the government! We're more likely to raise the abuses. Mrs Minister, this budget is not only a very defensive approach – you can already say, okay, it is not much being shortened – nor is it offensively combating crime. [[Call the ÖVP:... police posts!]] What Mrs Fekter does not do at all – and she has not done so in committee – are calculations of additional executives, because they are all wrong by the bank. [[Abg. Amon:... but lupenrein!]] It's going back and forward not with your promised 1000 cops anymore! Mr Amon is sitting in the first row. They were the ones who promised 300 officials a few days before the Styrian country election in a broadcast. – There is not one single one left to this day! That was an empty promise, because it's not going out in the back and in the front! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In reality, you're dizzying people. But what was interesting: The Minister of Finance has announced a great deal in his budget speech – and all, Mr Kößl, too, have said this: There is now a Federal Office for Migration and Asylum. In the Committee, we asked the Minister what this will be like. It has explained that by the middle of next year the basic steps will be taken, which will be set up and implemented. She has explained to us for a long time what will come now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] That's what we said: Mrs Minister, where is this in the budget, this Federal Office for Migration and Asylum? – She had no answer anymore, because nothing stands in there! They announce something that is not budgeted, and keep people fooled. That's actually what you're doing here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] There is nothing in the budget, there is no budgetary provision! There is no Federal Office for Migration and Asylum, because if that were the case, then there would be zero tariffs, free of charge – and that does not affect you at all, Mr Kößl, nor you, Mrs Fekter! That's why we're calling for it. It's on: Do something against the high level of crime! Don't keep proclaiming the March of dwindling crime, because that just isn't true, but do it. You have something against crime and make sure we get more executive officials too! What's wrong, too, Mrs Minister – it's not Your budget area, but it falls into your political field – is that social assistance is paid to terrorists in this country. That should also be said. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This has happened, and this has been noted when one made here a sleeper, who has lived through years of tax money, of social assistance – and the government and the minister are watching it. That's a real scandal, and that's why you should take care of yourself! This is your job, and not nice words and good words, as Mr Kößl is doing here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9502	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9523	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kößl, Mr Mayerhofer, to say that he had not dealt with the budget, is a misappropriation of a Member of this House, which is absolutely to be rejected. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Mr Fazekas, if you think it is not acceptable to go back from political events in other countries to possible police operations in your own country, then I am glad that I am not living in this world in which you are obviously at home, namely, security police, because it is a serious mistake not to draw conclusions to domestic policy and to domestic security. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] All in all, I can only say that the praises of the representatives of the two government parties are rather embarrassing and more dangerous threat to our executive officials, who, despite the adverse conditions offered to them by the Ministry of the Interior, are actually doing excellent work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In fact, I am already on the issue of the present budget, which is inappropriate to meet the security police challenges of the future. Our executive really has nothing to laugh at, because this budget unfortunately passes away from reality. I can remind you that we are living at a time when the executive of overtime services is formally exploding, because too many missions by too few officials can no longer be guaranteed and secured. [[Abg. Amon:... colleagues don't want to pay overtime!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] We also have the situation that due to the increasing ageing in the executive sector, we are likely to suffer a staff collapse by 2020. These figures were not I invented, but this says an expertise of the Federal Chancellery from 2007 for all professional groups in the public service, i.e. also for the executive. Despite these upcoming dramatic developments in personnel, we are marching eye-catching into the security police collapses because we can't even ensure that the personnel leave is compensated by 2013. Madam Minister of the Interior, I can remind you – and I am of the same opinion as Mr Westenthaler, who has already mentioned this – that you have also promised 1,000 training places per year in the government programme and 200 police officers. What do we say about this budget? – Complete 134 planning sites in addition! These are 66 planning places less than you promised us; I do not want to speak here about the conditions in the material effort, in terms of which much has been promised, but which has not been complied with. I therefore call for more planning posts for our executives so that we can ensure the safety of our people, and also for a fair salary for this latent extra burden on our police officers, who have to perform a particularly difficult and tiresome service on high-to-adventure posts. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can invite you, ladies and gentlemen, including the government parties, to support this request. The government has often promised a so-called multi-burden or constituency allowance, but until now nothing has happened. I think that's a good approach to taking a new start. Give yourself a back! Our police do excellent work, despite the adverse circumstances offered by this Federal Government. Let us give them the necessary framework conditions which unfortunately do not give them this budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9615	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9673	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9694	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The ÖVP has been in the Federal Government for 24 years now. For ten years, ÖVP has been acting as the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of the Interior, and the ÖVP has been sleeping for decades on migration and integration policies. [[Call:That's even better]] Recently, the ÖVP has waken up and found out, oye, it needs integration, there are challenges, there are also potentials that would actually be used, oye, actually you should do something! Then a so-called National Action Plan for the integration of the sleeves, with hundreds of measures, but with zero budgets, has been pseudo-shattered. The ÖVP is now issuing a declaration of bankruptcy – a further declaration of bankruptcy – in this area by once again shortening the budget for integration measures, which was so low in any case – even in a very, very small way in Europe. The ÖVP is responsible for ensuring that the future theme of integration is fully driven to the wall. Ladies and gentlemen, if the challenges and problems continue to grow in the coming years, if the potentials of two or three-language young people who are growing up here in this country continue to fail if, in Austria, about 50 percent of foreign workers continue to work significantly below their qualifications and thus not only earn less, but also pay less taxes, then the ÖVP is responsible and, of course, also the coalition partner, the SPÖ. By the way, on the one question that was put into the room: Who says that? This is what August Gachter from the Institute of Higher Studies and the University of Vienna says. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – No, it’s not just incredible, but gouging Just go to the name August Gächter, go to the Institute for Higher Studies, then you will find this study by him where he proves it with numbers and evidence. You can then just look at that, then hopefully you won't say it's incredible anymore. I asked the Minister of the Interior in the Committee on Budgets how she would like to address the challenges facing her in the area of living together, if she continued to shorten the budget for integration measures. And the interesting answer she gave was: Well, then, NGOs come to the train for integration projects that bring more own resources. In good German this means that this is now being turned on to civil society. The NGOs are intended to collect the most appropriate donations in the population and to make these donations available in good time so that integration work can be done so that German courses can be offered so that training and training measures can be ensured for people living here. Ladies and gentlemen, we must slowly ask ourselves why we are actually paying taxes as citizens if this is not to be used for meaningful integration work. Why should we as citizens, on the one hand, pay taxes and continue to maintain and finance a community and, at the same time, donate to NGOs, to civil society organisations, so that state tasks, tasks of the municipalities, tasks of the federal states can be financed by these NGOs from donations? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What actually remains of our community? What is left of refugee care when more and more interpreter costs are saved? How does this Minister of the Interior, who supposedly wants to be a Minister of Human Rights, want to guarantee a fair asylum procedure if interpreters are missing in the asylum procedure? It should also be saved on interpreters. How do these Interior Ministers and the Federal Government intend to speed up asylum procedures if 25 percent of the staff of the Asylum Court are to be reduced by 2014? – These are questions where you owe us the answers. I say again: This budget is a declaration of bankruptcy in many areas, including in the area of integration and human rights. And you alone, the ÖVP and the SPÖ, then bear responsibility for the failure in these policy areas. We'll be You remember this on every occasion, because you are wasting the future of our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9744	Mrs Fekter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9765	After the Committee on Budgets, my House had 50 questions to answer within four days. Of course, we have delivered the answers to these 50 questions to Parliament without delay within four days. Among them was the question of how the National Action Plan for Integration is being promoted. But, Mrs. Korun, you probably haven't read this answer! You asked the question first, but then it was yours! Otherwise, you could not give as wrong things as you just did from the speaker's desk! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] In this written question we have broken down in detail that for the integration measures, more money is available for the National Action Plan, that is, €200 000, in the field of language and education, concrete €2.9 million, in the field of work and profession, €1.2 million, in the field of action rule of law and values €600 000, in the field of health, social affairs – and I am not the Minister of Health! – at least 100 000 €, in the field of action Intercultural dialogue 1.1 million €, in the field of sports and leisure activities 120 000 € – and I am not the Minister of Sports! We have informed you in writing in detail, and you stand out here and claim the exact opposite because you have not found it worth the effort to look at what we have sent you within a short time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies to interpreting costs. The interpretation costs are estimated at over €20 million. And today you have also decided by means of the budget accompanying law that interpretation services will also be made available to the Interior through the judicial body and the provision agency, namely the human resources provision agency of the judicial department. – Haven You didn't read this either, Mrs. Korun? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Otherwise, you could not give that nonsense of yourself! We will, of course, make the means to cover interpreting costs available together with the judicial body. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's already 2:00 a.m., and full moon is, I've heard. [[Call at the SPÖ:And the days are getting longer and longer!]] This will probably be due to the fact that colleagues Westenthal and Pilz have also given nonsense to themselves. [[Calls.]] Indeed, crime has not increased, but it has actually fallen significantly in 2010. Total crime has fallen by 10 percent, the number of single-family house breakdowns has fallen by 40.9%, the number of vehicle thefts has fallen by 51.9%, and the number of truck thefts has fallen by 72.53 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is Mitzi's fantasy country! Mitzi Sackbauer!]] If you stand out here and say that crime is increasing, then I must say that you have slept a little, Mr Westenthaler, because crime is really falling! We have succeeded in the police's actions, and I'm proud of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9878	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9899	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The Minister for the Interior is right that the crime rate is currently lower. This is because now some gangs have been caught that have driven their beings in Austria. But there are new ones, the trend is now on the rise again, and you have to counter them, Mrs Minister! That's how you have to do it right. Mr Kößl has rejoiced here about how great the budget for the Ministry of the Interior is. I'm right, it's certainly an advantage to other ministries that not much has been saved here, but – now it comes but, listen to me well! –: Not really big cracks have been made. You can remember: I spoke here a few months ago about saving the police's fleet. That's exactly what's happening now. The Off equipment goes back in this area, which is certainly saved in the wrong place. This weakens the operational capacity of the executive and does not strengthen it, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to return to these 1,000 officials who have been mentioned here over and over again: more than 1 000 officials in 2009 to 2013. That's supposed to mean, since 2009 we've got 200 more officials. We now have until 2011, so for the next year, 134 additional, that's a total of 334 officials in addition. The problem lies in the fact that too few training facilities are available to produce officials. But, and here I am now at the point, Mr Mayerhofer mentioned this earlier: A major problem is the overtime that still existing officials have to do, because too few officials are available. If I get an average of € 7 net as an executive officer for night services, weekend services and working day services per overtime, then I have to say that every cleaning woman receives at least €10. That's where I have to ask: What is this government worth police work, ladies and gentlemen? [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, if you want to explain to me in the committee that the officials are volunteering these overtimes, I can only say the following: Yes, there are a certain percentage of officials who voluntarily overtime, many of them. But these people are forced to do so for financial reasons! This is because the executive officials have a very low basic content and can only fatten it with appropriate overtimes and additional fees in order to ensure survival for them and their families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's the wrong way! If you want to do something right here – it's not just about you personally or at your place of business, it's also about other places in this government – then make sure that the officials have a decent salary, an all-inclusive salary, so that they don't have to do so many overtime hours and as in Germany and other countries can go to the service! However, you should not, as is more often the case, do 80, 90 or 100 hours a week to maintain the service. Then these officials are exhausted and therefore not properly operational. That's the wrong way! That's where it needs to be packed! Finally, I would like to say something: Mr Mayerhofer has previously made the request concerning young people. We have a big problem. If we don't invest properly, we won't get people. The fact is that someone who has completed a teaching and wants to become executive officials may also have to feed a family, of 900 € gross cannot live! That's the point that this fails. That's why You don't get a decent staff if you don't take money in your hands. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's where you have to invest in the future, Mrs. Minister. And I'll give you the tip: Go out, talk to the people, then see what's really happening! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e9975	Mr Neubauer came to speak. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10002	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Two days ago, something quite remarkable happened in Linz. S & D staff representatives of the police have turned to the public in a kind of aid cry, and there they are asking for exactly what we have often called for in the meetings of the Committee on the Interior, namely that the Minister of State Fekter finally fulfills her commitments to install 400 additional officials on the occasion of the last elections in Upper Austria, because the current stock in Upper Austria can no longer be found the result, ladies and gentlemen. And this is really remarkable, because that is also what Mr Plessl of the SPÖ presented here today in the early days, when his own colleagues in Linz reflect it. The SPÖ must finally think here when its own staff representatives in the Social Democracy in Linz cry out for help. It is too cheap for me to ignore this here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If, in an answer to a question, the Minister informs us that 173 officials are retired and 125 posts are re-occupied and that we have a minimum of 50 persons, Mrs Minister, then you cannot tell me with this account that everything is all right if You said at the time that 2011 service start will end this. This is a question of credibility, Mrs Minister, and here you, as the Minister for the Interior, are particularly required, as I mean. A second point, which is still my heart, I must also tell you and address it to you. I would like to know what a grotesque idea it was to use Italian carabinieri in Innsbruck on the Advent markets and to completely insecure the Tyrolean population. I would have liked to know whose snap idea that was. It is an act against the sovereignty of Austria and also a gross tastelessness when you think of the division of the country of Tyrol that you are just bringing Italian Carabinieri into the country to ensure order here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a community! It was precisely these Carabinieri who in the last decades have always made sure that in South Tyrol people were persecuted that traditions and customs were suppressed that people were tortured. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And now you're bringing these people to the country! Just last year, ladies and gentlemen, young people were tortured in the barracks in Merano. Here are the pictures of these tortures. [[The speaker keeps some photos up to date.]] These communities have been suppressed to this day and have not been clarified. This is a carabineer, as he was beating one of these 16-year-olds, ladies and gentlemen. [[on a photo]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also in place. That's the truth. And such people will bring you to Innsbruck to ensure justice and order here!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] People wonder what the next strike will be, whether or not Slovenian units in Klagenfurt should be responsible for law and order, what great things the EU still has in store, which you do not oppose. Mrs. Minister, this is really a scandal! I would ask you to refrain from such actions in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10078	There are no more words available to me on the sub-division of internal affairs. This is why this subject area has also been completed. [[02:13:34]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10104	We are now entering into the negotiation of Division 12: Outwards. Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10129	Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your appearance at this time of baptism. The meaningful actions of our... [[Abg. May. Worm: But, please, the minister looks very good! You don't have to comment on that!]] I thank you for appearing, I didn't comment. Whether he was in the fitness center or has worked in front of his desk so far, that's a second point. But the green colleagues made it possible for us to meet at such a later hour. Whether it makes sense for us to negotiate a chapter of such importance by quarter three now, whether it was useful that at a time when there might have been energy and attention in which there was still a dense crowd of spectators and journalists, we used four hours to make senseless nameless votes, that remains to be done. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Others have also asked for many changes!]] Mrs Colleagues, this remains the case. You'll judge that differently than I do. You will also judge some of what I am now saying differently from me. But it is. Nor will the Minister agree with me in everything. I'm sure of that, too. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] The Members of this House who have spoken about the chapter on the inside have revealed some wounds. They have shown that in Austria, at Weitem, everything is not so well ordered that at Weitem, we do not oversource the cash registers and that we cannot finance everything that the domestic citizens need. I would just like to remind you of our speeches, what Mr Neubauer said, but also Mr Hagen from the BZÖ, Herbert, Mayerhofer and so on. I looked at the list of colleagues who will talk about me. It guarantees that we will now hear that under this chapter, in particular the chapter on development cooperation, we will have to spend a lot of money wherever we come from. I'm excited. So far, I have only heard that the wealth of the richest 10 percent is to be taxed. Where this is to come from is also left behind. Let us take a closer look at the chapter together. It is not about things that benefit our domestic population, it is at least not about things that you directly benefit. If You will lose a passport abroad or if you are a foreigner and your passport expires and you do not want to invest the 90 € for a bill to come to Vienna every ten years, then you will have to visit a consulate within Europe, and you may benefit from the chapter. If you have the reputation and honor of Austria in mind and listen to the statements made by the Minister or by many other colleagues who explain to us the importance of the diplomatic service to our reputation, the importance of Austria's weight in the EU, and how the voting behaviour of the other countries is affected by this, you may have some of it. But a large part of the population will not feel and have anything of it, because we are moving in a kind of parallel society, which is widely replaced by what the average citizen thinks, notices and gets along. This is a parallel society that may even have certain similarities with the gender society, as she presented to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. It's also a society I call parallel. [[Abg. May. Worm: Gender society? That's a whole new expression!]] Mrs. Minister said that she represented 4.3 million women, as far as I remember correctly. I dare the thesis that she does not represent 4.3 million women, but perhaps 100 000 or 200 000 or 250 000 women, whom I would call radicals, if I were unattractive. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a big difference whether it is 4.3 million women or whether it is a small part of these women. All that believes of itself to represent the population, to act and to speak for the population, but only a minority represents, I call parallel society. And here in our equipment, too, we are not far away. Let us take the position of diplomatic staff alone. We have already represented this in the Committee. It is also within the European Union that diplomatic staff... Mrs Colleague, you can then get upset afterwards, now we're talking about diplomatic staff, and then we can talk about expressions again. [[in the direction of the Abg. May. Worm, just with Abg. May. Muttons Speak]] [[Abg. May. Worm: We talked about the “gener society ”!]] So even within the EU, which is a common economic area – although it is not a common economic government and thanks to God there is no tax regime – international diplomatic staff within this system are largely deprived of the sovereignty of the individual states. This concerns not only the widespread exemption from taxes and taxes, but also the exemption from administrative and administrative provisions up to the construction regulations. We believe that this is a point where every responsible minister and everyone who really acts as a people's representative and not as a member of a parallel society should sit down and at least ask the question: Do we need that? Does that make sense? And I think that at least a large part of us would come to the conclusion, it doesn't make sense. It is not clear that part of the population is acting only for old considerations and reasons according to completely different rules. To help develop, I will hear enough from my speakers. A comment only: If we are already driving back and shortening the funds, then I believe that we should at least use them in place and not for our own administration, as is unfortunately a very large part of it. Example ADA. That is what we have already discussed. The ADA was actually distributed from Section VII of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2003. The Division VII has 50, 60 employees, the ADA has 166 peaks, the Division VII mid-term 45. That means that this is a quadruple of the staff. We have heard that, although this staff stand has fallen from 166 in the meantime, I think 158 have fallen, but that is also significant. We have therefore prepared two proposals and have also submitted them which I can now read briefly. The first is: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Hübner and other Members The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs is invited to take all necessary measures to reduce the budget for the Austrian representative authorities abroad by one third, to reduce Austria’s contributions to international organisations by one third and to limit the ADA’s staffing status to a maximum of 50 jobs.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10261	The two applications have been properly submitted and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10362	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10383	High house! Deputies! I don't know exactly who lives in a parallel world. They clearly have the impression that the Austrians have nothing from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic service. Therefore, perhaps some small information about this. We really have one of the smallest ministries of international relations and European affairs in Europe, but a very efficient department and very efficient officials working there. We have 105 foreign offices, we have 1,400 employees. At least 130 000 individual cases of hardship are cared for and assistance is provided to Austrians abroad. We have over a million visitors on the homepage. Hundreds of foreign travel information is provided by our officials every day. In the year 300 000 to 400 000 visas are issued by this small and powerful resort. There are 40 000 passports or staff documents lost for Austrians abroad. More than 5,000 cultural events are held in the cultural forums and in the Austrian embassies in over 800 cities. We have 150 000 visitors to the Austrian libraries. And there are at least 500 000 Austrian citizens living abroad and being cared for by this place of business. Therefore: I think we can be proud of our diplomatic service. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Minister proves how little money can be handled very intelligently. I think we should recognize that together. A second point: It now tends to end the two-year membership of the UN Security Council. All in all, I think Austria and its representatives have cut off well. The ambassador and, of course, the minister who has been to New York eight times – not always noticed by the opposition, especially by the critical FPÖ – has actually done a very good job there with his team. There has been a meeting of the UN Security Council practically every day, and we have been very committed to some important priorities as a whole. These include the protection of the civilian population in armed conflicts, the strengthening of the rule of law, human rights, the protection of women, but also the protection of human rights. equipment and non-proliferation. These are, I believe, very crucial markers, which have also been taken into account internationally and, as I believe, have also been borne by a broad consensus of all five political groups in the House. So this small resort has moved a lot, and next year we will continue with the Danube Strategy, where an unexploited potential is available for the EU budgets. €350 billion is available for the regional Structural Funds. By the hour, after the fourth year that is about to end, 10 percent of this has only been exhausted; from Romania, Bulgaria, about 2 percent. This Danube could be a link for 52 universities, for the various growth impulses that the region would do very well. There will be a whole series of congresses and initiatives that we support permanently. One last point, I don't have a lot of time: I would like to stress that we have been able to show a bright example just these days. To date, Austria is the first and only country that has established with Russia a respected and internationally highly respected cooperation with the illuminating of the archives for victims of World War II and post-war times. We have at least 130 000 Austrians with the Boltzmann Institute, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Russian authorities to ensure that they get information about their lost relatives who either fell as soldiers or who have been dragged away as prisoners of war or civilians. And in return, the Minister of the Interior has now been able to provide the Russian authorities with a documentation of over 60 000 very specific information on Russians who have fallen or died in Austria. I think these are many, many small steps. And again: To sum up, we need not only not generate ourselves for the foreign service at all, we can be proud of this powerful organization. We should prove, in this area in particular, that we can save intelligently. I'm sure the Minister has a lot of things to do with this. It's not easy, but I trust him that he'll handle it well.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10469	Mr Van der Bellen is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10491	Madam President. Mr Schüssel, I am sure that this is a small, but very fine place of business, with a wealth of know-how over decades. I am of the opinion that we are making this collection of Eggheads, so to speak, a shrinking head, with this budget and the development of the Federal Financial Framework Plan. I am of the opinion that Austria should not afford to continue to shrink in this way at a time when the problems, internationalisation, globalisation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose budget has always been modest, are being Europeanised. [[Abg. Grastaur: (to photographers in the press log) Madam President!]] What is it?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10522	Wait a minute! It is not permitted to film in the documents. [[The photographers announce that they don't.]] Good. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10544	Thank you. – But I said this in November here in plenary, we discussed this in full length in committee, I can only repeat: I think it's a mistake, the budget. In this way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is shrinking. This is rather a symbol of Austria's withdrawal from international politics, of this provincialization, which we can observe in a wide variety of areas. Unfortunately! One of the commentators referred to it as the “Hinternationalisation” of Austria instead of internationalization. I think this is a very worrying way that will fall on our head sooner or later. However, within the cuts in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is particularly remarkable that the development cooperation and there the funds of the Austrian Development Agency, the ADA, will be put together to a particular extent, alone by about 10 percent next year, by 9 or 10 million. Mr Spindelegger said in committee, well, next year we will somehow bring this about by reducing the overheads and by reducing the presence of the Western Balkans. May be, Minister, but that does not change anything about the fact that the cuts will go into the substance by 2012 at the latest. Then you do not need to be surprised if, in front of Parliament, 3,000 crosses are placed by charitative organizations, by which Caritas with one, as I shall say, trans-party occupation. Ex-Commissioner Fischler was there, ex-minister Ferdinand Lacina was there, and of course Mr Küberl was there at this demonstration, if you want to do so, in saukal winter weather. These are precisely the effects of reducing the funds for bilateral and multilateral development cooperation. You cannot argue that the presence in the Western Balkans will be discontinued and that no reductions in development cooperation will therefore take place next year, which will go to the substance. It may be, but in 2012 it will be like that! And up to and including 2014, these cuts, compared to 2010, total over €80 million. This is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, for a relatively wealthy country like Austria! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Even Minister Spindelegger has admitted that we will, of course, never achieve the international commitment to increasing development aid to 0.7 percent of GDP by 2015! This is completely excluded from this budget path, despite the countless signatures made by Austria under such documents within the United Nations. That is very unfortunate. And we also very much regret that the proposals, which have come from the NGO side – for example, to set up the ticket for development aid – have not been received by ÖVP and SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10592	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10613	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there is a need to save in all departments, and there are significant cuts and savings in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here, for example, the structural reforms started need to be further advanced and synergies should be thought of and then used in the development of the European External Action Service. The point that is particularly painful to us Social Democrats – we have already mentioned this in detail and several times in the Committee – is the savings in the field of development policy. There must be significant changes in the coming years. There must be a turnaround here, because we not only have the moral obligation to be one of the richest countries in the world, but we have also entered into international commitments. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then why do you agree? That is totally inconsistent!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a current foreign policy issue, namely the elections in Belarus. According to media reports, after the elections, oppositionals were brutally beaten up and arrested. Among them is the former Deputy Foreign Minister and opposition candidate Andrej Sannikov. It is the founder of Charter 97, a platform for human rights and democracy. For his defence of these values, he was awarded here in 2005 in Vienna with the Kreisky Prize for Merit for Human Rights. I strongly condemn Andrej Sannikov's arrest, including those of the other oppositionists, and I call for their release! Minister! I'd ask you to take immediate action to release them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10650	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10687	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Muttonen, it is of course good and right to look at democracy in various European countries and to advise the rule of law there – with whatever success. But with the same vehemence, we should also be introduced there and, accordingly, be in favour of respect for human rights and security standards, where there are other regimes, such as in North Korea, and not leave policy delegations there and speak nice words to the rulers there. I believe that we should already measure the same measure, because this is a regime that threatens world peace – a nuclear power! There are very quiet people, human rights are not so important. So there are other countries – but where there is a political fit in the stuff, one is vehement! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that the criticism should be based on a uniform approach. [[Abg. May. Muttons:... also no occasion!]] Well, I think there's a permanent occasion in North Korea! But you measure with two dimensions, please. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Heinzl has gone out and said...!]] I say to you that I think North Korea's procedure is even more worrying, and that concerns us directly. As I have often called for, Mr President-in-Office of the Foreign Ministers, you know, foreign policy, especially the European Union, would be even more demanding to act in this way, as is often the case in the case of a common foreign policy in the European Union. Now, I believe, a European External Action Service will be set up with 4,000 officials, who, we hope, should not do one thing, namely also replace national representations worldwide. It would be interesting that Austrian citizens can also turn to these EU missions and we can save our own national embassies. That's not going to happen. The question is: what is the whole effort for then? because a single European foreign policy is not recognizable if I look at all the world's crisis situations. Although the European Union is on the road at times, it is mostly with several delegations and with as many opinions and strategies as possible. The weight of Europe must of course be assessed accordingly. We are therefore involved in development cooperation, which has been discussed very often. Of course, we also, in principle, acknowledge the need to show the people of their home country a corresponding perspective and to prevent migration flows. However, if everyone has to save, one must of course also save on development cooperation. There would also be the possibility here to pay attention to efficiency at a time of economy, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Also!]] Efficiency would be important. We have 27 armies in the security field in Europe – this is criticized – in 27 countries. That would have to be summarized, then you would produce more efficient safety. How does development cooperation look? – We are not talking about 27 organisations in Europe, but about hundreds of organisations in Europe, and probably thousands worldwide, who are currently in crisis situations, and who, each with their own administration, with their own advertising, are still working against each other in part, but are not looking at efficiency. I think it is important that we in Austria, but also at the EU level, ensure that joint action is taken once, jointly coordinated, jointly funded, but also controlled accordingly, how the funds are used. There would be much more to help those affected than one or another thousand people to invest more here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Foreign Minister, we also discussed security policy in the Committee. Here too, I would expect more active initiatives. The defence budget is still a topic today. I don't think you can use disaster aid and a bit of foreign intervention – but only not in the entire spectrum of Petersberg tasks! – Foreign policy weight gain. This is quite simply necessary if you want to achieve something foreign policy, but also economic policy. Access to high-technology can only be achieved if one is also an equivalent partner in the field of security policy. Mr Minister, you said in the Committee that you expect Austria to participate in the entire spectrum of Petersberg tasks, including robust missions. So far, we don't hear much about it. I'm excited how you put this into the coalition. Finally, I would also expect that as an Austrian – as we do not have to see or see dependencies, for example from America – in the crisis spots, for example in the Middle East, we will act more courageously. There we would be a good partner, an objective partner, a bridge between this region and Europe. That's where you'd be asked. But one should also ensure that unfair assessments, such as by Syria or Iran, are properly identified and discussed and that Austria is committed to creating peace through dialogue and not through exclusion. So it's a lot to do. Only, Mr Foreign Minister, your budget, anyway a small budget, has a large share of savings to bear. This too is not necessarily a signal that this federal government is an active foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10772	Mr Spindelegger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10793	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on a number of questions relating to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the next year. First of all, I can say that there are not only savings in development cooperation. Most of the savings are due to the structure of my house – and this is painful, ladies and gentlemen. When we close a message and two general consulates next year, this also means that the network is narrowing and therefore not available to all Austrians seeking protection and assistance abroad who need support there. But of course it is right that we also save on development cooperation. That's painful. That's a very bitter pill. I can't see any way to turn this off now. In the 2009/2010 budgets, we left the amounts the same and saved them in other sectors of the house. But we will not succeed for the next year. We will achieve this by saving in the structure of the ADA by no longer carrying out development cooperation in the Balkans. I think that is quite justified. We will also make some savings in budget support that we are giving to some countries. But I still want to hold on: What happened to actionism in front of the House is to put 3,000 crosses symbolically in order to eliminate 3,000 children's lives next year, because we do not teach accordingly – ladies and gentlemen, that's also white cynicism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No child will be affected. This gives rise to impressions that are not actually justified. The third area in which we save will be that we will also step back on our contributions to voluntary organisations, that we will no longer co-finance international commitments to the extent that we do not need to. We will still have the opportunity to set priorities next year. Our priorities next year will be that we will fully advance the Danube Strategy in the European Agenda. It should be decided under the Hungarian Presidency. We're going to be a candidate for the UN Human Rights Council. We have done a lot of preliminary work on this. I think that will be successful. And we will also support our companies in economic terms; we will also operate in new areas such as the Black Sea region so actively as to allow Austrian investment to take place, so that the positive impact also on Austria and the jobs in that country. Ladies and gentlemen! This is therefore a budget which, although not pleasant to represent, is in line with what other departments save. We will also try new structures and new ideas to meet this challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10856	I would like to thank the Federal Minister, and I agree to give him the best wishes for today's birthday. [[General condolences.]] Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10887	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, all the good things for my birthday, too! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Chairman of the SJ Favorites! Dear Chairman of the SJ Hernals! I'm glad you're still there and that you're actually practicing for later. This action with the 3,000 crosses has been mentioned many times, it has been called cynical, overlaid. I don't see it like that. I believe that this action was quite one that tried to give to those public who do not have a voice or who have a very quiet voice that cannot demonstrate themselves at the ring. Even if the Foreign Minister has said that no one of these 3,000 symbolic children's lives will be at risk in the coming year, then we know that if this flattening or this less-out of the EZA funds cumulates and sums up until 2014, it is very likely that concrete projects, concrete work of ours, are also affected by Austria in the countries of the Third World and that there may be problems with human life too. I think that this work is important and good and that it needs to be continued. I would actually have liked to make a motion for a resolution at this point, in which we would have agreed that under the Federal Financial Framework Act 2012 to 2015, we would take these cuts back and keep bilateral expenditure at least constant. Nor would we achieve the objectives we have set internationally, namely to invest 0.7% of GNI for development cooperation. But I think that it would be really necessary and feasible to do exactly that with the expected better economic performance, to go exactly this way, to show international solidarity, to invest more, and to get to where the motion for a resolution is. [[Call: Where is the motion for a resolution]] I also believe that it makes sense and would be very likely to invest in a stable, just world with a stable future. Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to convince the coalition partner that it makes sense to understand something specific and to address concrete objectives. Unfortunately, for so long there is no motion for a resolution. I very much hope that by Wednesday, until the vote, everyone will be aware of their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10918	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e10940	Mr President. Minister! It is a shame that we would have liked to put the motion for a resolution together, and we would have liked to support it. We brought him in, he wasn't supported. In this context, Mr Minister, I really can't hear the word "painful" anymore. I already feel the word “painful ” as painful, for there would have been a lot to counter it. I would like to add two more motions for resolutions after I said a few things already in the morning – it is also little to add to what Mr Van der Bellen said. A positive effect in the whole context was that at least for the first time the topic of development cooperation was discussed more widely. We would like to continue this process. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's the first request. The second is: Resolution by Mrs Schwentner, Members and colleagues on development cooperation: Budget path and formable bilateral expenditure as legally compulsory expenditure The National Council wants to decide: The Government is invited to: a legally binding budget path – so that that doesn't happen anymore, what happens now – establishing by 2015 the objective of realistically providing 0.7% of gross national income for official development services (ODA), The Federal Government's core achievements in the formable bilateral development cooperation (ECA) – in particular expenditure for the Austrian Society for Development Cooperation (ADA) – are to be converted from discretionary expenditure to legal obligations; and to ensure that the proportion of bilateral project and programme assistance that can be designed in the official Austrian development services (ODA) represents at least 25 percent. I ask you, at least in this context, for support. I think it is actually about the being and a serious continuation of the EZA in Austria. And these are all things that would be necessary for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11042	Both motions for resolutions are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11165	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11187	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! First of all, you will receive approval from us for the reduction of the funds of development cooperation or development aid, as we said earlier. Only in this way will the pressure arise that the structures will not be financed. It is remarkable that, in fact, representatives of structures are agonizing, not the project representatives, but the representatives of the structures. There is, in fact, considerable resources for organisations that never land with those where they should land. You know that yourself. There are organizations in this area that have used up to 40, 50, 60, 70 percent of the funds they have received for the financing of their structures and only a fraction of it has landed with the people for which it was intended. Only in this way will the pressure arise that the structures actually slim. It is therefore remarkable that the structural representatives are just the loudest. But now on another subject, and that is a subject that I am saying that you have been stingy so far. This is the question of how we deal with an ambassador who represents a minority in this country and acts as if he were the political representative of this minority, namely the Turkish ambassador, and on the occasion the entire Austrian Federal Government, in particular the Minister of the Interior, is putting the Austrians to shame and is massively insulting them. How do we deal with a country that receives €900 million pre-accession aid if Turkey is not supposed to become an EU member – I quote your statements here in the Committee on Foreign Affairs? So what are we going to do to bring it to the European Union with enormous resources if it is not to become a member of the European Union? Mr Federal Minister, can you explain this to us or to the taxpayer why he should finance all this where we need the money elsewhere?- Oh, my God! Then, of course, it is about the problems that we have in connection with the European Union's activities. My speaking time is not enough, but you know that we still have a problem, namely that the European Court of Auditors has not issued a statement of assurance to us to this day, that in the projects we submit – in the figures we have given to the European Rech In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the results of the project are taken into account in order to ensure that the results of the project are taken into account and that the results of the project are taken into account. The Court of Auditors even notes in its statement why there are considerable differences in the presentation of the return flows and the presentation of the funds requested, and the deviations in the Structural Funds are astronomical. The European Commission itself said that the deviation of the actual return flows from the planned return was 258 percent, but this was the case in 2008. At that time, the average was 27 percent, and there was nothing significant about it. The Court of Auditors notes that, in reality, the funds requested by Austria or the funds that Austria could request in the area of the Structural Funds have led to a relapse and are likely to be lost if Austria does not submit better projects. That's where I'm at my colleague's bowl: I really read with great pleasure today that Mr Schüssel now also has a slightly more differentiated view of the Commission's activities. This is already new, and I welcome it, and if this becomes the line of the Federal Minister, then he has our support – because I also say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not the task of the European Union to organize pace 30 in the municipalities. You're right. It is not the task of the European Union, bans on smoking, and bans on light bulbs – and what God knows is all about detailed regulations from the European Union, up to the Natura 2000 rules that I consider to be overrun – while at the same time dealing with the major problems of energy supply, energy policy and a smart monetary policy under “far run” or discovering or developing nothing but rescue shields there – without any imagination. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the new way of your foreign policy in the context of policy towards the European Union, which Mr Schüssel – one of your predecessors – banishes, so to speak, then you have our support, because we have always said so. We also said that when you were ministers, Mr Schüssel, and at that time we were still embarrassed. - It was. Now the Austrian People's Party has clearly insisted that this centralism of the European Union – which has become worse with Mr Van Rompuy – has not improved. This too, by the way, says Mr Wolfgang Schüssel today in a daily newspaper when he is correctly quoted. I share this view, Minister of State. Start by ensuring that Austria has a different appearance in Brussels than the Minister of Banks does on every occasion – by the way, at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11254	There are no further words on the External Chapter. This also concludes this subject area. [[02:53:30]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11278	We come to the negotiation of sub-division 13: Justice. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11305	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Col. Cap is now thank God also to us. I should like to begin with in the sense of what he said – he advocates justice in particular and would like to make constructive proposals on the part of the opposition, which he can then gladly agree with. Well, we'll try it with a very small step towards justice, which brings a little money to the budget, maybe also the ORF. I am convinced that until the final vote on the budget, he will also have spoken accordingly with my colleague, so that this FPÖ proposal can only be accepted. It is about that it will be considered unfair if there is a group in Austria that does not pay broadcasting fees. These are about 10,000 prisoners in the 28 judicial institutions who do not pay GIS fees. You can watch TV, but you don't have to pay for it. [[Abg. Amon:... public council election!]] Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is what the people feel is just and what they can really do here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: That's right!]] Mr Cap, I know it in good hands, and we look forward to your approval. There's something else I noticed: Of course, there are a lot of reforms in the Ministry of Justice which are to come in the near future, but I would also like to draw attention to another point from my professional activity: I just got a small procedural case, a criminal case on the table recently. What do you read about the defendant who has been subjugated? Not only is he not an Austrian citizen – he is the year 1980 – but he is also an early pensioner via AMS. You can't find it. [[Abg. May. Rudas: duty of silence!]] Something has to happen so that state payments are frozen if someone is suspected of having committed a criminal act and if he is sought – that the money is not simply transferred to someone. I believe that you are called upon to find a solution with the corresponding other ministries, in particular the Minister for Social Affairs, which will then be said: If they're looking for you, we'll freeze your money you get from the state until you stand up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that these are two constructive proposals, one for Mr Cap, the other for Mrs Federal Minister, who can, in any case, lead to more justice and much more easily to information on crime. Our Minister of the Interior is also pleased.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11395	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11450	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11472	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to return to what Mr Hübner has already mentioned. We would like to discuss these important budget positions, the 2011 budget, at a somewhat more attractive hour and a little more detailed than it is now possible at 3 p.m. in the morning. However, there have been two political groups here, which were more important to vote for six hours at a more attractive time and to move the budget backwards. For the next time, I can say quite to colleagues from the Greens: No 26 votes are necessary to make our positions clear. We stand at our positions and are also ready to confirm that. There is no need to vote by name and no protocol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] But now to the budget in the field of justice, ladies and gentlemen: If you allow the year 2010 to come to an end, it was quite a difficult year, but it was also a successful year for justice – and above all a success of the Minister of Justice. If we remember, we have increased some 150 additional points in the field of justice last year. [[Call at BZÖ: District Court Bludenz, District Court Dornbirn...!]] At the beginning of the year, there was the first discussion with Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the Minister of Justice, which at the time meant that the judicial staff were sufficient. She did not want to provide additional postal services to the judicial authorities. Through negotiations, the Minister of Justice has succeeded in attracting additional staff, including from the postal sector, to justice. It was already increased by 35 additional planning points in the beginning of the year, and in August of this year 28 million € were promised for the next few years for the fight against corruption and economic crime. These are additional 190 sites for justice, and I believe that this is a success story that is due to our Minister of Justice's tenacity and negotiating skills. Thus, the budget for 2011 in the field of justice, unlike in various other departments, is one that is hardly marked by cuts. So there is only € 16 million less for more than € 1 billion budget for justice. I think that's a right way. However, it will not be enough – and this must also be said – to continue with the same budget, but it will be necessary to deal with these resources, which are available and which, unlike other resorts, have relatively small cuts, will also be more efficient. That is to say, it is our common task to ensure more efficient structures even in the coming months and years, as we have done in recent months – for example, with the electronic footband, which is a discharge for the judicial institutions. Finally, to encourage Mr Rosenkranz: As you know, Mr Collegue, television for prisoners is not only an advantage, but it is also necessary in the sense of a better living together in a detention centre for less violence – and from this point of view it must be seen. But Your suggestion is important, we will take that up and we are willing to see how to deal with this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11518	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11540	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! It's unusual that a budget speech by an oppositionist starts with a little thank you, but I do. I would like to thank you for providing me relatively unbureaucratic with the written answers to the budget questions – including the cabinet chief Krakow – because the timetable of Parliament was so short that a meaningful discussion would not have been possible if you had not met Parliament. But that is also the end of my praise. This, of course, also allows – and this is important in democracy – to put the questions on the scales and also to weigh critically. I do not share the findings put by Mr Donnerbauer here that the staff situation in the judicial system would be so good at all. In 2009, the personnel requirement bill was issued. The results were terrifying. There is an overload of 100 to 120 percent of the state courts, district courts, prosecutors. Now there are a few more planning sites, that's right. However, these will be used mainly in the field of economic crime. In the very sensitive areas, in the family jurisdiction, where the burden is enormous, where one has to wait for decisions on the right to visit for months, nothing changes at all. Second point: the day of office. They wanted to abolish the day of office in the original draft budget accompanying law. This would have been fatal because you would have made it difficult for large sections of the population to have access to justice. There was a protest. You pulled it back. That was right. It's just that I'm going to find out: This has no effect in the budget. So either the anticipated savings have not been present, or there are potential savings, but there are no changes to the budget now due to the withdrawal. This means that the settlement of the office day will become highly problematic and then you leave a chaos to the district courts. I guess so. Third point: the situation at the NeustART association. The association NEWSTART is doing important work. In the last ten years, you know, 25 percent of the staff have been saved there, although the benefits have increased by 75 percent. Over the last two years alone, 10 percent of staff have been reduced in the parole aid. We have here in Parliament decided on the relief package. That is to say, we have created additional tasks for the association NEWSART, but it has fewer and fewer staff in proportion. Where's that going? Fewer staff, more tasks necessarily mean less quality. This is not in the sense of the population, nor in the sense of criminal policy. The first results are: Intensive support for the parole aid has decreased. Only one third of all appeal cases are carried out in intensive care. You are responsible, and you have not shown any understanding of our criticism in the Committee. They say that they would be about as much as they used to be. I remember: The tasks have increased. The other is: If the amount of money is equal to the amount of money for personnel-intensive tasks carried out by the association NEWSTART, this is a relative reduction due to the increase in staff. Don't forget that! NEWSTART is not an individual case, the same situation exists among the trade unions. They must reject any second request and cannot take over the board of directors. The clearing sites cannot be expanded. The same happens during the process Accompaniment, they don't get any more. Here again, the personnel costs alone mean that this is a relative reduction. Similar is the situation in the Juvenile Penalty. There was and has been known for a long time that there are extreme misunderstandings, it was again media topic a few days ago. In this budget, you offer nothing at all to eliminate these abuses. The only thing you find out is that the planned construction of a youth court or an external office to the national court is not possible again. That's too little. It is! You don't have the money, but you're going to have to eliminate the abuses in the Juvenile Penalty. The list could be extended at any time. The greatest danger to the rule of law is that it will be eroded by becoming increasingly poorly equipped. Unfortunately, I have to say that there is no trend change in you, but that the danger of the rule of law being undermined is also the result of this budgeting. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11604	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11625	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think it must be said that, in relation to all the savings that have been made in the context of budget creation, the Ministry of Justice has certainly got away relatively well. In fact, no staff withdrawals occurred at restart and at all other facilities. Of course, this does not change the fact that there are staff needs, no question. It is also always a matter of what resources are available and where priorities can be set. Of course, the penalty is really one of the focal points right now. However, it must also be said that it was not the idea of the Justice Minister now to disband the Jugendgerichtshof. This was an extremely negligent decision, which we still have to shivel. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's not true!]] So if you see that every day young people in the Grey House are raped in the execution of punishment, then that is unbearable. I believe, Mrs Minister, and I can really ask you that, even if we have to move the Baumgasse now, there must be other ways to intervene. It is totally impossible that on Friday in the evening at 4 p.m. on Sunday in the morning six people will be taken out more or less of the guard. There is still relatively little leisure balance, little sport. Of course, there's something up there, and then the weakest ones are the ones that come under the wheels – we certainly have to act strongly against it. [[Call at the BZÖ:... sexual offenders!]] Mrs Minister, you certainly have our support, I think you have the support of all of you here in the house when there are reasonable measures – perhaps you can do something with a barracks. But what is happening right now is simple and simply unacceptable. Let's do it together! Another point is certainly also the whole rules we have on § 278a and all these other undetermined terms, because we find that we have actually put a large amount of money into a trial – not only in justice, but also within the framework of the Ministry of the Interior – which now shows that it was an absolute misinvestment. I therefore believe that in the next few days we will surely have to face many challenges. To discuss at 3 p.m. is certainly anything but particularly reasonable. But I believe that we will have many discussions to do good judicial work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11672	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11694	Mr President. High house! First of all, Mr Donnerbauer: If one complains of the debate at night and blames the vote on it, I must remind you that by breaking the constitution of this budget, the Federal Government will not lead to Parliament until the last days of December. There is no reason to complain about the hours of the night and the vote – the only possibilities that the opposition has to take part in the campaign and protest against your breach of the constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] That was the crucial point why we made this protest: Because you were late because you broke the Constitution. Don't do the role of the perpetrator and the victim! It was your own federal government, your own banking minister, who for electoral reasons did not forward the budget to Parliament in good time. [[Call the ÖVP:Scream like that!]] So don't shed crocodile tears here, complain. You're with your own bank minister! Second preliminary remark: Mr Herb, I do not know if I have the current list of speakers, but I miss your speech in this debate. You have announced to the committee that you want to read telephone records here. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: What's your concern?]] - Please? I'm just asking you. What's this about me? [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and SPÖ.]] He makes a major announcement, opens his throat, and says that he will use the debate here – for immunization – to read the telephone records. Where are they? - Oh, you're still coming? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] The Lord of Herbs is still coming. I have stayed here extra and I have thought that today I will finally be delivered the hearing protocols of the Lord Herbs. Well, where are the hearing protocols? - You're still coming. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Wait!]] Still today? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Tomorrow they'll come. When? Can we know when? - He doesn't know yet. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Wait!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Do you have the hearing protocols yet? When do you want to bring the phone records? With the agricultural budget, or when do you want to bring it? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: No,...!]] Then when? When you're in traffic? That could be, the phone has something to do with traffic. It's also a possibility. So when will this be tomorrow, Mr. Herb? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Wait!]] - Let's wait. So we're holding on: Mr Klepsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hold this for the Minutes. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Can we sometime over the next few years expect these hearing protocols to exist? - Wait, yeah, I got it. Good. Mrs Bundesminister, since we are already waiting: Citizens don't have so much interest in waiting. The procedures continue to be too long. This is known to you; I know that you, too, see it that way. However, it is not easy access to the right, even if, of course, your resort comes from it relatively brightly – that is true, Mr Jarolim is right – but it is not easier to go to the right if, at the same time, the court fees for the so-called smoothing – in one case by up to 83 percent, I believe – are being broken under a promise given at the time of accession to the EU. At the time, it was said that no, EU accession will not result in the introduction of the euro and the changeover of the currency increasing the burden on citizens. Then one has converted the amounts, the corresponding dispute values 1 : 1 – that was correct – and now one smooths them, but of course not up, but down, and therefore, of course, all civil proceedings become more expensive automatically. That's a logical story. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] – Practical for everyone, Mrs. Federal Minister, practically everyone! I say it again: In one point, the increase is even up to 83 percent to raise the court fees. Of course, the reduction of the days of office, even if it was not completely abolished, is not a method of easier access to the right. That is why I say, Mrs Federal Minister: Their place of business has gotten away relatively bright, but there are some criticism points that must also be attached to this place. For example, I also criticise the introduction of a minimum fee of €400 if you submit the annual accounts too late – please?; the lower limit is €700 – or that the fees are raised for company book entries or basic book entries. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Or also that the negligent body injury in the future is only a 14-day suffering and, basically, the whole thing is shifted to the citizen, to the civil right path. This too is not really easier access to law. Then: The question of indebtedness has so far been at least clarifyable in criminal proceedings in the case of the slight or negligent injury, so that this problem of evidence could be dealt with in civil proceedings or could often only lead to an agreement with insurance, because the question of indebtedness had already been clarified. This will no longer be the case in the future. That is to say, in the case of a significant number of traffic accidents, the citizens themselves will have to bear the risk of the process in the future and resolve the indebtedness of civil law issues. All of this is not a means of facilitating access to justice, but basically of enhancing and complicating and shifting the risk to the citizen in seeking justice. This is a trend which unfortunately is linked to this budget. The citizen must bear more and more burdens for tasks for which he has already paid taxes so that the State can provide him with this service, in central matters of the state. This includes internal and external security. The administration of justice is a central task of the State, for which the citizen should not pay additional fees to the taxes he already pays. Therefore, Mrs Bundesminister: This trend has to be reversed at some point, so that the citizen does not afford access to justice, but rather facilitates and reduces fees again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11855	I call Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11876	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Jarolim, if you stand out here, to criticise the youth performance in Austria and say that it is an expression of how the young people are being accommodated in Austria, I ask you: Do you know the old youth court with the prisoner house in the Rüdengasse? Have you ever visited that? [[Abg. Doppler: Sure not!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you even know that? Even the young people in Austria say this accommodation in the 3rd century. District was a catchment and belonged to closed. The fact that you have an ideological problem and you are taking a stand here, because no Red President of the new Jugendgericht has become, I understand. But here, pretending to rape two or three young people every day in the Austrian detention centre is simply a joke. You don't know each other. Mr Jarolim, exactly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] After who's unsuspecting! Ms Bundesminister, increased from budget 2009 to budget 2011 You in your house – and this is a bit objectionable, I told you last time – the staff expenditure of exactly € 1 million. – Yes, I know the excitement is great, but these are the facts. [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas.]] – Yes, the youth hope is coming in too. Mrs. Federal Minister, you do not save especially in your house – I told you last time – on staff expenditure, but you save at the base. There you save massively on staff expenditure. For example, savings of €1.5 million are planned for the judicial institutions in 2011. Although the staff representatives – whether black, red or blue – have for years been experiencing an blatant lack of personnel and a staff shortage at the executives in the judicial institutions and have repeatedly pointed out – that should also be known to you – there are savings of five executive planning posts. We asked for this in the Committee on Budgets. You say that will take place in the Executive Board. However, we need to know that the Executive Board already has civil servants from the base. One can say that we save there, only that does not do anything if one assigns five to ten guards from the base back there. Since we no longer believe this, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e11990	These are voluntary time limits. The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12054	Next speaker: Mrs Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12076	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Lausch, you obviously have no idea of justice or, above all, of youth justice. [[Abg. Listen, tell me! That's your opinion!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I was in the Jugendgerichtshof Rüdengasse. It was an old building, but one thing was clear: The Jugendgerichtshof Rüdengasse has addressed the needs and needs of young and youthful prisoners. The Josefstadt Justice Centre can't do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are operating polemics here by talking about any occupation paroia here, you are driving it across all the young people who are exposed to this very violence, which Mr Jarolim has pronounced, every day. And that's cynical! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now on another point in the field of justice, namely the treatment of addictions. We have already dealt with this in committee, Mrs. Minister. It is planned that, under certain conditions, drug addiction will have to undergo therapy. This exists either within the prison, within the judiciary, as it is done by the justice itself, but also by institutions outside the judiciary, especially when addictions are not arrested for various reasons. And now you're doing the following: They decide that this therapy may last for a maximum of six months, for therapies taking place in those institutions that are outside justice. If you've ever been involved in addiction – and I've been a social worker – then you know that you can't shave all the addictions over a comb and you can't say that someone's done automatically after six months. This also shows the numbers of the expert institutions. For example, the “Green Circle” has provided figures which clearly show that the average stay there in these facilities is 90 to 143 days, so for all those who can still expect at this time, it is within these six months, but one has to say: If you look at the length of your stay of those who also successfully complete a therapy – and not those who stop therapy in advance, but who are also included in this average – then the average duration of therapy is 268 to 363 days. And anyone who can still expect now can easily calculate that this is well over these six months. Its statement in the Committee that the trend is going towards outpatient therapy and away from the hospitalist does not correspond to the facts. There are addicts who need to stay in a hospital for more than six months. There are, of course, addicts who need less and for which an outpatient facility is better suited. But here, all of us have to shave over a comb and make it impossible for people who need this urgently to get the necessary help is shortsighted and in this sense to criticize us. And in this sense: Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12140	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12162	Ms. Minister of Justice! We have discussed a number of issues with you in the Committee. It has surprised us a little that you have rejected it, just as we have requested it and have supported you to get 80 posts more. Apparently, you are satisfied with what you have. We would have believed that, especially in the sense of the faster procedures and the direct access to these 80 posts would have been helpful. But please, you have to answer that. But what was particularly annoying about us in the Committee was the discussion on the numbers of prisoners and the question: Due to the high numbers of prisoners, is it necessary to build a new prison? You said you'd rather release the prisoners than build a new prison. I'm telling you, we have a different opinion. If someone has been sentenced to a criminal sentence, then he should also put it down, and not that you say – that already sounds like Broda’s ideas – you are happy if there are no prisoners. We are, too, but if they are condemned, they must also lay down their punishment. And there you have the responsibility that the necessary buildings are present and the appropriate infrastructure is established. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another point, where we did not believe in the Committee, was the question of conditional dismissal, especially for sexual offenders. They have meant, as so often, that they should be released on condition, because only then can accompanying measures be put in place. That is a completely different opinion. We believe that there should be no conditional redundancies, but life-long measures to monitor these offenders, because the remaining risk of repetition, a relapse must not be overcome on society, especially when it comes to children. Mrs. Justice Minister, we would expect more initiatives from you. That's your obligation. That's where you would have our support. Unfortunately, there has been very little in the Committee. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let the ideology that the perpetrator is not responsible for himself, but a victim of society, that is, of all of us, and therefore we also have the risk to bear in this half of the house, and consider whether you are not responsible to the population here. Finally, what was not quite understandable in the budget: a very strong reduction in the liability for innocent citizens. I believe that if someone was found to have been arrested innocently, then the original sentences would have already been justified. Mr Klepsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We have also discussed this in the Committee, and I would like to make this clear again. It is quite interesting how especially in recent weeks and months court cases 1 : 1, at least where it fits, are played to the public. You, Mrs. Minister, said in the committee that this is not the case of justice. We don't know, and you don't know. We only know that these files are not sufficiently protected. The Court of Auditors may understand the matter accordingly, from whom files have gone. The Minister of the Interior has said that she has organized this in such a way that it does not exclude it, but it is difficult for these files to be brought to the public by its own staff. We would also expect that from you, because it is about the rights of innocent individuals that we must also protect. There is very much an interest in detection, but it is necessary to protect the population from abuse, defamation and abuse.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12240	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12261	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, in particular by the ÖVP and the SPÖ, I am going to tell you today a sentence which was said yesterday, which will be said tomorrow and which will probably be said next year: Your budget is not just, not socially balanced, but it is a burden budget! It is a budget that puts the families, the children, the commuters, the drivers, the bank customers and, and, very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are far from addressing the actual problem areas, namely administrative reform, federalism and health. And, Mrs Minister, you have continued what your Minister of Finance has given you, namely the withdrawal of those groups of the population who are unable to resist it at all. Mrs Minister, you certainly know the open letter, which has been signed by many lawyers, deans, the President of the Bar Association and the Public Prosecutor's Office and so on, in relation to the lawyers. This reduction in training time for legal practitioners from nine months to five months, which is quite simply immense. You know that our legal training system is a two-stage: First, the very theoretical focus is on the profession at the universities and then the practical training in the court. However, they have not only done a bad job for the law practitioners, but also for the future judges and many others, as well as for the courts. For it is very likely that the day of office will be preserved in a certain form. However, the actions and applications remain on the day of office, and legal practitioners are actually the academic assistants of the judges. I can still remember my time very well, and I spoke with some legal practitioners in Graz. It is still the same process: On the one hand, they have to bear the files of the judges, but on the other hand they also have to prepare the remaining and the new judgments of the judges very often in advance. I think it is precisely these lawyers and these lawyers that deserved to get a corresponding salary. And to cut this by 20 percent, that's just an enormous one. And I find something more immense, Mrs. Minister. We talked to you about this, and you were of the opinion: Well, they go home at twelve, why should they be rewarded so? – Please inquire in the courts. That's not how it works. Once again a small sentence as a conclusion towards the SPÖ, to the colleague Cap. This morning, he felt that the budget is a way of justice that needs to be continued. I can give you the “Little Newspaper” of the 16th century. Cite December. There is the title “Sauer auf Koalition”: 51 percent do not believe that it is all right in our country. - More, I don't think that's to be said.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12314	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12335	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The current cruel case of Erwin K. and Anita K. – only to remember who it is not For more information, this has only been discussed in the last few days and weeks, including in the public – has shown how important it is not only to carry out lifelong control and supervision of sexual offenders, but above all, Mrs Minister, we ask you once again to consider the time-limits for the eradication and limitation of sexual offences. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because you know what happened: Erwin K., who appeared there as a “father” of Anita K., whom he brutally murdered, who in the 1970s and 1990s had repeatedly been punished and sentenced for rape, incest and other crimes, passed the youth offices, without any objection, at all to this child. There's something wrong in the system, there's a mistake in the system that can happen in such a way that such a one - I say this very expressly - could even get beast near a minor and then even name himself as a right-wing child. And the whole thing's past the youth office, the authorities. Something has to happen! It can't be like that. Mrs. Minister, that's where you need action. Just as with the early arrests, where since 2006 alone 1 880 offenders have been discharged in advance. In the years 2008-2010 alone, it was 310 sexual offenders, sexual offenders with, in part, serious crimes that had been released in advance, and of these, 29 relapses. 29 other cases! This is not a case of these relapses, but usually the same and several, of serial perpetrators who have driven their beings. Therefore, it is absolutely urgent to consider how to actually put these sexual offenders to the test in the sense that they are no longer released to the public, to the families and to the children, but finally locked away or controlled for life. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Minister, you said we had 8 600 holdings in the detention centre and 8 600. That means something's not right either. They should consider and take our proposal seriously not to say because we do not have detentions, let us all be free, let alone no-one, but to examine new detention facilities and possibilities of new detentions. We have made the proposal to take over, for example, the German army, which are no longer needed for sale and to create possible detention places there. That would be an idea. Last point: the so-called Emmental Justice. Mrs Minister, check your posts too! Finally, we have read the protocols of Mr. Kulterer from the Hypo in the newspaper – illegal, secret protocols – or the criminal act or the prepared act of Mr. Strache in the “profile” – I do not think that this is well reported in advance in the media – or other cases. You know what we mean. Don't forget that one of your predecessors has only recently been sentenced by a minister secretary because he played Bawag-Akten to the “profile”, then to Mr Worm. So it's not like getting out of the air that files from your house are also specifically played to the media. You have a responsibility that, like the Court of Auditors or similar to the Ministry of the Interior, you will find methods of coding, file backup, so that people who are also innocent, where it turns out, there is no procedure at all or the procedure will be stopped in the media. You just have a responsibility, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12406	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12428	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Yes, the judicial unit has a budget of €1.1 billion, and we have an own funding rate of almost 73 percent. This is an old tradition in Austria, and this leads to the fact that justice does not cost taxpayers in general, but rather costs something that the judicial services also benefit from. Please, this is a cost-truth, and I think that this principle is also the right principle. This was last emphasized in a study by the Council of Europe, which was presented in Ljubljana about a month ago. There, too, it became quite clear that the Austrian judicial system does not need to hide, quite the contrary, that we can be very, very proud of our judicial system. We are in the victim protection number one, we are on the front lines, which is the speed of the procedures, and we are particularly favourable for taxpayers. So I don't always let anything go bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's just a short while before the execution of the sentence. There are too many resulting redundancies, the other too few due redundancies, the one too much care in the execution of the sentence, and the other too little care in the execution of the sentence. That's the best proof that we're going the right way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12467	There are no further statements on the Justice chapter. This concludes this subject area. [[03:37:10]] UG 14: Military Affairs and Sport
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12491	We are entering the negotiations on sub-division 14: Military affairs and sports. The first speaker is Mr Podgorschek. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12516	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think the last time I spoke at this time of day, it was probably still in my military activity when I held a command issue or a situation meeting. In a similar situation, I feel back now. We have a very dramatic budgetary development in the Austrian state defence, and I have legitimate doubts about the ability to fulfill the constitutional orders. Our Austrian federal army certainly has one, I would say, limited willingness to use, and even if it is always stressed, both by you, Mr Minister, or by your generality, that everything is the best, in my opinion, these are only lip confessions and are only used to stifle the criticism and calm down the critics. We have a military system that has been more or less destroyed by politics. That was already at the time when, by political direction, we had the six months In the case of a contract of employment, the Court of First Instance shall have An ordinary militia is no longer to be conducted at the age of six months, and after that was introduced on the basis of policy, it can be found at the end of the day – the militia is only possible on a voluntary basis. At the end of the day, all the military soldiers saw no more perspective, and that actually leads to a disaster. Now we are in a similar situation again: We have now been forced by politics to discuss the abolition of compulsory military service. At the end of the day, this is the next step that will lose part of our willingness to defend ourselves. In the militia is massively saved. In 2011, 10 percent of the arms exercises will again be saved – in euro the 5.3 million – and above all, the number of days of military exercise will be greatly reduced. I would therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12582	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12670	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12692	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I am able to speak about the chapter which is probably more encouraging to the Minister, namely sport, and I would like to start perhaps where the history of sport promotion has begun, in 2000, when German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel has removed the upper cover of sports promotion and since then celebrates sports promotion of excellent high-speed flights and this year, with a total of € 129 million, has reached the absolutely highest amount in the history of Austrian sport. This is very gratifying, because it enables sport to carry out its tasks. This is done on the one hand in broadband sports, where one can serve the comprehensive association network with its more than 14,000 associations throughout Austria, which are the basis for youth work and for the young work in Austria. Secondly, the organizer country of Austria can also be sufficiently taught, for example with the Schi-WM in Schladming in 2013 or also with the Olympic Youth Games in 2011, with both the general and the special federal sports promotion being an essential contribution. Thirdly, it is the successful professional associations that are the basis for the success of the top athletes. Of course, the top athletes bring in their own achievements, but the support from the associations and the clubs is very important. To ensure that the whole thing gets a proper round, there is a reform of this federal sport promotion, and here it is very important that we introduce transparent and efficient awarding and, above all, control in this respect and maintain the autonomy of sports. Mr Minister, you know that you have a partner in every relationship in organized sports. Let us see that this financial equipment comes where it is supposed to come, namely to the clubs and to the athletes, so that we will continue to be a successful sports country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12732	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12753	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are you talking about sports now?]] That would fit you! Of course not, of course, among the 27 000 most vulnerable young men, who, if a reasonable decision is not taken soon, are being brought back to a completely pointless military force for tranches. I respect the position of the Freedom Party, which says: Okay, we're representing the militia officers up to the militias! They want to meet regularly. One play the enemy, the other play the insurges, with tanks, cannons, all possible. And then they want to play war in this Republic at the expense of taxpayers and taxpayers. Only: No one but these strange people with their strange leisure ideas needs this militia. [[Abg. Strache: It is also about civil servants, about social security! The civil servants will then also be removed! You can't forget that!]] No one needs these free adventure playgrounds. This is completely unnecessary and costs a lot of money. Unlike the Freedom Party, which completely ignores the interests of young people who represent the interests of old militants against Austrian youth, I note with the Minister of Defense that, despite previous statements, he has begun to move politically in recent months. [[Abg. Stache: Let's make a referendum! I look forward to the result!]] I also believe that the debate at the Hilton poll has also shown him quite convincingly that wherever the military is no longer primarily about national defence, it is about the sensible organisation of international peace operations within the framework of the United Nations, it is over with the obligation of military. Only those States which rely exclusively or largely on national defence will still have a military obligation in the foreseeable future, and these are as different countries as Finland or Turkey. [[Abg. Strache: Or Switzerland!]] And now the Freedom Party clearly represents the position that Turkish military ideas are closer to us than German, Swedish, British, Dutch, Italian, Czech, Slovenian and so on. [[Abg. Street: Switzerland is very close to us! Switzerland is the best example!]] You know very well, the military force is coming to an end. This will be reviewed, and there will be a referendum next year. We shall put forward in this House a request for a referendum. [[Abg. I hope so!]] And if you are on the other hand, then you, Mr. Strache, will once experience a lesson in direct democracy, then the Austrian youth, and not only the male youth, will give you a lesson in a referendum and then you will notice that the notions of spending money in the military instead of in the schools, the money for tanks and guns instead of in the care and social professions, have no future and you also represent a radical minority in this point. [[Abg. Strache: Then you will see where the majority is!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Do you think the 8 percent of the greens in this house?]] I think it is very, very important that there is a rethinking here in the SPÖ, which is for completely different reasons for the obligation of military service – it has something to do with history and ideas of democracy – in terms of military duty and it approaches new models step by step. [[Abg. Straw: Pillow for professional soldiers! Pillow for the professional army!]] Next year it will be so far, and I am sure that it will be so far next year that we in this House have a clear parliamentary majority against the classically liberal notions of military forces. I'm looking forward to the referendum.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12928	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12949	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pilz, we will, of course, have to discuss this very issue next year, but before it comes to a vote in some form, we will be asked to inform ourselves accordingly, to discuss with each other and to show a way that the people will be able to understand. It can't be that each party is octuating or transmitting its own view to the population and then waiting for miracles that the right decision will be taken. Our task as a people's representative is to prepare it in such a way that people know what they expect. On the one hand, we cannot pretend that the soldiers of the past were useless and that any investment was thrown out of money. The aid alone in the event of disasters and other operations is not quantifiable. It's not possible for the economy to do this if it's a professional. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have listened to my colleague Mr Pilz today, then we have seen that he has actually let go of the first time that he really does not want any army at all, because he has said that money for tanks can be used for health, money for weapons for education. Thus, the way to any use for other purposes is naturally open. I am one of those who believe that we have enshrined national defence in the Constitution, we are committed to the Constitution and have to take it seriously. Of course, we should not refuse a discussion – a savings potential of € 530 million by 2014 is also a huge step. Of course one is also required, but it is also an opportunity to rethink the whole system. It is certainly editable, it is more efficient to make, that is not a question, but what it will eventually be, we will still have to discuss it together. The basis will be the Doctrine of Defense, and then we have an order to develop a concept, then we have color to confess what it is worth to us to finance the national defence in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e12992	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13014	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Prehauser, Federal Minister Darabos, on behalf of the SPÖ, obviously led the German army into the most severe crisis of the present. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In just four years' term of office, Federal Minister Darabos, you have almost abolished the German army's willingness to work. The budgets are too small in Weitem. The federal army is consistently broken. Disasters such as those in the flood disaster in Lower Austria in 2002 can no longer be dealt with! Nevertheless, Federal Minister Darabos – in political obedience! – another savings package accepted by the Federal Army, amounting to € 530 million, without any objection! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This saving, ladies and gentlemen, is at the expense of the last remaining military commitment – and is strictly rejected by the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With this senseless saving, you have led the motivation at the cadre into the basement: The soldiers are frustrated because investments are withdrawn, stretched or completely deleted for order performance. Minister Darabos shortens in all areas, but without putting any heavy weights. There are cuts in the service, in the training – and even during the flight hours is saved! And that puts the safety of the pilots at risk! We demand from the BZÖ as a logical consequence of this: In the day-to-day operation must not be saved, but in the inflated administration, saving is of course recommended! At the same time, Federal Minister Darabos, we must note that the Federal Government continues to negligently waste taxpayers' money. The continuation of assistance at the eastern border is absolutely insanity and must be terminated immediately! We from the BZÖ demand the formation of a new federal border protection force with appropriate competences. Only by this can complete border controls be carried out. However, this request is constantly being carried away by you by SPÖ and ÖVP, so to speak, for months! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The previous course of the debate shows: SPÖ and ÖVP are also completely disputed in the area of national defence. Each is based on his own “security doctor. ” There is no joint action in this Federal Government on this important security issue! Mr Amon and also Foreign Minister Spindelegger make a single way – and Federal Minister Darabos is given the march by the self-proclaimed military experts Faymann and Häupl. Now Minister Darabos is there “specialist” – and suddenly he becomes a single fighter! Previously, he was a well-known blocker and pushed every reform into the long bank and repeatedly defended the failed German army reform in 2010. Now he goes into the offensive – without a serious assessment of the situation! In ignorance, in the ignorance of what tasks a federal army of the future has to deal with, you now, Mr. Federal Minister, have the German army uprooted. This is all completely aimless and unplanned! Getting out of the devil is suddenly “reformed” and “reformed” – and the ÖVP is watching inadvertently! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's just too shocking that the ÖVP doesn't get in there. The single entry of this Minister of Defense is abandoned! The tolerance of the ÖVP shows that the ÖVP has long adopted itself as a security party. This responsibility has already been taken over by the BZÖ, also at the Bundesheer Neu. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] Most countries in Europe give the professional army a chance, a huge chance. For many recognized experts – including in Austria – the obligation to military service, as it is now being carried out, is a complete economic nonsense. And the general tenor is: The federal army's in the throttle! Political action is long overdue – and the BZÖ has responded quickly! Under the responsibility of the competent and successful former Minister of Defense Scheibner, we assessed the situation in time, and a model was developed that we presented months ago. We have also tabled our proposals here in the House. It is now up to the negotiations which will take place. We from the BZÖ demand the immediate suspension or abolition of the military obligation. We from the BZÖ call for an efficient volunteer service with a necessary military component for Austria. In addition, the disaster protection tasks for possible assistance missions of the Federal Army need to be upgraded. Such reforms, ladies and gentlemen, would create the conditions for the handling of future tasks by the new army! You, Federal Minister Darabos, and your general staff, who has not put in a night shift today, would be well advised to take over our models so that protection and assistance can be guaranteed for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13193	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13214	Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Actually, I just wanted to talk more for the protocol, but now quite briefly, dear Kurt ListThe professional army on a voluntary basis with a military component, as you demand as a representative of the self-elected "security party", would probably cost the twice as much as this mixing system we now have. This could certainly be a calculation of that – but be it. Mr. Peter Pilz, I have to say: I really appreciate your points in the subcommittees, which are relatively familiar, because we all sit there very closely together. You, Mr Pilz, are consistent in your attitude that you want to provide the Federal Army with only one goal – and that is really a small, perhaps fine professional. But at any rate you want the abolition of the general obligation to do so, or at least the abolition of what it is now. I would like to draw attention to the following: Our federal army does not have domestic tasks, but other armies whose situation we have recently been presented in the Hilton. These countries presented are almost all transferred to a professional army in NATO. That's not Austria either. I think that right here, too, parties are sitting in opposition, who always attach an alliance-free and neutral Austria to their flags. But it's really not much to see anymore! A professional force without a general military obligation and without a military component cannot only fulfil the required domestic tasks, but there is also the freedom of alliance and neutrality of our country in question. And that's what you're questioning – not us! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13273	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13294	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Too later, yes, early hour a few sentences on the statements by previous speakers. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, for this discussion, which we now have here – also the statements of Mr Pilz show this – we have come not least because a certain mayor Häupl in Vienna has initiated this discussion in a shady way. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the SPÖ did not intervene until now. Heupl obviously believed that he could quickly bring voices to the youth in this way – and we have seen the final effect here today, also in the word of the Dr. Pilz. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now to the budget: € 65 million less for 2011 with the German army; € 530 million less until 2014. And what that means, I think everyone here doesn't need to be a big security expert. However, what makes the situation worse enough already, ladies and gentlemen, even worse, is the procedure of Federal Minister Darabos. You don't even know since yesterday that the German army has to save € 530 million, but you already know that since spring 2010, and so you would have had time – and there I am already with the SPÖ spokesperson Prehauser – to think about concepts. What we are experiencing now is uncoordinated, without concept, is a saving after the lawn mower method. I do not want to list all the points now, because this is about the reduction of 1,000 employees; the fleet kilometres are to be limited and the hours of flight. Massive cuts will exist in the troop and equally massive reductions in the mechanized range. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot make a serious security policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have proved once again, not least here, with this budget, that you are overrepresenting as Minister of Defense and are part of a – I say this quite openly – successively crushing the federal army. And I very much regret the fact that, here, representatives of the SPÖ, but above all, also representatives of the ÖVP – who always refuse to do so, if you come a little closer to Federal Minister Darabos – watch this drive of the Federal Minister and do not take any steps against it. To date, nothing has actually come of the ÖVP – except a paper by Mr Spindelegger. Serious debates look different! We liberals stand for a functioning federal army! Our liberals are on duty! We liberals stand for a strong militia – and above all for a safe Austria! That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is five to twelve in this area! In this area, it is five to twelve, and I therefore ask you to accept this request. [[Calls: It's 4:00 a.m.]] I think that is what we are to do with the Federal Army – dear Kurt List, you are also affected by it – and above all also to the servants of the Federal Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13382	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13449	Next speaker: Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13470	Mr President. High house! Good morning! Coming to the budget: I am very surprised and also pleased that this debate on the future of the Austrian federal army is taking part in the budget debate, but I would like to focus on the subject of budget in the light of the late, better said, the early hour. I can say a few words about the statements made by FPÖ Members here, without any polemics. You can be sure that the capacity of the Austrian federal army with the 2011 budget and also with the subsequent budgets will be guaranteed by 2014. In contrast to some previous governments, we have also reintroduced the militias you have addressed. I have done this personally; you will not be able to dispute it. I wanted to do this for a short time now. I insist that we have a consolidation programme in total in Austria – and that the Austrian Federal Army will be affected by €530 million by 2014. I would just like to say in this connex that, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany has to save €8 billion in the same period. 8 billion €! Although the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr. Liste, is ten times the size of Austria: If you split that through ten, it would be €800 million. So you can live with this consolidation package on the Austrian side. What is important is that the efficiency, that there is effectiveness and that we can fulfil the tasks of civil protection, foreign intervention and the hopefully very theoretical case of national defence – and we can do so with the 2011 budget! I would like to say quite clearly and openly – this is also the discussion that has taken place in the last few days –: I insist that we reduce heavy equipment, that we halve the number of tanks that we... – You have accused us of inactivity, but we have been working on it for a long time, and I am pleased that at least this point meets consensus with you. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that we do not need the tanks to the present extent due to the changed security policy conditions – in Marchfeld there is no need for a tank war. That is why a clear step, and not, as you say, an unconstitutional approach, but a very clear approach, based on the security situation. In addition, the Ministry of Defence has been one of those departments – I have followed this very closely today, here live but also via the TV device: just from FPÖ has always come the demand for administrative reform – which actually implements an administrative reform. And I would also like your support. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Don't sell tanks, but cut off personnel! 1 000 people will be reduced by 2014. In addition, 400 persons are made available to the Minister of Finance by the supervising staff, which is admittedly present, in order to combat fraud. 200 officials and officials over stand will be made available from the department of defence to the Interior Minister's office so that there is more safety on our streets. – So please, if this is not an administrative reform, what is an administrative reform at all?- Oh, my God! I would therefore ask you to support you in this area – and not only in the speeches here from the panel to say that one should save in the administration, one should save officials, but if that is actually done, then do not give support to it. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] - Okay, but that's not to be expected of you. We will continue to sell properties, for example, together locations in Vienna. I also think that this is an efficient and good measure. With this, we want to reach €30 million, which will benefit the German army directly. All in all, this budget is committed to ensuring investment in spite of this savings project. We have the highest building volume that the German army has ever had, at €65 million in 2011. I would also like to stress this today. Ladies and gentlemen, you can assume that the budgets will be secured for the next few years and that we will be able to carry out our tasks – thus the circle – in the field of civil protection and foreign intervention, where we have the strongest phase for a long time, with 1,200 soldiers in the Balkans or at the Golan, as well as the national defense. To the field of sports very briefly. It was only a speaker who has been concerned about this subject so far. I can give you 100 percent right: This is the highest budget the sport has ever had, with € 129 million. We were able to achieve with the individual umbrella associations, with the professional associations, but also with the BSO, that we have been able to increase the basic funding for the sport from € 40 million to € 80 million. This is a great result for Austrian sport. We will have to discuss or implement a funding reform here in the House next year. And I'm really good at that we can create a new model of support, one that's more smelly. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. I am actually sure that all the parties represented here in the House will take one step at a time. As Mr Haubner has already mentioned, we will not forget to finance large-scale sports projects. For example, the Schi-WM 2013 in Schladming, where Austria is so to speak in the edition. This also applies to the 2012 youth Olympics in Innsbruck. This is only the second event of this kind worldwide. In the summer there has been one in Singapore, and in the Jah-re 2012 there will, as said, be such in Innsbruck. This is a great sign for Austrian sport and for the Republic of Austria as a whole. I would like to thank you here in the High House, especially in the field of sport, and I am sure that with the 129 million € for the Austrian sport, we can create good not only in top-ranking sports, but also in wide-ranging sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13583	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13604	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Late in the debate, but early in the morning I ask myself the question: What's left of those 17 hours we spent inside? A total of 100 times the name Bucher has fallen. Whether this has raised its sympathy values, I do not know exactly; I leave that to other Members. But probably my colleague Bucher is so ready that he had to go to bed now. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I think that this self-advertising on the back of the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate is not all right. In any case, these have also done great work today with the about 20 national votes to be carried out. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] These namental votes were at least blush-stimulating and have put us in motion, which is in order from a sports point of view. We were also able to experience the highest performances of the scribes today. This is, as has been said, very encouraging from a sporting point of view, but I still believe that relatively few ladies and gentlemen of the opposition have an idea of what Parliament's employees must do if the Rules of Procedure are so excessively exploited. That is why a great thank you again to the employees! [[Abg. Strache: Don't forget about the employees!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The employees did something too!]] Now on the topic of sport. The sports budget is well-educated: around €80 million for the special federal sports promotion, where a hard fight by our minister has brought this result together with our support. Roof and professional associations and the BSO together with politics must fulfil the mission, because we have the obligation to use this money responsibly, efficiently and purposefully in the sense of wide-ranging and top-level sports. We have committed ourselves to the reform of sport promotion in 2011 and we will implement it together. For January next year, I expect the first comprehensive documents here, which was promised to us. We will then have an intensive discussion in the Sports Committee. The President-in-Office has already announced that we will do this constructively as always. Finally, this should lead to a new, modern and direction-setting sports promotion law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need the will of all, including the support of the Minister he has already given us. Therefore: Let us look forward to an intense, exciting and busy year 2011!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13681	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13702	Mr President. Minister! The reform of sport promotion is necessary in several areas, including the control of funds. I hope that we will continue to take a significant step next year, because that those bodies that ultimately allocate the funds control themselves, is something that has been viewed as inappropriate for a long time. On the other hand, we need a sport promotion, in which we can focus more on where current successes in sports are, where role models are, where successful associations can be promoted more than they have been. That's something that's actually been up for a long time. I now come to a point which concerns a specific project, but which, as I believe, is already symptomatic of Austrian sports and support policy. I have repeatedly asked you, Mr Minister, in the Sports Committee, how the Werner Schlager Academy is to develop in Schwechat, a project which, from my point of view, is of relatively great importance to international and Austrian conditions. For those who do not follow it this way: A European table tennis training centre was created in Schwechat, which is, as it were, the counter-policy of the Asian training units, including those of the World Association. At the time, I thought that the promotion of this project was something that is interesting for Austrian conditions and beyond the usual level. Now it turns out, however, that although there has been funding for the construction of the hall in Schwechat, the ongoing operation seems to be completely airborne. If you look at what has flown into money and know-how, you have to say: In Austrian sports policy, we seem to have a massive problem, because if you seriously believe that you are saying that we do not pay operating costs – and this rate fell several times in the budget committee – then I wonder how this should go with a sport like table tennis, where it is clear that there can't be massive money in there and that you won't be rich there, even if you get into top sports. These athletes can only live halfway with the sports aid. A world champion like Werner Schlager, who probably only exists in Austria once in 100 years, may be able to live a little better, but one cannot assume that there are parents behind it who can take a lot of money into their children's hands. If you build a hall on such projects, which has cost a higher amount of two-digit million, but then there is no means of promoting the ongoing operation, I wonder what is actually going on in the field of sports policy. [[Call the SPÖ:Don't twist the facts!]] – What does it mean to “turn the facts ”?- Oh, my God! I'm sorry, where are the current promotions?- Oh, my God! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – I also think it would be very good if this were to be known. I note that in Schwechat a hall has been built for a lot of money – and if there are already calls for intermediate calls, then we will have this discussion seriously –: Where did there be a master plan in relation to the operation? You can't take over € 40 million and build a large center there, but already in the first year of the operation, it is not ensured that the operating costs can be covered in any form! Operating costs are in this case, including coach costs. How can a table tennis centre exist if the coach costs are not also co-financed by federal funds? What do you think you're supposed to pay for this?- Oh, my God! It should have been in the logic of this whole model if you were to promote it and the Minister goes here and say that we pay millions for the construction, that you know afterwards that the thing can work in any form. I've really been shocked by the multiple answer, there's no operating costs. There would be operating costs if, for example, you were with the ASKÖ or the SPORTUNION. There are probably trainers who flow there. The problem should also, of course, be that this is not an area in which there are, as it were, structures growing. I am very excited about how we will stand next year at this time and whether this model, which I believe might be exemplary for Austria, can actually be operated – or whether it comes to a financing GAU, as it currently looks. The fact that hall financing is now re-fatted by the federal government is okay, but that's another chapter. But there is a training hall, where it is clear that you can't manage revenue to a certain extent and you say afterwards you don't pay any operating costs, that's completely incomprehensible to me and I believe in a completely false model of sports promotion.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13751	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13772	Mr President. Minister! High house! Federal Minister Darabos, the fact is: The Federal Army was saved to death last year. Here you have to either take money into your hands or create an attractive professional force, because the militia is almost impossible to use. If you look at the budget, you can see that from 2010 to 2011, the infrastructure and, above all, the barracks will be saved €10 million. There is also a decrease in staff costs. Therefore: We need an attractive professional force, so that not 26,000 people who are trained annually in the Federal Army will be in a job without any target. What are these people supposed to do after that?- Oh, my God! We need, as I believe, a professional army of 15,000 people, who are also capable of providing disaster protection. That would be the right way. Mr Federal Minister, you know this yourself, and if you have heard your statements from the past few weeks and months, you are obliged to say in this regard that in the next few years we have to go in the right direction and that, as has been said, we need a strong professional force. This should be efficient, efficient and, of course, not too expensive. The topic of sport promotion: Yes, it's nice that there's more resources for this, and we also know why: Because people spend more money in the lottery game – and therefore there is more for sports promotion, which is of course welcome. Only: As far as promotion is concerned – and we have already discussed it in the Committee – it must not be possible that if there are inconsistencies in the promotion of sports, the payment of the money can no longer be stopped. I mean, we really must try to ensure that this is no longer the case in the future, but that in such a case we can immediately stop paying out the funding. As regards doping controls: There is again more budget for doping controls – and that is good. There should also be more control, only one must not be: that control costs € 2 000. I think that such controls need to be more favourable and manageable so that even more and more efficient control can be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13829	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13851	Mr President. Minister! I do not necessarily want to get rid of a “betthupferl” here as the last speaker, but at least briefly on the comments made by Mr Kristi. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – One thing you have to notice, even at this late or early hour: Finally, the government is to blame for the late presentation of the budget. That means you don't need to play the offended liver sausage here because we're sitting here later. You've got to hold it at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have already been told by the government parties that you do not approve of the fact that we are still sitting here in Parliament at this hour. [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, where there is a lot of shade, there is also a little light. I had to say that in your speech, you have already turned a little beyond the fact that you are not at all the country defence department at all, but rather the sports resort. Again: Where there is a lot of shade, there is also a little light – and in the sports sector it is at least so that the budgets could be kept about the same, which is to be described as a light view if one considers this pitiful budget, which was presented here. In the end, however, some questions arise for us about things that we will observe with Argusaugen in the future, and since, on the one hand, that has been mentioned before, the redesign of sports promotion. For months now we have been waiting for the concept you have announced, after which there may also be a repression of the politicalized sports organisations. You all know what that means: I am addressing the ASKÖ, but of course also the SPORTUNION. In this context too, we would want less policy. The effective fight against doping is also a very interesting thing, measures that we will observe with Argusaugen, because we know NADA can certainly get even better in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. In this sense I wish you good luck with this sports budget. As I said, a very little light with a lot of shadows.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13918	There are no more words available. Therefore, the consultation on this subject has ended. Ladies and gentlemen, in just under five hours, we will continue with subheadings 20 to 22: work, social, health and family. I am now interrupting the meeting until today, 9 a.m. The sitting was suspended. [[04:17:10]] [[The meeting was held on Tuesday, 21. On December 21, 2010, at 4.17 p.m. and on Tuesday, 21 December 2010. Done at Brussels, 9 December 2010.]] [[09:05:27]] Continued the meeting: Tuesday, 21. December 2010, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e13978	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the 91 interrupted. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Katzian, Dr. Schussel and Ing. Hofer. We continue with the budget consultation. I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14015	A 10-hour block-time was decided for today's session, so that the following speaking times could be achieved: SPÖ and ÖVP per 145 minutes, FPÖ 125 minutes, Green 105 minutes and BZÖ 100 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were also adopted on the basis of a presidential round: During the television period, breakdowns 20, 21 and 22 – labour, social and consumer protection, social security – are debated together. Each group has a total speaking time of 41 minutes. It is free for the political groups to see how many speakers they make each. The individual speaking time for the However, the maximum number of first speakers is 14 minutes, and the maximum number of other speakers is 9 minutes. The call for speakers is based on the principle of counter/pro. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. The speaking time of the government bank during this debate is up to 15 minutes and comes exclusively to the SPÖ. With regard to the further development of the debate on today's headings, I would like to refer to the statements at the beginning of the sitting. [[09:07:19]] Heading 2 (Work, social, health and family) [[09:07:21]] UG 20: Work UG 21: Social and consumer protection UG 22: Social security
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14083	First of all, we are entering into the negotiation of subheadings 20: Work, 21: Social and consumer protection, as well as 22: Social security. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. First of all, Mr Kickl. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14107	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Also from my side a nice good morning, if you can wish a nice good morning if you consider Sees that one has been dealing here for weeks, yes, for months with an innovation- and justice-resistant federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we will continue our efforts. It's not all day yet. And perhaps a little pre-Christmas miracle happens, ladies and gentlemen. If, in days like this, even in the last few weeks and months, we are talking about a black zero, ladies and gentlemen, then it is not meant that there is no new debt in Austria, just as this Federal Government wants to make us aware, and it does not tire out to stress this over and over again, because debt-making continues. The only thing that gets a little less is the burden due to interest payments. No, ladies and gentlemen, although I am speaking here of a black zero, I think that is rather a political definition for one of the main leaders – yes, he is also a defender of duty – for this budget, for the Minister of Finance and for Mr ÖVP's head of party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] This is the real black zero in the entire budget debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Zero compliance with promises, zero constitutional fidelity, zero compliance with the principle of trust. We could continue this for a long time. But of course the black zero would not have done all of this if it had not had proper support, ladies and gentlemen. He has not been able to do this alone, but he has been actively supported by loud red zeros, which have been delivered across all sectors – you can't say otherwise – of zero numbers, for example in terms of social justice and also in terms of forward-looking labour market policies. And you can now feel affected, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, and you, Minister of Social Affairs. I don't know if you know the quote, some of you will know it because they act in principle according to this motto. But I would also like to remind you once again, Minister of Social Affairs. I quote: “If there are several ways to accomplish a task, and one of them ends up in a disaster or otherwise leads to undesirable consequences, then someone will do just that.” – Quote. This is the famous law of Murphy. And everyone who has now heard this law must have a decent aha experience when he thinks of what has happened in the last days, weeks and months in connection with the budget, because this is the one who has been sitting there on the government bank since yesterday, and also the Minister of Social Affairs is one of those people who are producing exactly these disasters on the ongoing tape, which Mr Murphy has spoken of in determining his lawfulness. It is interesting, and there, of course, you have done a lot of things in a co-production almost all over the world, real champions, ladies and gentlemen. For example, you have given a completely new meaning to the term “redistribution, ” a term that you have long loved to use and that was clearly occupied. They have completely redefine the distribution in connection with this budget debate. There is only a little need to take a look at the European dimension, ladies and gentlemen, which you are so happy to talk about. With regard to the Austrians, it is true that you are dealing with your tasks with a rather predatory attitude – with a predatory attitude against the Austrian pensioners to whom you provide pension cuts. But you There is no problem at all with carbusing Romanians and Bulgarians coming into the country and getting their minimum pension. This is for You will then be compensated in the context of a social union, as you imagine it. For us, this is a robberous attack, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, are abusing the Austrian families by shortening benefits, but you have no problem at all with the fact that we export millions and millions of euros to foreign countries year after year for children of people who stay in Austria but whose children live abroad. This is a domestic discrimination that you are producing because [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You know exactly that the value of family benefits then also exists in Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia – and we are still waiting for the 1. May of the coming year – is unevenly higher than in Austria. You have to explain this to an Austrian family who is taking away the money now, why you are promoting 50 percent supplement there, ladies and gentlemen! And something else on the subject of families. When we talk about the liberals of the family, we mean the Austrian families. This is so clear inside in this House but obviously not at all. There we have a great lobby for the Zogajs, Zekajs and Zukajs and as they all are called. But with the Austrian families who are not responsible for asylum fraud, You're not well with them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Robberically, you can also deal with the disabled, predatory also in connection with the caregivers and the young unemployed and so on. And why are you doing all this, ladies and gentlemen? You cut it short, because you were red and black and it was you who brought us into the European Monetary Union, so to speak, as a self-proclaimed European High Nobility, in which you brought states that did not have the euro maturity into the European Monetary Union. This was the first time you've violated your own rules. Systematically and for years, you have watched how these states make debts about debt, as if there were no morning. And there are, of course, huge holes and huge funding needs. On the one hand, what you can do to the Austrians, on the other hand, you stop European countries and, on the other hand, in the banking sector in particular. This is the new form of redistribution brand social democracy – I am not talking about the ÖVP at all –: Redistribution of those who are diligent and capable of performance to those who notice that they constantly beat over the strands and do not take care of any rules. Redistributed from those down to the banks. I can only congratulate you on this, Minister of Social Affairs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have, of course, still thought of a form of redistribution. In the context of employment policy, AMS has long been no longer a labour market service, but in fact, it has to be much more foreigners. AMS stands for foreigners must be it. And that is the second form of your redistribution, namely a redistribution from the domestic labour force to the foreign labour force. This is the second redistribution you are working on, also in connection with this budget. I can only remind you that it is you who are the 1st. May, the day of work, a holiday of social democracy, by desecrating you on next 1. May, exactly by this date, open the labour market to workers from the new EU accession countries. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well – I do not know, Mr Minister, whether you can still remember that you once had a function at the ÖGB – that, for example, this ÖGB, for example, that the Chamber of Labour and other experts who do not come from the liberal camp warned against the fact that these measures will have an impact on low-paid Austrians' displacement competition. These are the consequences. And you are continuing this game of redistribution, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, at the AMS, you will reduce the amount of money because you assume that you are already above the mountain in terms of economic policy, labour market policy. There can be no talk of that. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to participate in this displeasure as regards the opening of work. That is why, for a number of times today, I have tabled a motion for a resolution by Mr Kickl and other Members. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary measures at European level to extend the transitional periods and thus to allow for the possibility to regulate access to the Austrian labour market through national measures and restrictions on access and to adapt the requirements of the Austrian labour market and the consequences of the economic crisis, thus preventing additional burdens in the 2011 budget.” What were your big announcements before this budget debate? – A surgically precise, almost laser-controlled, one would like to say that precision attack on the super-rich, on those who have put us into the crisis, on the speculators and financial sharks. A surface bombardment against the middle class, against the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes, against the pensioners and against the disabled, must not be forgotten, for the disabled, ladies and gentlemen, are something like stepchildren of your social policy. Not only do you reduce the care allowance, levels 1 and 2, by simply making it difficult for you to access through provisions and thus of course meet the disabled, you go in times when you otherwise prefer construction measures to revive the economy, also here and open a back door for you to move the accessibility, i.e. the conversion of institutions and facilities into a barrier-friendly variant, in the option to the rear until 2019. You should never go here again and talk about anti-discrimination as long as you make such a thing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I am also putting in place a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl and colleagues to correct this. The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection is invited to ensure that the deadline for implementing structural measures to achieve accessibility is not extended, but that the necessary measures are taken more quickly than previously planned. These measures should be provided for in the 2011 budget." Ladies and gentlemen, you like to argue that you are doing everything you can to combat this crisis. – I say to you: No word of that is true! It is true, rather, that you are this crisis, and we will not overcome this crisis until we have overcome this red and black pro-pore system and thus this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14315	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14421	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14442	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, we are pleased that you have followed the debate again after you voted yesterday after the voting marathon, which you were responsible for. I'm glad you're back, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bucher and Mr Grosz.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The chapter Work and Social Affairs including Social Security is a very important part of the 2011 budget. We have a social rate of around 30 percent, which is in the highest quarter compared with the other European countries. In principle, however, it is necessary to maintain that all social transfers must first be made before they can be redistributed in some social terms – we are working intensively on them. Work and labour market expenditure – this is a sub-chapter that is being dealt with here – is slightly declining because of God thanks to better economic situation: They fall from 6.4 billion in 2010 to around €6 billion in next year. In 2009 it was €5.9 billion. That is, we are commuting about again at the values of the year 2009. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is proof that the economic and labour market packages that we have decided here on a proposal from the Federal Government have taken hold. We have given people and companies framework conditions so that the labour market can recover faster than in other European countries. And that is most important, ladies and gentlemen, because the most important thing is that people in our country have a job. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have around 3.4 million employees at the level of November 2010 and an unemployment rate of 4.8 percent. This is the second lowest in the Netherlands compared with the EU 27. 13 400 people are less unemployed and 5 680 are less in training. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We should all be happy, Ladies and gentlemen, we have such a positive development in this area. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The situation in pension insurance is slightly different: There's almost dramatic development. Then: The federal contribution increases from € 7.8 billion in 2010 to € 8.6 billion in the 2011 budget. After all, this is an increase of about 10 percent. The compensation allowances are constantly developing from € 990 million to € 994 million. I also believe that the adjustment of the pension amounting to €1.2 per cent to € 2 000, then up to € 2 300, is socially fair and, especially for low pensions, an important compensation due to inflation. What, though, is the main problem for the strongly increasing federal contribution? – We retire too early. If we compare ourselves with the European countries, we see that this situation is only still in France. But France has, of course, decided on a change in the pension area, namely age of accession-new 62 years. We in Austria, on average, retire at 58 years, and that's because of the – thank God! – ever-increasing life expectancy just too early. A second aspect of why we have these problems is certainly the 2008 decision on the hacker scheme, where free time was taken, which caused a cost explosion. Last year about 35 percent of the new arrivals at the Hacklerpension are due to these free time. However, with this budget one is opposed: A change in the purchase times by 2013, i.e. exercise replacement times must be purchased in the future, starting in 2011, with € 159 per month. And schooling is getting more expensive. It is raised to 937 € in total. From 2014 onwards, there will be no replacement periods for the long-term insurance scheme. Attendance and civil service and child rearing are charged. There is an age of entry of 62 years, with women increasing gradually. However, 45 years of contributions are still sufficient for a pension claim. This is a first step, ladies and gentlemen, so that, on the one hand, we can keep the long-term insurance scheme for those who are long into the system, but on the other hand, we can put in place the cost-effective measures that are necessary. For the future, ladies and gentlemen, a faster harmonisation of all the pension systems we have is in all cases necessary. We need to align the systems with the ASVG system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is an act of justice, ladies and gentlemen! We have systems – and I deliberately call no businesses and no country organisations – where we retire at 52, 54, 56 years. But the employees can't do anything for it. I emphasize that! We are responsible for changing these systems so that we can also create justice here by aligning them with the ASVG system. That's our job, ladies and gentlemen. This is necessary for securing one of the world's best pension systems. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address another issue that has to do with social matters, namely the issue of care. Care expenditures develop dramatically – less in the federal government, but rather in the countries and communities. We are all discussing social expenditure with our mayors, including regional representatives, especially those in the field of care. These expenditures are simply not available to the local authorities. That's why I'm in the Bun. the Minister of Finance and also our Minister of Finance are grateful that there is a Federal-Land working group on care, where representatives of the municipalities, the federal states and also the federal government are working on a solution. The Federal Minister has announced in the Committee that there will be a two-step solution. We need additional resources until the next financial compensation, so that we can cover the rising costs of care. Because of demographic developments, we have very high costs. And at the next financial compensation, the care fund, which is also set out in the government programme, can be realized. I believe that we should quickly come to a solution in this federal working group, primarily in the interests of those concerned. We have a changed family picture, we see it in the districts: We need more homes and shelters. This measure is therefore essential. Secondly, we need a solution for our communities so that we can achieve a tangible relief. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria has a close social network with very good social benefits. We must, however, continue to develop this system and adapt it to demographic changes. This is our task, which we will also do! In any case, we agree to this 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14576	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14597	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Federal Minister, I think it's interesting, or you'd have to ask: What is the reason why you are not yet in agreement in the description of what makes a budget recovery necessary? This also has an impact on the social budget. A part of the speakers said yesterday: Well, effects of the international crisis, we must therefore also save! – So plump and simple, but not fundamentally wrong, was the explanation. Another part of the speakers – and I was very careful about it – was in the opinion: What we now have to do with the budget is to put down a little bit of the social state that is superfluous! Too much is spent on social matters! There is an overwhelming welfare state in Austria! People are too good! It wasn't said that way, but that's what's behind it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I know, especially in parts of the ÖVP, this is more common than in other parties. But I would ask you to agree first of all in the analysis, in the description of why such drastic measures need to be put in the budget at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Second point: It was said yesterday again and again: Well, compare it with other European countries! We're still relatively mild! Let's look at the UK, they're going to be really bad, or we're looking at Ireland or Iceland! . So our reference points have changed dramatically in the last few days and weeks, because we are now again taking a very conservative austerity course, as I mean, very politically motivated, as followed in the UK. If this is the reference point, then: No, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. But let's look at the UK! . The measures put in place in the savings sector cover two thirds of the social sector. The same thing happens in Austria! I'm already confessing to: In Austria for a potency lower than in the UK! But Great Britain can, please, really not be the benchmark for when and where and why we want to cut in the social field in Austria. But this has obviously become a reference point for you. For me, what is going on in the UK or what is now being done there by a conservative-liberal-democratic government is really very brutal. This is a robbery of the future and a robbery of people to the potency. No question at all! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's why you're right: We're not running like in the UK! Okay. But I emphasize: For two thirds, the savings in the field of social affairs are also being made in Austria as well as in the United Kingdom. You have actually set these savings with the budget path in spring. It has already been clear since spring that, for example, in the field of care, a sum of more than € 300 to 350 million will be saved by 2014. At the same time, go and take these 350 million € from the care area they have taken away from the people and say: With this we finance the care fund! So something's wrong. Let's go through it in a row! What you are doing in the area of social affairs is not yet the social ballast, right, but individual measures are worth looking at, and it is noted that: They are not just, and they are in part absurd and evil toward men! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the field of care – I have already begun –: The savings amount to a lot, and they are achieved by the fact that there is almost exclusively aggravation at care levels 1 and 2. In other words, access to the care allowance is becoming more difficult at care levels 1 and 2, and this means a massive increase for people, for family members, for those affected. Otherwise, you will not be able to achieve the savings effect of € 350 million until 2014. Is that okay? Is that fair? Does that make sense? – You know just as well as I do that a lot of services in the family sector are provided by neighbors, by friends and friends, by relatives, and at some point – at least my knowledge – we have to find out from practice that we take up the one thing, namely the provision of benefits in kind, against the other, the very modest money in the field of care levels 1 and 2. With the cash benefits of care levels 1 and 2 you can pay hourly wages of two to three euros. So, in fact, you can do it. You don't really pay anyone for the care you care for. It all knows for years that, in fact, the benefits of care levels 1 and 2, which are only intended for people from the family, family, friends and family members, are not a great relief. And still the cut is done there. We all know that 80 percent or 70 percent of all care services are provided at all stages of family care. Nevertheless, the cut is done there. Is that fair? Is that fair? Does that make sense? And please do not come back to me, Mr Social Minister, with the statement: Well, at the nursing levels 1 and 2 the care money is often considered a bread for the caregivers! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In addition, in the field of care levels 1 and 2 the persons concerned are those who have the lowest pensions. That's right! And yet, the 80-year-old grandmother or the 90-year-old grandfather or vice versa, because most of the time women will be older, usually using this money – and you know that from investigations – to buy care or care services in the widest sense. That's happening! And it's good that it happens. And only there will be saved?! – No, Mr Sozialminister, certainly not with us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think this is basically wrong because you act as if these savings or tightenings in this area could be compensated for by more benefits in kind. It's not going to work! People can't buy that! They do not have the money and there is not the necessary care! This “Hin- and Her-game” is basically wrong and indeed a drastic aggravation for those concerned! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third point: Pensions. – Of course, I am now missing the time to tell everything in detail, but, Mr Wöginger, a comment has already been allowed: The ÖVP or ÖAAB, whose representatives have always come out to the speaker's desk and... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] I told Wöginger. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, you said oillingers!]] So that you've been bragging about the long-term insured pension, vulgo hackler scheme, so the representation of the ÖAAB in the form of the colleague Wöginger comes out here and says: We can't afford to do this, people go to bed too early! We are now specifically talking about those who have worked for at least 45 years or 47, 48 years! [[Abg. Head: That's not true!]] All of this is in line with the rules you decide on for the period from next year onwards. These are not those people who are short in working life, but for these you sharpen it. And that is the point we need to talk about seriously. Of course, we can talk about these people going to retirement with lower supplements. Only: Then tell me to what extent it is fair to be able to go to the long-term insured pension at the age of 42 in public service, while if you are in the private sector, you will need to be a man 47 years old when you get up at the age of 15! [[Abg. Wöger: You don't need it!]] Of course! Tell me where justice produces! This is unfair, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we will not participate in such hush-fush regulations. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] They would have had our willingness to accept a system with which we basically regulate the care with which we regulate pensions. We would have been willing to discuss this in principle, but not in the same way that you, Mr Wöginger, do, as if the pension schemes, of which you yourself say they are unfair, were created at some point. They've grown on your dung or on the ÖVP/FPÖ government! That's how it looks! Making yourself a great reformer now and saying: We want to make all this fairer and change again, so you deny the story of the last years, in which some other rulers in this house were involved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I'm sure we're not! We have clearly explained our position. And I'll tell you one thing: It must be socially just – and unfortunately it is not!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14763	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14785	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately this was once again very typical of the FPÖ, your speech, Mr Kickl: She was polemic, she was humane, and you talked badly! [[Abg. New builder: She was good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That's the only thing you can do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Stop your fairy tales!]] Remember: What happened when you took responsibility for government? There was the highest unemployment rate in this country. There were very many young people who had no work. And you made a real pension reduction at the time by taking away the so-called overeating of the pensioners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I don't know!]] You don't like to remember that! [[Abg. Kickl: I don't know!]] And on this occasion I would like to say: Your Mr Klubobmann is not particularly interested in social policy, otherwise he would be here in the hall at this early morning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But, he's very interested!]] In my further remarks, I would like to focus on the issue of the labour market and to highlight what has been completely misrepresented by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Neubauer: If you earn so much, you can...!]] In order to cope with the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, our Federal Government has committed a great deal of financial resources. And it turns out that this decision was necessary and correct, because the impact of the economic and financial crisis is less dramatic in our country than in many other European countries. The measures taken by the two economic packages and the labour market packages and the record budget relating to labour market policy were correct steps at the right time. As a result, Austria has been one of the countries of Europe with the lowest unemployment for months and I believe that we can all be very proud of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should like to remind you briefly of what were the positive aspects and what led to the fact that unemployment in Austria was happily kept low. These were, for example: Short-time work, qualification measures, improvements in foundations, educational careers, but also opportunities in connection with professions, such as the possibility of learning skills in so-called future professions. Health and social affairs should be mentioned in the first place. These measures, ladies and gentlemen, have taken good action. By November 2010, 560 176 people had been able to resume work thanks to the support of the AMS, and the AMS course offer was also well used with over 263,000 people. We have around 3 299 000 people in our country who are engaged. It has succeeded in maintaining and creating over 60 000 jobs in Austria more than in the previous year. That is, on the one hand, we have been able to make a bit of a bet on the hole created by the crisis, and we have also recorded a record of employment in Austria in November. That is a good thing, that is true, the measures taken by our Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is also very important to me and what needs to be stressed is that the measures for young people – and I call them the measures in the framework of “Action Future Youth” – have also been taken by young people. They have the opportunity to either obtain training in a profession in a teaching workshop or to go on the school training course. This means that our young people have good future prospects compared to those in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, although the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection must save the largest overall contribution in the budget from all sectors, this is done in a socially acceptable way. It is very important for me to stress in this context that, despite the happy decline in unemployment, we have the third highest budget in relation to labour market policy measures at our disposal. This makes it quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that our Federal Government with Chancellor Werner Faymann will continue the successful fight against unemployment. For us, one thing is crucial: Every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much. Then: A high employment rate, secure jobs with a good income are the prerequisite that, on the one hand, the excellent social system we have in Austria can continue to be maintained; and the second is that we reduce poverty by means of a high employment rate and save many people the fate that they become unemployed, that they are excluded, that they no longer have prospects, which then often ends in despair and disease. It is worth fighting to reduce these negative effects of unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say one thing very clearly: In many other countries, social achievements have been reduced. We in Austria have chosen another way. We have introduced the need-oriented minimum guarantee, a social policy improvement that benefits more than 270 000 people in Austria. According to the principle of aid for self-help, on the one hand, it has succeeded in protecting people from poverty, but on the other hand in providing them with assistance so that they can be reintegrated into the work process. What is also very important and crucial to me in relation to this budget is that there are also improvements in relation to disability pension. I should like to mention briefly: The disability pension is €117 for men and €640 for women. Here there will be a change in relation to the deposits, the discounts will be shortened. That is, the I-pensionists will receive an increase of 1.2 percent of their pension. There are many other positive approaches that my following speakers will address further. Finally, let me say the following: It is very important and crucial that the two top principles continue to apply to us, namely, to do all we can to ensure that jobs are maintained so that people can find employment with an income that they can get through with, on the other hand, the purchasing power is guaranteed. This budget is a crucial contribution, and I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14938	Mrs Haubner has now come to the fore. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e14959	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on TV screens! We all need to tighten the belt in order to master the crisis in order to clean up the state budget in order to bind up a budget package that will give the next generations opportunities – something you, ladies and gentlemen, have heard over and over again in the past few weeks. I'm asking you, I'm wondering: Are everyone really holding on to it with the belt-closer screw? What about those who are politically responsible when it comes to narrowing the belt, structural reforms, and reforms of the system that are finally going on, in the health system, in the school system? What about a job reform? Who really asks himself sustainablely: What needs, what does a state need today, in the 21st century? - Century, still paying? What about the reduction of political bodies in those who now bear political responsibility? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And how does it look to deal with taxpayers when I think only about the high party promotions? I say, ladies and gentlemen, we have a great imbalance here, we have a great disproportionateness, because the reorganisation of the budget consists, on the one hand, of cuts and cancellations of benefits and, on the other hand, of tax increases and the introduction of new taxes. The main load, ladies and gentlemen, is borne by families, drivers, caregivers and people with disabilities, students, students, as well as the older generation. They pay the price for a load package that is not forward-looking, which is not performance-oriented. They pay the price for a red-black government, which is increasingly losing the sense of the real life situation of thousands of people. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Please go!]] They pay the price for a government that always promises a lot before the elections and after the elections – see 13. Family aid – always very much deleted. Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of social, but also of generation-righteousness, we demand from the BZÖ at this point again very clearly to save in the system and not on the back of people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Social Report shows it very clearly, Minister of State: Still, a million people are at risk of poverty, especially the elderly, especially the families with children. And it shows: Every child reduces prosperity. We see that single parents – these are women in particular – do not deal with income because income cannot keep the balance with the cost of living. Performance is no longer paid out for many, since nothing has changed in recent years. It is you, Mr Federal Minister, who should know how important transfers and their arm-fighting effect are. It is therefore incomprehensible for me, for the BZÖ, that two thirds of the budget measures, the savings measures, the cuts must pay the families and the caregivers. If you say again and again, Minister of State, there is no less money spent in the field of care, then I have to say: This is relatively irrelevant for those who receive less care money in the future or who do not receive care money at all – that is in about 24,000 people – because they feel other things. They feel that they don't deal with the care money even today. 60 percent of the costs can no longer be covered in real terms. The Court of Auditors has correctly stated that there is currently no security against the financial risk of the need for care. We will therefore continue to ask for vehemently not only at this point, but also in all further parliamentary deliberations and meetings: The care allowance must be adjusted, the care allowance must be valorised – because if fees and rates are adjusted annually to the index, this must also apply to the care allowance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister, especially the care sector – I have often told you – is becoming more and more a major construction site, a large building site, where nothing goes on. Where you should set pace, in the area of financing, stop working groups. Now you're talking about two stage plans coming up with a solution by 2014. But there is nothing going on where it is about reforms – in care-care procedures, in the creation of uniform criteria. Fast you are only when it comes to shortening benefits, and fast you are when it comes to limiting people with disabilities here as well. As far as people with disabilities are concerned, I would like to say once again that: They do not enjoy the highest priority in this Federal Government. I just remember the budget speech of the “banking minister” who has not mentioned with a word the people with disabilities and the concerns and concerns they have. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Colleague Lapp, who was the SPÖ’s spokesperson for the disabled in 2004, said – I remember – at the time: The disabled are on the waiting bench with this black and blue-orange government. Now I ask you, Mrs Lapp: What are the disabled now when accessibility is relocated? – They're still sitting on the waiting bench, and I say they're sitting in the distance more than ever. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A second construction site, ladies and gentlemen, is the pensions, where the costs are exploding, where the systems are still opaque. No one knows each other. Not without reason 53 percent of Austrians say they lack confidence in this pension system. Instead of giving courage to shape this system in such a way that it is sustainable to achieve sustainable compliance with generations, you will only take cost-effective measures in the short term. Because Mr Csörgits spoke of the government's real pension reductions by 2006, I must say: For real pension cuts, you are not fad either! They reintroduce the shift in the first Valorization of new pensions. They create difficult access to the hacker board. The hackler's pension, which in its original form – 45 years to work, 45 years to pay – has been an excellent form of pension, has been softened, it's being doctored around it. And now one even breaks the principle of trust, trust protection by raising the age by one step by two years. You are not fad even when you delete the single-earner discount amount. This is true of pensioner couples who have chosen a life model at a given time, where they have said they are going to earn one and the other – mostly the woman – remains at home in the sense of freedom of choice and is caring for and educating the children. They are now being punished, because the possibility of asserting this single-earner discount is being taken away from them. And it is not only the Director-General and the rich widows, but above all the hard-working “normal citizens” who are now losing this single-earner discount. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: As long as there are pension privileges at the ÖBB, at the National Bank, at high political pensions, the small ones, the hard-working and the skilled are not to be asked for cash. For this we will also use the BZÖ accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With our new pension model, we take a step in the right direction. We have developed something that corresponds to the higher life expectancy. We have developed something that also strengthens self-responsibility, self-responsibilities, and that, above all, also builds on generation-righteousness. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to quote a statement from the Federal Chancellor, who said in an interview I read yesterday: There are damn injustices. – Interesting to hear from a German chancellor. I can only agree with him. But I think that for someone who has responsibility, this knowledge alone is too little. I wonder, Why is this Federal Chancellor doing nothing with his government in order to eliminate these “damn injustices ”? Why isn't he acting? And why does he show a lack of social responsibility here? For us from BZÖ, social responsibility means that we assume responsibility for the generations, that we think and act in the sense of the coming generations, that we save on the system and not on people and that we invest where the future is: in education, in the family, in research and in quality care. And this, ladies and gentlemen, also understand people. That is what people want, this honesty and this reliability. And if that's the case, they'll be ready to get a little bit tighter with themselves occasionally.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15041	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the following speakers receive the clock as agreed, but from now on there is a maximum speaking time limit of 9 minutes per speaker. Mr Haberzettl is the next one to speak. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15071	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, you can start by calling! I'll tell you what I think if I look at you in the face: I think there's an accident pension tax on me, and I think I'm going to have an ambulance fee. And if you want to, I can tell you an hour more about what atrocities happened to you, Mr Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Privilegänder!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me fade back to 2008. [[Abg. Grosz: Tell us about the privileges at the ÖBB!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Mr Bucher, you can't take a train, you don't know yourself on the railway, and you don't know about health. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Superior Privilege Knights of the Nation are you!]] Let me fade back to 2008. In 2008, a unanimous decision was taken here in this House on the subject of long-term insurance schemes not to take note of the expiry of the long-term insurance scheme in 2008 but to extend the so-called hackler scheme until 2013. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Your train left!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Book]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your train has already left!]] Of course, it was known at that time that this derogation or this special scheme for long periods of insurance will end in 2013. Now there was the possibility, while respecting the protection of trust in this issue, of either making a slow transitional arrangement – starting with the age of 65 – or finding a reasonable, portable solution in the sense of long-term insured persons. I believe that this spatula in this area has been successful. The entry age will now be increased to 62 years from 2014. The fact is that this increase is not gradual, but in one step, but it is also a permanent solution. There is a transitional solution for women, which, Mr Oellinger, is a little weak. And a replacement time calculation is only available for children's education times and for presence services. In the context of the long-term insurance scheme, however, it is also necessary to discuss the change in the area of invalidity pension. In the disability pension package, there is already a very significantly changed access, namely that the issue of rehabilitation focuses on first. We do not want to put people into retirement, but rather try to ensure their health through rehabilitation. In the future, any application for I-pension will be preceded by a request for rehabilitation as a result of this decision. However, there are also very significant improvements in the area of deductions, while recognizing the difficult situation of those who have to go to invalidity pension. If we assume that the average disability pension for women is € 640 and € 117 for men and a maximum discount of 15 percent is currently being made, this discount will be reduced to 13.8 percent in the future. This means a small improvement of 1.2 percent for the invalidity pension recipients. However, the improvement of the reduction in disability associated with heavy work is, I believe, even more important. In the last 20 years, if ten years of serious work have been carried out, the application shall be as from 57. A maximum of 11 per cent of the pension's pension age – up to now it was 15 per cent. However, there is also a reduction in the number of pensions, i.e.: For uneducated workers, a fictitious professional protection will now take place from the age of 50. ............................................................................................................................................................................. This should be done if they are only able to carry out very light activities because they are accordingly ill. This Regulation shall apply for the first time until 2015 and shall be subject to monitoring. The current scheme is also prolonged in the area of part-time age. Finally, a few remarks: I think Austria has made the way out of the economic crisis. It is not true, however, that the economic crisis itself is over completely. I think it is undisputed that the bank package was necessary, but it is also undisputed that the economic package was necessary. We all knew, however, when these packages were decided, that if the economy stabilises again, it is also to be saved. And this Federal Government has for the first time succeeded in taking the first step in the field of capital growth taxation under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Faymann to take the first step in the area of a bank tax. There were changes in the tax base, and there were changes in group taxation on purchases. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unfortunately no changes at the ÖBB!]] Nor should we forget that, as already mentioned, labour market data are excellent in Europe. I believe that in the course of the discussion on how we share the loads, it has also been clear and clearly demonstrated that this is a very difficult spagate – I think we have made it. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] At the same time, however, I would like to stress that the pressure towards a tax reform has grown enormously in order to achieve greater justice here. I would like to quote here Federal Chancellor Faymann, who said that we should try to bring another tax reform in the sense of justice to the stage during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15206	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has now come to speak. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15227	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, To my previous speaker a word: Of course, it's particularly pious when the ÖBB trade union is making itself here and says: We don’t want to “press” people into the pension!, if you know, on the other hand, that ÖBB’s retirement age has also fallen compared to the previous year and now the ÖBB staff already retire at an average of 51 years – and this in the light of the fact that all other employees in that country really take off the last shirt! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] A red and white red card will be greatly praised by the social partners, applied – Mr Federal Minister, you have stood up and sold it as a success – but not in everything where red-and-white-red stands on it is also red-and-white-red. Because if you look at what the point system looks like for this red-and-white red card, you already have some questions. For example, you get 20 points for your age alone, i.e. if you are under 30 years old; if you have Matura, you get 25 points; if you have three years of professional experience you get 6 points. That means you already have the necessary 50 points together, for example, if you are a 29-year-old maturant. Then you already have the right to get the red-and-white red card here, so to speak, without having to have a reputation for failure. And that, although we know that we already have 33,000 unemployed people in Austria with Matura levels – they are already in Austria, and then these people are to be “imported”. Fleischhauer – we know this at the latest since the last committee – is, as it were, the big deficit in Austria. Fleischhauer from all over the world can now come to Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: Fleischzerlege, Minister!]] But the carnivorer doesn't have it that easy, because he has a real flaw job, but, unlike the maturant, he gets only 20 points. This red and white red card is really completely pointless, opaque and does not bring the effect we actually expected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at your further labour market policy, Federal Minister! They are committed to providing 50 percent of the AMS budget for women. – Mr Federal Minister, but only 41 percent of the unemployed are women! There is a discrepancy, and I wonder how you really want to reduce the unemployment rate if you say that women need to get more, although there are fewer unemployed women. This shows the futility of how at all this whole gender budget is not made meaningful. There are simply fixed numbers without paying attention to the needs. That's what you do in your budget. The whole thing goes even further. You are now doing great advertising with the slogan: “True men go into Karenz!” – So the “fine men” are then those who work. At the same time, for example, you know that many men cannot go to Karenz because they do not get free or because they have problems at work. They would then buy it, that on the one hand, the women who go to Karenz will have problems with the employer, but on the other hand also the men who then go to Karenz. They know that these problems exist in times of a strained labour market, but this is what they demand. I know there's a good example, that's our disabled lawyer who wants to go to Karenz now. Hardly has he become a disabled lawyer, but the situation for the disabled has already deteriorated considerably. And you know that, Minister of State! Mr. Buchinger was hardly a disabled lawyer, he announced that he wanted to stop. And what's now? – Now the accessibility for the disabled has been postponed, and nothing happens. The care allowance is reduced – and you are now standing down and saying that not a euro is spent less. Mr. Federal Minister, for everyone who is now in nursing level 1, it is – damn again! – much, much more difficult to obtain care level 2. It's the only way he'll get less money. And those who want to get new into this system are doing much, much harder to get care money at all. And what does it look like once again to be controls? Can you guarantee that someone who is 3 or 2 today will not fall? – You can't guarantee that! That means, of course, there is a real reduction in the care sector. They're poor people, they're sick people, and they're saving them! At their expense, we will be saved so that we can pay the minimum security to people who are not willing to work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know very well that in Hungarian, Romanian, Bulgarian daily newspapers, there are already annoncens with which people are offered residence in Austria for three months. You only have to report, then you get the head office in Austria and you can obtain the minimum security. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: It's such a fool!]] This means that you will save the caregivers in order to give the money to foreigners. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We in Austria want them to have the minimum guarantee that they will be able to live a fine life in their home countries in Eastern Europe. This is your social policy! Mr Federal Minister, you know very well – we have already explained this in committee –: This minimum security is not against abuse, quite the contrary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] You know exactly, the assets of people living abroad are not detectable! You have not been able to explain to us in the committee how you want to review this. You have no way to check that out. That is, there is a preference for foreigners here. They can have a house in Romania, in Hungary and still receive the minimum guarantee here, while Austrian citizens who have assets do not receive any money. This is a redistribution of caregivers, of people who need the money, from socially weak to foreigners who have never worked with us, who only come to take advantage of the social system! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is your social policy. – Mr Federal Minister, you have resigned as a Social Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15322	Mr Bartenstein is now speaking. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15359	Madam President. Minister Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I was in the same committee as my previous speaker, and I felt the remarks of the Lord – in this case – Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject of minimum security as being coherent. To exclude 100 percent abuse, this will be difficult, but to exclude abuse within our legal system as far as possible, that is intended. And there comes – hand to heart! – a lot of responsibility to countries too. This too Minister Hundstorfer concluded. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the last minutes, in the last hour, by the opposition is a lot of cuts the talk, of belt-singer-snalls, O-Ton Ursula Haubner. Let's look at the numbers. What's it look like? What is the point of this country's desire for social affairs, in which there is a fundamental consensus, to want to have a high social level, to have a basic consensus among all sitting here, and to develop it more punctually, depending on the possibilities? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Social Report of the Minister tells us that in 2009 the social ratio increased to the new record level of 30.7 percent of our total economic performance – a relatively abstract number. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We spend €84.1 billion per year in this country for social matters – also a relatively abstract number. I can break them down to the respective Austrian and the respective Austrian: This is more than €10,000 per Austrian spent on social affairs – more than €10,000 per head and nose! And this is very tangible and shows at what high level this welfare state of Austria continues to be managed and managed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I know that some of these are also crisis-related – well clear, when people become unemployed, they have to be countered, and, and, of course, the social ratio is also above 30 percent due to crisis, and we are not entirely at the top of Europe, but at least in the top six, in the upper quarter of the EU countries, what is going on in social services. Point two: Labour market. Mr Minister, I can say briefly that the figures speak for themselves. Mrs Csörgits, you have said quite in detail that the development of the labour market is really very encouraging. Above all in retrospect, we can say that the measures put in place were the right ones. The crisis was not only well, but extremely well handled, so at this point my thanks to the AMS once again. You know, and I know what we are talking about, the social partners here in this House know this too. It's going very well. If we are in a kind of finale with the Dutch – football it is not, we would not have a chance – to match the first place within the European Union – that is also the tradition – that is good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On what the liberals say once again – I would like to say almost in deplorable terms: of themselves, but this formulation is certainly considered –, ladies and gentlemen, that the red-and-white red card is so bad, the following: Read international newspapers, even in these, the red and white red card is recognized as a useful instrument. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: In international, that's logical!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I'm surprised, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, that you already know how this will work out. This is assessed as a useful access tool. Yes, we Austrians use it for us. We want to find out who's coming to us. If you have the right qualification, you should come, and if you don't, please don't. This will be dealt with and designed strictly according to the labour market and its needs and is a useful extension and development of existing instruments relating to key forces and so on. Mr Kickl, what you have once again painted on the wall in terms of transitional periods – he is, I believe, not at the moment in the hall; does nothing, makes a speech. [[Abg. Kickl: ( sitting in the last bank series) Here!]] - Ah, back. [[Abg. Kickl: So I can see you better!]] Okay. Maybe there's a place that'll be for you, too. [[Abg. Neubauer: But you have also been sitting behind! You've been sitting on the government bank before!]] Mr Kickl, it won't be better because you bring it back every time. We Austrians believe that we have our labour market so well that we have 1. In the case of immigration, it will be possible to deal well with May when the transitional periods fall. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] The latter on a subject which is also my heart and where I am not quite satisfied, because the exception has become the rule and because it has probably become something like the "Achillesfears" of our social system, our pension system, namely, the famous hackler scheme. It is not true that this was introduced as a regular case, how Ursula Haubner wanted to express it. No, the 2000 pension reform – some of them remember – is: Increase in the retirement age from 60 to 61.5 years, suspension for three transitional years; no more. The hackler scheme was used by 4,000 people in 2001. Do you know how many it was last year? - 27,000! The exception has become the rule case. Do you know what the hacker regulation costs us today in relation to a status where it would not exist? – 2 billion € per year! We're talking about a lot, much smaller amounts that we have to save there and there and we're hurting them. 2 billion € per year! And if it were at least the hackers who are favoured by the construction, the shifts are working in large industrial plants, at night and fog, in cold and heat, but they are not the ones that can take advantage of the hackers' pension, but they are officials, they are other servants who have just continuous employment conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Cases of sin have just happened, one after another, especially in 2008, when replacement times were provided particularly cheaply or free of charge. And now it is the case that the PVA, ladies and gentlemen, has 300 requests for post-purchasing times per day to be processed! 300 applications! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] A real run has taken place. That is why it is important and right that Social Minister Hundstorfer has developed first countermeasures here – from my point of view, they could have gone further; there you will find the approach of a dissertation. But a start is made, and so the social state is well developed. The 30.7 percent social rate speaks for itself. We are and remain a state in which it can live well. [[Abg. Neubauer: All the others now know that too!]] And if it's not that good, then you're socially secure.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15517	Now comes Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15539	Mrs. National Council President! Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues! High house! Today on savings: This is, of course, a subject that no one is happy about. We must save, but the savings are against the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities – unfortunately. I should like to raise some of these points. We are aware that we need to build barrier-free, but the deadline will be postponed. But what has not been noticed: If the Ministry does not take measures into account in the part-map plan, it is not obliged to comply with this either. Who checks compliance? - That's not clear. Who is responsible for this? – In the UN Convention, Article 9 describes exactly what accessibility means. It is not only about buildings, Braille writing, sign language interpretation; it is very well described. On the subject of work and labour market: Of course, we know that people with disabilities are still very affected, and the poverty rate has been increased. What we must not forget – and I would simply like to repeat there; some think it might be only 10,000 people with disabilities, but no –: There are 1.6 million people with disabilities in Austria, chronically ill. This is a very large group in Austria. There is a great misunderstanding in this regard. That's not a small group. I miss something in the package of measures: The compensation tax is too low. The amount must be at least higher than the minimum content. Why should a company recruit a disabled person, what is the advantage for a company? We need to show role models what disabled people can do with the strengths they have. You have to show the whole package, and I miss it here. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that we have already talked about this, and I would like to return to it once again, Mr Minister, on the subject of labour market, coaching, job coaching, work assistance – there are savings. And you, Mr Minister, have said – I hope I can take you to the floor – that no savings will be made in this area. I have your promise, don't I? - Good. The topic of care allowance: In this area too, it is saved. And who is particularly affected? – Dementia and children. The Article-15a agreement has been adopted, you already know. That is why I make the following request here – I read it –: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I wanted to say with it: Of course, these points are not everything, there is still so much we could talk about: that the spray price has increased for people with disabilities, some things have been lost, the double family allowance is deleted. One problem in studying is the restrictions on access, the structural measures are postponed. On the one hand, the structural measures are being postponed, but on the other hand, we say: Study You faster! - I can't. You have to think about how to do this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The topic of savings: For me, it is very important – I understand, of course, that you have to save – that you invite disabled people, experts on your own and discuss with them at a table what you can do, which measures are not better to be implemented. I miss that. I think you know the UN convention very well. This says that disabled people are to be included. The National Action Plan will be presented next year, and this is also part of it. I hope that you will then accept these measures, because the UN Convention is not a recommendation, but Austria has ratified it, signed it and committed itself to turning it into law. Unfortunately, I don't see much of it so far. What, please, is being implemented? Has She might have seen or heard something? - No, so you don't wonder, nothing. I hope for a Christmas miracle! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15660	The one that Mrs Magnifice has just given me. The motion for a resolution tabled by Jarmer is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15714	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15736	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Haubner and Mrs Jarmer! They are drawing a picture of Mr Hundstorfer, who I do not entirely agree with. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It was still mildly formulated!]] It is not true that disability policy is on the waiting list. It's not like that. Nor is it the case that the Federal Minister for Disabled Organisations does not involve disabled organisations, quite the contrary. If you look at what has happened in the area of disability in the last two years, then you have to see the positive – or can you see, if you want to. [[Abg. May. Widmann: cutbacks, cuts, cuts!]] I would like to make a few positive points. For example, accident insurance in employment treatments was implemented last year. The improvement of the confidence of the disabled person has been enforced, the modification of the classification criteria. The budget for accompanying assistance, for work assistance, which has already been addressed, has not been reduced and will not be shortened. A vocational training law for young people with disabilities has been improved. There is a basis for an Austrian drug hotline. I also believe that the changed protection of termination will hopefully contribute to the integration of even more disabled people into the labour market, because I am convinced that the best means of inclusion is participation in the labour market and thus the possibility of self-determined life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The national action plan, Mrs Jarmer, which has already been discussed, will also help to raise the awareness of all ministries, offices, countries, communities and, I hope, the minds of the people, that it will also be a matter of reducing social barriers to people with disabilities. This initiative was also launched by Federal Minister Hundstorfer and will be completed next year – with the involvement of all actors. Of course, that's how it is done. All areas of life of people with disabilities will also be included in this national action plan. At the meeting of the Federal Disability Advisory Council, it was clearly stated that it is a matter of looking at human rights, of looking at accessibility, of looking at education, of looking at the labour market, of focusing, above all, on self-determined life for people with disabilities, as well as on health and rehabilitation. I think that this is a very, very important step to actually contribute more to the inclusion of people with disabilities. I am entirely of your opinion, Mrs Jarmer, that it should be considered, above all, the strengths of people with disabilities and not the deficits. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Donabauer.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Austria, the Federal Government and also we, the Parliament, are taking the concerns of people with disabilities very seriously also shows that Austria has been one of the few states that sent the state report in good time. Austria has also been praised for this. It has also been done that disabled organisations have been involved, because it is important not to make disability policies from the top down, but to do them with the people concerned. Mrs Jarmer, because, like some other Members, you have mentioned extending the time limit for accessibility, I would like to say something about this. This was also a point for me and also for colleagues Huainigg, who did not give a great deal of support. I am very glad that it has succeeded in bringing about a change in this area, because this extension will no longer apply to accessibility in general. They all know that ministries have to publish their part-mapping plans on their websites by the end of the year. These part-mapping plans have also been developed to a large extent with the ÖAR. As a result, this has not been decreed by anyone, but has been jointly developed. I am convinced that ministries, which have already implemented a lot in the area of accessibility, will not now make their efforts. I don't think that's going to happen; I'm actually convinced of it. And we all know that this extension of accessibility has happened because of this because some ministries are housed in old buildings. For these ministries, there is to be this special arrangement, and I am convinced that everyone else will comply with their partial plans. I have a few comments on the care allowance. So often today it has been said that the care allowance is reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, this is always the case. It is indeed true that the seven-stage classification procedure is maintained. It is indeed true that the care money is preserved as a cash benefit. How much has been interpreted in advance! These things will remain, and no one in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, will lose only one euro or one cent on TV screens, which is now in the care money system. [[Abg. Neubauer: Wrong!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] All people will receive the same benefit, including those who only have temporary notices. [[Abg. Neubauer: Read the rating!]] However, in the next few years, ladies and gentlemen, we all know this because it is simply that demographic development will force us to do so, and partly the financial situation of the communities. [[Abg. Neubauer: Since when do we know the demographic development?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Since the crisis!]] Here too, Federal Minister Hundstorfer is on a very, very good path, because he has come into discussions with the countries and the care fund will remedy, because it is simply important that we maintain the care money system in this quality as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the challenges of the future are very large in many areas, not only in the area of care money. However, I am convinced that it is not appropriate, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, to divide society, but we must ensure that social peace is safeguarded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Your favourite foreigner!]] This does not happen with polemics and populism, but with responsible politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15910	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e15932	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Stricking, shorting, driving – this moves like a red thread through the budget at the expense of people who don't have it so easy in life or have a little harder from home than others. It affects people with disabilities, it affects the sick, it concerns workers. Savings of €1.4 billion are compared with tax increases of €1.2 billion. The budget deficit continues to rise. The debts of ASFINAG, ÖBB, social security institutions, countries and municipalities are still not taken into account. That's it. The budget deficit would actually have to be included, as the EU is now preparing in the future. Then it looks very different again. Then this budget deficit is rising, and the Financial Stability Pact is still pending, Mr Matznetter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] I remember very well the year 2006, just before the National Council election. That's where the SPÖ even called the care emergency. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, yes!]] Nothing's passed up to this day. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now you're still shortening in care. Access to care level 1 and care level 2 is difficult. This is not all, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. It is not so if someone already has the care level 1 or 2 that he remains at this level, because if he has a follow-up examination, he can fall out there as well. [[Abg. New builder: Due to the... Regulation!]] That's it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Stay with the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A large fraction on the revenue side is the increase in mineral oil tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] This increase in mineral oil tax with 4 cents on petrol and 5 cents on diesel is a tax on the tax and meets the many commuters in Austria. We have around 1.8 million counterparts, and only 56 percent of these can even apply for a penalty, the rest of them fall out. These are part-time workers, these are employees in atypical professions and so on. [[Abg. Neubauer: Exactly!]] If someone doesn't go to work for eleven days, he'll fall out anyway. That's all changed, Minister of Social Affairs. That's a change. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer shakes his head.]] I know you're not responsible for that now. That is where the Minister of Banks is responsible. But you could encourage this as a social minister that this will finally be changed to a mile-dependent donor aid. That would be right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What gives me to think: It is the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion this year. I have to say, I'm surprised. The labour market is cheered up, and the former Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein has also said that the figures are pleasing. That's what I'm saying: Of course, the unemployment rate is very low in Austria. That's what we're all proud of. That's not a question. But what surprises me so much is that the income shears continue to disperse and every eighth in Austria is at risk of poverty. After all, this is a million people in Austria who are vulnerable to poverty. And in times of rising indebtedness and in times of financial crisis, the funds for debt advice are also reduced, Mr. Social Minister and Minister for Consumer Protection. That's what gives me to think, too. This is not in the sense of the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: You have to be able to read numbers!]] I'm coming to the labour market. Mr Maier, in the case of the unemployed, of course, those who are in training are not included, and those who have never been in an employment relationship are not included in these statistics. These are especially young people. No issue has yet been the older workers. Stay longer in working life, just how? There are no specific measures to be taken here. I read time and again in trade union magazines, in columns of workers' chambers, the factor of work that belongs to relieves. Yes, do something at last! [[Prolonged condolences with BZÖ.]] There are many social partners here in Parliament and also in the Federal Government, but they are not doing anything. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You were there... foundations and speculators!]] Nothing you do! Empty words from your side, that's the social democracy that doesn't do anything for people, does zero, zero! That's it. That's the truth. [[Call to the SPÖ:We are a parliament!]] What about social security? Expenditure on social security institutions is increasing. How to save is a mystery to me. We still have the luxury of 22 different social security institutions. We need accident insurance, health insurance, pension insurance. The approaches were made at the time when we brought together the pension insurance institution of the workers and the employees. Today I still miss a combination of everyone. The General Pension Act would have created the conditions for this, only you still sit on the armchairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Mr Donabauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Everything is calculated at the social insurance institution of the self-employed. What do you need so many Director-Generals in every federal state for? This is only at the expense of the farmers, these contributions that exist. It's all brought together once. That's how it belongs once in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can still say something about the long-term insurance scheme. With the long-term insurance scheme, it is always said that we need to raise the age of retirement. Those men who fall into the long-term insurance scheme, in the hackler scheme, retire on average at about 61 years. I don't need to raise anything there! Where the average retirement age is 58,5 years, I have to hire those who have the privileges that they can go early. [[Abg. Hagen: (on Abg. Haberzettl wiesend) The Haberzettl...!]] Special provisions, such as the repurchasing of social security periods and so on, should be included in this area. There is no turning to better generation-righteousness. I miss all of this in the budget. No sustainable measures have been taken, but only minor changes, a reduction in the cost explosion in pensions. These savings alone are far too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] Letter You're behind your ears! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need a pension system to which the Austrians and also the young generation can rely and where they can expect to receive a pension in the future. Different pension insurance institutions and contributions must belong to the past. We need a future-oriented system. Now a word on robbery and attack on people with disabilities, ladies and gentlemen. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== There is now a deterioration in the protection of the termination of disadvantaged people. They must be in a service relationship for four years – up to now it has been six months – so that they receive it. And the NOVA liberation for these people is also abolished. You wear it on the back of the poorest. The extension of the time limit for the production of accessibility also. Mrs. Lap, you were an disabled speaker back in 2005, and you said: This deadline until 2016 is far too long. Now she will be extended for another four years, and now, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, you are going out here and saying that this is necessary for these old buildings of the ministries, the Court of Auditors, the Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court and so on. Public procurement for the construction industry fell by 25 percent. The construction industry would boost it if one forced the production of accessibility and would not resettle it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] Yes, but that's exactly what it is, Mrs. Csörgits. This would have to be forced and not resettled. That's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end. Reform in the areas of administration, health, pension and care is essential. Unfortunately, we no longer have a pilot in the Federal Government, but only more system defenders of an obsolete system in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e16223	It spoke to Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer. The total agreed speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e16244	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery and dear ladies and gentlemen at home! I want to and need to make a few things clear here. You have to relativize a few things, and you allow me to say that on a few points I am really deeply shaken at the knowledge of what was said yesterday in the Budgetary Accompaniment Act. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are also horrified at your social policy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] For example, Mr President, it has been said within, for example, that there is a transitional provision in the case of care payments. [[Call at BZÖ: When was there evaluated?]] You just have to read it. It is very clear that the classifications which now exist indefinitely continue on the basis of the current classification regulation and so on. It's all done. You just have to take note of what really stands there. – That's point one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “The care money is increased! You just have to read!” – The arrogance of power!]] I know that a political competitor is trying very hard and with one word always wants to know that there is a certain group of people in that country that is preferred. I know that this word is emotional here and there for certain fellow citizens. You also allow me to say: Keep in mind that the Austrians and the people who live here are not as naïve, not as disillusioned, not as educated as you are. [[Abg. Kickl: Naiv are already you!]] [[Abg. Markowitz: How were you formed?]] Not for as uneducated as you present this. [[Abg. Strache: That was the real joyous promise!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] For example, the family allowance: Family aid goes only to EU citizens' residences where the EU citizen is working here, paying taxes here. [[Abg. Kickl: And what about the unemployed or...! Ah, right! And do they get the minimum security?]] Also ask yourself: When can I even become unemployed? I can only become unemployed if I have fulfilled the conditions here on the domestic labour market. That's where we agree. We should also agree that the minimum guarantee can only be given to foreign citizens on a very special basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you're always here on the 1st. Promising May 2011: It was not I who was in the government back then, in 2004. [[Abg. Strache: You have refused the negotiations!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's where you're talking about the crisis...!]] That's you! - Point one. Point two: I'm in favour of keeping contracts. [[Abg. Kickl: Check that they comply with their contracts!]] . I am in favour of keeping contracts, and I agree that we have been very, very well prepared over the past few years. I agree that we have done much in preparation over the last few years, and we will be doing something here in the House in the next few weeks with wage and social dumping – that is also part of the programme. And it is also a part of the programme that allows third-country nationals with the Red-White Red Card to have ordered, regulated access – if we need it, and that is the very decisive difference. There is no disordered access with the red-and-white red card, just as there is no disordered access to the occupations today, even tomorrow, because we have a very orderly system with very many test procedures in the absence professions today and we will have a similar system tomorrow. [[Abg. Kickl: I already see you on an advertising tour in Africa!]] In between, we changed only one heading: There's a red and white red card. [[Abg. Kickl: Explain to us what you do for your own people!]] [[Call the SPÖ:More than... the others!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz:... that the Matznetter...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Matznetter) Why were you thrown out?]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's sad!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am permitted to bring you a few things in a little closer to the care money. Austria is the world champion in the care money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They will not find any country in the world where, in the relation to the total population, as many people refer care money as in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: You will also find other countries...!]] In the relation to the total population, 5.1 percent of Austrians receive care benefits: The global average of those countries that feel united in the OECD is 2.3 percent; we have 5.1 percent care money. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one in need of care can buy anything about what you're talking about!]] What does this number say? – This figure says that we have an accessible system, and we will also be in The future of this accessible system is due to the fact that all those who do not reach the care level 2 in the future – just as they do today – are automatically classified into the care level 1. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mainly, we pay social assistance for...!]] That does not mean 24 000, because 24 000 is the total number. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And those who already pay?]] In fact, we slow down access for 10,000 people: We currently have an annual access of 60 000, and this annual access of 60 000 is restricted to 50 000. This is the reform that was passed yesterday with the budget accompanying law here. This brake is compatible, it is comprehensible, because in fact we simply continue to have the very well-defined system that exists in the care allowance. [[Abg. Kickl: What are you slowing down at the manager's salaries?]] [[Abg. Street: There, where public funds..., you can't slow anything!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The cheers all, the caregivers!]] [[Abg. Strache: Joy dances on the streets!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Honours!]] The real problem with the care allowance is something quite different. The real problem with care money is, in truth, where people who need social assistance are buying benefits. This increase in social assistance is no longer eligible for funding in many municipalities. This is our real problem, because 42 percent My ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But social assistance for terrorists!]] It is better not to even answer some naïve calls. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As a government representative, I would also be allowed to be here and there a little polemic. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I have to listen to your polemics, too. 42 percent of Austrian care providers buy services and 58 percent do not buy services – 42 percent buy services! Purchasing for services can be anything, and that is simply our real problem: the financing of this service purchase. [[Abg. Kickl: No, the problem is that you have the health system...!]] That is why we, the Federal Government, will be very likely to set up this care fund in the next few days and weeks. We will bring that together accordingly! There are two stages. – Mrs Haubner, I believe we are in agreement that a new financial compensation period will begin in Austria from 2014 and that this will be regulated in the financial compensation period from 2014 to 2020. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] However, we also agree that the Austrian communities also need the most urgent funding in 2011, 2012 and 2013 and that should be regulated at a first stage, because – I believe we agree on this too – the current financial compensation is simply not cut off because of these three years. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We need to solve this with a different design. By the way, you will see that it will continue to be the best accessible and best functioning care money system for all countries united in the OECD. Finally, I would like to make one more comment. Take, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, even if you don't like it, even if you don't like it, to know the following: We have the lowest unemployment rates, we have the greatest decline in long-term unemployed people, we have the greatest drop in youth unemployment and we continue to have a decline in unemployment overall, including the training participants. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ]] [[Abg. New builder: Despite this government!]] These figures are never concealed; they have never been concealed and will not be concealed in the future, because the overall statistics show the figures including the participants. I know it hurts you that you no longer have an area of attack here, but let us finally be glad that we can tell people in Austria: [[Abg. Strache: Well, the McJobs hurt the Austrians! Where is full-time employment? Mr. McJobs!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And what are these jobs?]] If you are 15, 16 years old, you have a training guarantee. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let us be glad that we offer young people perspective, let us be glad that young people are offered training! What I would have expected of you is a request that I now say to you: We must bring it together that every 15-, 16-year-old in this country must make an education after his compulsory schooling – make an education! That's our principle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This has already been said by the climate! The climate has already failed!]] [[Abg. Strache: But why do you fail then?]] There is nothing wrong with this federal government at all, because we are all invited to come to us to develop the training guarantee of the Austrian Federal Government, which is recognized worldwide, because of the entire delegations of labour market administrations in order to look at it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have been promising the Kalauer for 20 years!]] They are all cordially invited to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e16831	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e16853	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, also dear representatives of the opposition! We have a very difficult phase behind us and also before us: a crisis, because, I believe, the people in Austria deserved that we find together political solutions. What is happening here and how is discussed here, this theatre donor, the people in Austria have not deserved that, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Bring solutions! Turn yourself out, tell us how we do it better! I honestly say to you that I have nothing against the democratic right of opposition to bring in 20 requests on which it is voted in the name, to make 100 requests on which it is voted – that is a democratic right, okay – but then I also expect everyone to be like this one the next day, for example Mrs Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We have a duty here in this House to secure the future. And to secure the future is to create a framework within which the economy can create jobs through which people have income, through which we can keep value creation in this country and also secure the livelihoods. I say to you that this budget, which is so badly spoken of, is really a responsible budget for the future of these people! [[Abg. Kickl: Kraut-and-Rüben-Budget!]] However, this budget is also generation-friendly, ladies and gentlemen – it bears in itself the generation tolerance, which is quite, very important, what we can see when we look at demographic developments. In reality, we expect a demographic explosion by 2025, ladies and gentlemen, after which there will be more of us older than young, Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: Since when do you know?]] [[Abg. Strache: For four decades, the anti-family party ÖVP has failed! They weaken the families in Austria!]] There will be more older people than young ones, so we also have to solve these challenges accordingly. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kickl]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Let's not talk about that, but let's take solutions! We need to see how we can secure pensions. We need to see how we can finance the care. And we have to answer the question: What future-oriented health insurance financing do we have? [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Talk to the mayors outside about how they can secure social expenditure, secure care, secure hospital funding! Talk to you! – Yes, you have little opportunity because you don’t have a mayor, I understand. [[Abg. New farmer:... as a farmer... sell...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are making solutions for the boys! Our boys are the leaders of the future. Remember the following: When former employees went to the doctor with the child, they could not go to work. Today it is the other way round, ladies and gentlemen: Today, employees can no longer go to work because they have to go to the doctor with their father and mother. – That’s why I appeal to you: If there are cuts in pensions when there are cuts in cash benefits – yes, they are painful – you can also carry them! I also appeal to the older generation: Take it with you and take responsibility too! And to the representatives of the older generation: Take responsibility for the future too! [[Abg. Strache: Save once at the administration and not at the people! ... banks billions, but with people...! That's a joke!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I come from a group, Mr Strache, which has had a 28 per cent reduction in income. We also assume responsibility in this budget because we share this budget objective in order to save and not only burden people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, the Court of Auditors examined the field of agricultural social security, which works sparingly and efficiently. But we also have a demographic problem that we need to solve, and we will only be able to solve it together. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister of Social Affairs for his handshake quality, for having succeeded in reducing the fictitious exit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, thank you, thank you!]] This is a quality that also encourages me to say: We need this reform partnership! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I ask you, Mr Minister, but also for the following: Take colleagues in your government, such as your colleague Stöger, who wants to tax farmers only unilaterally with AGES contributions and the increase in accident insurance and health insurance contributions! Reasons You're with him! We choose the dog torfer model, this reform model, this quality by hand! Then, I think, we will also be able to work accordingly for people in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17041	Next, Mr Neubauer. I would like to draw attention to this and would like to ask you to take account of the following: The volume does not make the argument stronger, neither as an intermediate call, nor from the government bank, nor from the speaker's desk. We cannot and must not regulate the volume – this could also lead to misunderstandings – so, of course, it is up to every speaker to behave accordingly. I can really ask for it! I think the spectators at home will thank you. Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17071	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! If one has just listened to Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, then one is almost tempted to think that everything is fine in this country and we would live in a country where the pigeons fly around and practically directly into the mouth. In the last two days, we have had to ask ourselves whether what we are being suggested here is that the budget is socially acceptable and socially just, even if we look at it more closely. Ladies and gentlemen! The last year was marked by numerous massive pressures, and even those who are minimum pensioners in this country have suffered a lot. I just remember that, for example, heating oil was expensive by 22.4 percent, and it was only because 330,000 people in that country can no longer afford heating this winter. Mr Federal Minister, I have the incitement of you, I have missed actions by you and the Federal Government in order to find an arrangement here to allow 330 000 people a decent life in this winter. I really missed that! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] Here you have shown “social warmth” like an ice cabinet. That is your truth, that is your social feeling that you bring to these people in this Austria! In Austria, almost 1 million people are at risk of poverty or live on the poverty line, ladies and gentlemen. In this area of Austria, it is possible that 330 000 people cannot afford heating while at the same time a million people are at risk of poverty. Yes, how do you explain this to the people? [[Members of the SPÖ make a grueling hand movement.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't shout like that!]] Because everything is so “toll” in this country? – That’s incredible! At the same time, you are using a minimum guarantee that the hardworking and the skilled can pay to the foreigners in order to ensure that the lazy people in this country come out! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, is it clear to you that since last year, since this scheme has been in place of social assistance, the increase in minimum security has increased by threefold? We will no longer be able to afford that! [[Abg. Oils: Aha!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] And what you get with the right, take away with the left. This is your policy of giving and taking! And one of these examples is that, for example, you are now re-introducing the waiting period – announced a great deal before 2008; as a non-social act by Federal Chancellor Faymann. [[Abg. Olympians: He can only roar!]] This means, for pensioners, that they have up to 23 months of waiting time to enjoy a pension adjustment. You really must be ashamed of this, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, the single-earner discount is stolen from the pensioners. The pensioners are taken the single-earner discount rate! Do you know what this means for these pensioners despite pension adjustment? – A minimum of 240 € per year. And that is not what I say, but that is what the representatives of the Council of Seniors say, and one of them is Mr Karl Blecha of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Vilimsky: He's already in pension, the Blecha!]] Once again, you have fallen into the hacker scheme. You don't want to touch your finger when it comes to pension harmonisation. And with regard to pension harmonisation, Mr Haberzettl, it is already about what you are doing here: You are going out here, abusive members of the House, although you yourself are in a company in which you should share responsibility, a company that has speculated €400 million in capital markets in the year, makes €250 million deficit, which has staff who get ten times as much subsidy for the ASVG-pension as any other and with 52 years in retirement – 13 years before the pension scheme. [[Abg. Olympians: They were your people! They were your people!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] That's a scandal! There is something you should do, Mr Haberzettl, and not make yourself here and insult the people of this House! You really don't have that! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This package is a pure load package. It is only so bad that it has washed itself, and you have burdened the old, the sick and the disabled, and for this you have a big, thick minus, ladies and gentlemen. They result from your burdens that the countries no longer come to breath. Therefore, 60 people need to be reduced for the psychosocial relief and emergency services in Upper Austria, and one third of the crisis intervention needs to be reduced. And with regard to people with disabilities, I have to tell you a Gustopückerl. Due to the limitations in this budget, the following situation has occurred in Upper Austria: There is a project in which €6 million was invested in housing for disabled people. Imagine: 3 000 disabled people in Upper Austria are looking for an apartment! Now we finally have these apartments, but now they cannot be obtained because there is no even the money for the operating costs. – This is your failure in social policy, Minister of State! That's where you failed – and here you talk beautiful! That's really a scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the social budget, it is necessary to reach the view: This budget is not balanced, this budget is not fair, this budget is simple and simply unsocial! And that's why you're really ready for withdrawal, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17262	Mr Mag. Maier is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17283	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer, please note: This Federal Government with this Federal Minister has a highly successful social policy! Their argumentation is not to be understood in any form. Why Believe Do you really think that access to minimum security increases what you complain about where you have made the word choice “foreigners” and “people ”? – It is the poor, Mr Neubauer, who uses this minimum guarantee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this is the successful way to go in Austria. The minimum guarantee project is at all the most successful social project in the last ten years. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thousands of people have problems when they conclude contracts, thousands of people have problems with companies that do not comply with legal provisions. In these cases, these people may visit advisory bodies such as the Consumer Information Association or the Chambers of Workers who provide assistance, advise, inform and also provide legal protection. The Consumer Information Association – I would like to say this clearly – is the most successful social partners project in Austria, where thousands of people are advised and supported annually. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the colleagues of the Consumer Information Association for their excellent activities in the field of consulting, for tests and also for their legal activity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The 2011 budget provides for appropriate financial resources for the Consumer Information Association. This association is funded with 1.6 million basic funding. In addition, funds will be provided to support a corresponding complaint activity of the Consumer Information Association. I would like to say one thing to Mr Dolinschek: Please, Mr Dolinschek, don't be dizzy! No money will be saved at all for the debtor's advice. The Ministry of Social Affairs receives the same amount as it did in the previous year. Please read the budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A special activity is the complaint activity of the VKI. It is not only about consumer rights, it is also about their enforcement, and that is the key to effective and effective consumer protection. Allow me to present a few examples of this. There are still entrepreneurs who require a so-called payment fee. The Consumer Information Association is successful in this regard. We have already been given the right in certain proceedings that this payment fee is not justified by the fact that it is illegal. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Or: telecommunications. Consumers are constantly confronted with misleading advertising for prices and offers in mobile phones. The main problem, however, is certainly the investment sector. You may remember that there was once a Minister of Finance named Grasser who applied for investment products as safe as a savings book, or other offers that spoke of coin security. – There are currently hundreds of processes that the Consumer Information Association leads to collective complaints to help damaged investors in this area. This concerns the AWD as well as, of course, the First Bank or the current Prolactal; the VKI has just filed a collective complaint against prolactat. [[Abg. Grosz: Prolactal!]] – Prolactal, my colleague, yes, of course! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A current case is the future of favored future provision. You may remember when the then Minister of Finance, Grasser, explained here in this House: “A good day begins with a renovated budget.” – As many of us know, he already said at the time, I think, his own budget – not the budget of the federal government and not the budget of investors – because all those who took advantage of the favourable future provision with the 40 percent charge on the stock exchange have been severely damaged in the meantime. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely in such cases that the Consumer Information Association and the Workers' Chamber are responsible for carrying out the relevant complaints. Thank you very much, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17376	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17398	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am quite irritated by the way in which this debate is being held. This loud roar of – I say now – older men do not go towards a high-quality debate. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I also find the Lamento of Mrs Grillitsch, who is also gone again, although he complains that our Clubwoman is not here right now. I think we should all consider: Why did it get so far? Who then broke the Constitution and presented the budget so late that it is now necessary to deal with all this in a very short time that it is necessary to hold such long sessions? Perhaps you should pay attention to this in the future and not break the Constitution in the course of the budgetary procedure, because we could all take more time for the debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to suggest that we consider, as a whole, whether this kind of debate makes sense for anyone, whether it can make any contribution to improving the quality of the budget policy at all. [[Abg. Neubauer: You could finally start now!]] I think it's really time for us to ask this question. Mr Grillitsch and the ÖVP could certainly make an important contribution to this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to respond to some calls. I have the difficult pleasure of sitting next to the BZÖ today next to Mr Brosz, who has repeatedly said that Minister Hundstorfer... – G rosz. [[Call BZÖ:Brosz? Grosz?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Brosz?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said, Brosz!]] Grosz! – The fact is, for the time being, he has also said in the form of an intermediate call that Minister Hundstorfer would have the intellectual level of a soup bowl. [[Abg. Grosz: The intellectual radius of a soup bowl!]] Mr President, it is rather statements such as those which are extremely depressing the intellectual level of our debates and which lead to a single embarrassment. [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I do not want to protect the Minister now, because this is difficult because your argument is, of course, mainly based on the right parties here in the House. They are only holding more defenses against the inconsistency of the wrong polemics of the right, and that is really unfortunate. [[Abg. May. Widmann: What does that mean?]] What would you do about it? – You would be so opposed to making a good, efficient, offensive policy. But you don't, you're just talking about it. You submit ads in which you celebrate yourself, but we all have the studies, have the data that clearly says that what you tell us about what you want to do to us does not correspond to reality. And even more important is: The felt reality of the people is another. You can still say so often that you're trying to make it all right. It's not all right! That would actually be the answer you would have to give to the rights: a better social and labour market policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, I have now used a large part of my speaking time to express my dismay at the nature of the debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're talking for 10 minutes, but don't say anything at all!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] The fact is that in this budget you unfortunately fail to make important choices. They will not invest in education reform again, and – because we are talking about the chapter work, about the labour market – they will not invest massively in active labour market policies either. Active labour market policy must start where education policy has failed at the end. It must try to improve education deficits, skills deficits of those people who do not have opportunities in the labour market. But they're shortening instead of investing, and that's a massive problem. They all argue that the unemployment rate is falling. – Yes, but you also know from the studies of Wifo and IHS that the unemployment rate definitely decreases less rapidly than you will reduce the resources for active labour market policies. This means that, in the future, less financial resources will be available for good advice and for good, qualifying measures per unemployed person. The level is already not a good one, not an intoxicating one, but it will be further shortened. This is to a great extent shortsighted. In particular, it is shortsighted given the fact that we know that almost half of all unemployed people have a compulsory school degree at most. That is, the only thing you can do to give these people sustainablely better opportunities in the labour market is to increase their level of education, their level of qualification. This is a very good investment in the economic sense of the budget. There are numerous studies that demonstrate that such qualification measures are expected to take just a few years. When people are no longer unemployed, they no longer draw money from the social system – unemployment benefit, emergency aid et cetera – but are re-integrated into the working world, they even pay taxes, social security contributions and consumer taxes via consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this budget is not a positive signal for the next few years. It is largely fearless, it is without perspective, it is the expression of the smallest common denominator you have found in the coalition. This is a pity, and I hope that it will continue in the future in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17555	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17606	Mr President. High house! Mr Grosz, listen to me, then you will You may also learn something! [[Abg. Grosz: This is an increase of all people who can't afford anything for Christmas!]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially dear spectators at home in front of the screens! For almost 24 hours, we have been discussing the 2011 budget here, of course, with different access. I allow myself to present to you the political package the opposition presents to you and which, as government parties, we are putting the Austrians under the Christian tree. This is the opposition's budget package. [[the speaker keeps the orange-green-blue-red package in height]] You see, it's empty, it's just spitted with polemics. [[the speaker opens the box; he is empty]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's just spicy with political humor and vultures. [[Call the FPÖ: There is no polemic in it! It's empty!]] [[Abg. New builder: No loads!]] This is the political package, which is the budget that Austrians can expect from the opposition. In contrast, I can of course also show you the other package, filled with 70 billion 126 million. [[The speaker opens the red-black box; it is filled with nasal.]] [[Numerous calls to FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This is the budget that we present to the Austrians, which in any case has content and that ensures that Austria continues on a good path. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sit down again!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Get down!]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Glass beads should be in there!]] [[Other numerous calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This is the load package that we unfortunately need to put the Austrians under the Christian tree, but that is also supposed to help... [[The speaker shows another much smaller red-black package]] [[Subsequent calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Take your breath together, keep your nerves! At least I've managed to get you back on track. With the sleeper force of the opposition, which was not present last night, it goes up again. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Petzner and Mr Grosz will probably come to the speaker's desk here and probably insult us again. But that's the way it is. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz comes to the speaker's desk and takes a few sugars out of the red-black box.]] – You will then get something, Mr. Cot! Look how greedy the opposition falls on our budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we shouldn't be so wrong at all. I know that you are not only politically hungry, but also with your proposals. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we have here in this package, these 70 billion, we make available to the Austrians... [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (a sugar keeper in height) That's what happened!]] - It didn't end! You may have expired, politically. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is the budget we are making available, which – we have already talked a lot about it today – should ensure that we can continue to keep unemployment in this country the lowest in Europe, ensuring that, despite the ten hours we have to increase the first two stages of care, we continue to ensure for these people the degree of care they eventually need. These billions we make available are in order to secure pensions, to make 1.2 percent more available to pensioners, to give them a fair and fair share. This is the budget with which we give young people a chance by means of education and many other measures to ensure safety – and much more that we have already discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to hide that this load package not only hurts the Austrian population, but of course also us, but these are measures that we must take to provide our children – I have two – with opportunities in the future, ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Zanger, speaking in a hurry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] I would also like to say that this budget, which we are making available, brings Austria on the road to ensure that this budget ensures that people in this country are assured. That is why we also need to address this small load package, which is fair, but fair and above all generation-proof. [[The speaker holds the small red-black package in the height]] [[Abg. Oils: What's in there?]] I would like to ask everyone, especially you, Mr Grosz, because you are the next speaker, if I may leave the boxes, because performance should be worthwhile, and the opposition also wants to take care of our cake. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] [[Calls at the ÖVP]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] At the end of his speech, I agree to leave it here, and every speaker may take one of these delicacies out of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17893	Thank you for the kind offer. I assume that the next speaker will tell me if he feels disturbed by this. – Mr Grosz, you are the next speaker. Do you feel disturbed? [[Abg. Grosz: Please take this away!]] I can ask colleagues to remove his packages. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a Kasperl! That's a red tape!]] I call Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e17938	You can also take your diaphragm cramp. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't feel like But I feel like hundreds of thousands of people attending this broadcast in front of their televisions, how many people in this country are simply mocked by this action, mocked by an ÖVP member who, in his prepotence and arrogance here, comes to the speaker's desk, distributes chocolate sugar, and thinks that this is the policy of the Federal Government: To distribute chocolate four days before Christmas, at a time when 1 million people live below the poverty line in Austria, chocolate as a political answer to the fact that we have 347,000 care professionals in that country, [[OBJECTIVES]] Chocolates of this red and black federal government in response to the fact that we have 250 000 people who are in unemployment and do not know how to afford Christmas, Your government's chocolates in response to the fact that 300 000 people in this country can no longer afford heating, Chocolates from your government in response to the fact that you cut down 1 million people in this country who live with disabilities, the promotion of the disabled. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before we make a final mockery, I am trying to try to make your mind finally in this difficult situation of our country, finally to make politics for the people, not to detest them, not to lie to them in the face, and not to think of them with alms in the form of chocolates in any form! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the same prepotence as a Social Minister, you, Member of the Slickovits, are going out here today in the same prepotence as that of a Party Minister, who is explaining to us today – in the O-Ton, I quote: Think the Austrians are not so educated!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18004	Mr President, it is too much of the prepotence! A bit down with the pitch! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18025	In principle, I quote the Minister of Social Affairs, translated into his trade union German, into Vienna's trade union German: The Austrians are anyway stupid enough that they do not notice what we are doing with them in the Federal Government! Mr Federal Minister, you are telling us today that you do not make any cuts in the disability sector, saying: You just have to be able to read, it's all in there anyway! [[In these words, the speaker repeatedly imitates the tone of Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] According to your theory, we now have tax reductions and not tax increases in this country in the future – you just have to be able to read! In this country we have strengthened the social sector in the future and have not weakened how You do it with this budget – you just have to be able to read! Somewhere in there it will be, the discount, in the pile of paper. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this country, the promotion of the disabled is also increased and not shortened – you only have to be able to read! It's going to stand somewhere, Minister of State. Mr. Federal Minister, we have read, which Push They have been listed only in the case of minimum security. I am pleased that the Federal Government and the majority of the government have not even been able to make the minimum guarantee law known properly. Centralka, the surprise is coming! ==References== You have forgotten, both in the National Council and in the Federal Council – this is also evidenced by the current expression of the RIS – that you are making known the facilities and the supplements of this Minimum Assurance Act, and have therefore not made known to all implementing requirements, and this law will therefore be repealed by the Constitutional Court on the basis of your coup. On Friday, you have still tried to place the additions on Parliament's homepage as PDF documents. These supplements have not been published in the Official Journal of the “Wiener Zeitung”. Therefore, your minimum security law has not been properly announced. [[Abg. Petzner: Na servus, this is a Blamage!]] And you have opened the door and the door that we can finally meet this disgrace law through the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A Blamage of the same!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We have read it, we have felt it and we see how many hundreds of thousands of Austrians suffer daily under this budget, under your administration of the political misery in Austria. Yes, you and your policies are the synonym for managing political misery in Austria. The compliance with the requirements of the Law on Equal Opportunities will be postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day: no accessibility for the disabled. This is being pushed to the long-term bank, because it could be a joke with the economy in some way. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's for generating!]] At least one could force one's own authorities to finally carry out the equalisation of the disabled. [[Abg. Crist: Absurd! Wrong!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you have to be responsible for the long procedures for the care allowance classifications in Austria, so that people who are entitled to care benefits do not receive a care allowance for a long time. You yourself know that the Court of Auditors has found that, especially at the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy, the care allowance classifications do not work in the front and back and that many people no longer experience the first reference of the care allowance at all. – Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is human cynicism, which is a disgrace to this federal government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As Minister of Consumer Protection, they allow fuel prices to remain at their highest level for two years, allowing people in that country to be cut out. As Minister for Consumer Protection, you are not able to at last display the fuel quantity because of illegal price agreements. You have, of course, arranged yourself with Mr Ruttenstorfer, your party colleague. You, Federal Minister, are saying today and are also deceiving Parliament that there is hardly any more youth unemployment in Austria. I would like to remind you of a brochure of your own Chamber of Workers, Mr. former ÖGB President: [[keeping such a person in height]] “Oberösterreich: 11 000 boy without jobs. The AK calls for effective action against the job crisis." This is the truth that your own partygoers, underrunners and union officials in the federal states naturally feel, but you do not want to see true in your ivory tower in the Social Ministry! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They will continue to manage the social security sector in the future and have taken the opportunity to finally put the social security funds together. Instead of actual reforms in this area, you are shortening in all areas. Instead of finally putting together the social security and the local health phone, you can see that only the nine Austrian local healthcare phones – according to your own answer – cause salary costs in the year € 557 million. They find nothing to be seen by Mr Donabauer as the chairman of the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy, sitting in the third row of the ÖVP, continuing to struggle around with service cars, chauffeur and his chief doctor in the area, thus burdening the contributors of all the professional classes in that country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We do not want to do so, and therefore we have put a hundred requests in Parliament yesterday. In contrast to the Greens, our Members are now sitting back. Because, Mrs. Schatz: Her own clubwoman will be comfortable sometime at 11 a.m. in the morning with her breakfast and her tea-haferl, breakfast and then leave the hall again. This is not a good job morale: to paralyze this Parliament with actionism, but not to bring any content! [[Calls to the Greens.]] We have put in a hundred applications, and the 101. I can now make a request. [[Quoted print version removed]] In contrast, Mr Mathematical clickovits, to your unworthy spectacle, numerous suggestions for improvement are included in the package of the orange opposition with 101 applications, as we will be able to imagine Austria in the future in a more social, future-proof and economically successful way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18216	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18341	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18378	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall try to put the matter in the foreground in the four minutes speaking time I have. Screaming, defaming, mocking others, that's not my style, not the style of the SPÖ and, I'm sure, not the style of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz from BZÖ has called for us to make a policy for the people. [[Abg. Wheeler: Small, not Grosz!]] Let us look at the current situation on the labour market, and the Federal Minister has already pointed out the labour market figures. [[Abg. Kickl: Let's take a look at your pension system, Mr Riepl!]] Annual employment: last year plus 55 000 unemployed, this year minus 13 400. The number of those in training has decreased by 5,600. So we have a total of around 19,000 unemployed in our country within a year. With the boys we have a minimum of 8.4 percent, but even with the older unemployed, the number has become somewhat smaller, although not much smaller, but at least something. No other country similar to us in the EU can refer to such a good labour market balance, and this is certainly not a coincidence. I would remind you of the labour market package 1, labour market package 2, of the training guarantee, especially for the young people we have designed according to the needs of the region, and also for short-time work. In 2009, a total of € 113 million was granted by the Republic to businesses, for which employees there to secure and maintain employment. In the meantime, letters come from the firms where there has been short work, in which the AMS, with the social partners, thank you for providing professional support. We did this together, and a little bit we should also be proud of it: Government, Parliament, social partners, all of them together. In the crisis, we did not stop Austria from feeling sick, but we did. I think that is important in this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of pensions, Mr Wöginger of the ÖVP meant at the beginning of today's debate, the federal contribution increased dramatically. – Yes, that’s right, we have an increase in the federal grant for pensions, but you also have to look at: Who needs the biggest grant? What's it look like? It is the farmers and the self-employed who need a large amount of support in relation to the pension. This also depends a little on the fact that the contribution of these groups of persons mentioned by me is less than in the ASVG area. [[Abg. Kickl: At your political board, how's it going?]] That is why it is also fair – and I am at the budget again – that this budget now slightly increases the contribution for farmers and for self-employed persons in pension insurance. As a result, we also come to an improved yield situation and are likely to have less grant needs. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address the first speakers of this debate very briefly, because it is a need for me and because I do not have the opportunity to say something about the family chapter tomorrow. In one of the first sentences of his speech, Mr Kickl of the Liberals said today: If we, the Freedom Party, are talking about families, we are talking about Austrian families. – The word “Austrian” has been accentuated by you. [[Bravorufe at the FPÖ.]] It's your right to express it that way. I understood it this way: If you're talking about families, you're talking about Austrian families. – I allow that word to be added “pure”. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: What does that mean?]] I can tell you: When we talk about the SPÖ of families, we talk about all the families living in Austria. This is a difference, but I am proud of it, Mr Kickl!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18481	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18503	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sleep withdrawal coupled with full moon explains some strange speech donations from previous speakers. Minister, three factors threaten prosperity in Austria: Firstly, the budget deficit. We can manage that ourselves if we do it properly. Secondly, the EU's financial burden – the rescue shield tag or the guarantees that have been issued. No one knows where this journey will take place. All of this can go well, but it can also turn into the opposite. And the third thing that threatens our prosperity is that, geographically, historically, we live at a intersection between the former Western world and the former Eastern bloc and still feel the effects of these former outrages. We have different economic standards, different financial standards, different social standards. This great gap, which still exists between our country and our neighbours today, needs some assessment and is also the cause of numerous outrages. Companies are wandering because, of course, it is much cheaper in the East than with us. Companies are wandering because they are able to bring about significant tax advantages, with the unpleasant effect on our economy that there are massive tax losses here. And we all know that we need these taxes to finance the health insurance companies and to finance our budget. However, people who have to take massive savings in their personal standard of living through this financial package, which the government has put on, because of the budget deficit that needs to be corrected. People have a lower purchasing power, as they say so beautifully. You have to look around while shopping, you have to turn around every euro. We have heard this from many previous speakers today. One example of this is that many purchases are not made in our own countries, but in neighbouring countries, especially in the Christmas season, and that the social and health services are also consumed abroad, regardless of the season. I expect an active economic and social policy to be countered here, and I cannot understand – I have said that many times in this place – that it is not precisely in this respect that improvements are being made, but even actions are being put in place that are further aggravating the whole impact. I would just like to give an example that you all know: If a person in Austria needs a dental prosthesis, he goes to his dentist and pays there a certain amount that we call self retention. If he travels to Hungary and uses the same service there, he also pays a certain amount but receives the total amount returned from his health insurance. And I tell you, the consequences are not small, but the consequences are buy power outs, tax outs and buy power outs. Many people really do. I cannot understand that an active social politician simply takes up these misdemeanors and does not put in place any anti-regulatory measures here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In Sunday's speeches, we are constantly talking about having the best health system in the world. That's true, but there are also these peripheral areas, where this is not the case: For example, if you submit these bills to the health insurance fund, you get the money back to 100 percent. Mr Minister, I am convinced that this situation, which is exposed to these people, is not acceptable to you either, but I do believe and suggest that many social politicians say that we know about this problem, but we do not have enough money to intervene in this segment. People have a valve, and this valve can use it by just driving to Hungary and making the prostheses there. You, Mr Minister, condone the fact that there is a group of people who are socially weak, who have to take up this hardship. After all, it's also connected with risks. And the others who can afford it can take advantage of these benefits in Austria. That, I think, is a missing social policy. The third point, why we say Austria is threatened by the loss of prosperity, is that people from the former East from 1st century onwards. In May, a massive migration into our social system will take place. People are not interested in theoretical treatment, but they are interested in active social policy, which is geared towards real problems and reduces everyday concerns. It is therefore necessary to take measures in the social field for our people so that it is no longer necessary to leave Austria in order to obtain the necessary social and medical benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18579	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18600	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the TV screens, on the gallery! High house! Since 1955 social policy has been made in this House since the decision of the General Social Security Act. I think that the social policy in Austria is not flawless, which would be superfluous. But it is effective, it is tangible and it has contributed to our prosperity, social security, and good care for all of us in Austria. Of course, the budget debate makes emotions come up, and I don't think it's worth praising everything, but it's not right to blame and criticize everything. All those who make up here and present themselves as a better learner, whoever it is, should begin to make things better. You haven't shown this from the opposition to this day. [[Abg. Petzner: One million lives on the poverty line – and you're talking about prosperity for everyone! That's incredible!]] We have an employment in Austria, which can be seen, and I would like to say in this context that employment is important because it strengthens our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must assume that every second euro we earn in Austria is actually generated by exports. That is, our economy, our employees, our employees, our entrepreneurs are well on the road. When we talk about employment – and I would point out that it is a fundamental concern – it is not only about the self-employed workers, but also about the 100 000 entrepreneurs and about the more than 200,000 farmers working in the farms. If they did not work there, they would push on to the labour market, and then employment and the whole social line would look different. I think we should see this very clearly in the perception of our state responsibility. For all of this to work in the future, we need competitive and above all fair production conditions in all our companies. In this context, education policy is important, and I would like to see the debate on education policy as soon as possible and really achieve what we need, namely the best training for our youth, so that it can enter the world of work after school. [[Abg. Petzner: And exactly your party prevents that!]] Mr Federal Minister, I would also like to attach great importance to continuing training, because I think that it is very important for employment beyond certain ages. Finally, we should look forward to this, because only employment secures us social benefits. If in Austria, as has been said several times, about 30 percent of GDP is spent on social benefits, then this is the merit of all of us. We can be proud of that, but that would be too little. - We have to keep it. That is, I think, the great task. It doesn't make sense to calculate each other, who pays more. One of my previous speakers has said that farmers pay too little or that the economy pays too little. - Let's take things as they are! We all, and this is socially agreed, pay 22.8 percent of contributions to the pension system. The employee pays 10.25 percent, the service provider 12.55 percent. So you see: a dual system. The economy pays 17.5 percent, and the rest because they take advantage of other social benefits is due to this. Farmers pay 16 percent in the future and have many own benefits, such as the fictitious outsourcing or the special levy on the basic tax. All of this has to be taken into account, only then will a debate on social balance be held correctly, honestly and correctly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Jannach makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] Now a few more thoughts about the current regulations. I think the most important thing for all of us is – that must be our goal! – to frighten the elderly. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: You don't!]] This has not, or has been, done in such a way that some debate has contributed. That doesn't make any sense! It is more than 2 million people who are in social care about the pension, and who every day are afraid to suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that is not state policy! But we also need to talk about it fairly, because we also need to give hope to young people. Many young people ask us: Friends, what's that supposed to mean? - I think we're on our way. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] Mr Federal Minister, if we make corrections in the care sector, then it is not pleasant, but overall, I think, reasonable, because it is true that we have the best performance in Europe, indeed worldwide, and we want to keep them in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18703	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18753	Mr President. Federal Minister! I do not want to go into individual figures and tables here, but I would like to see what pictures are behind these figures and tables. They are the pictures of politicians with their officials who have written these laws, but much stronger pictures are the millions of people who meet these numbers and tables and this budget. I think that should be kept in mind quite a lot. I would also like to stress - and you know, Federal Minister - that social and health overlaps and overlaps. That is why there is, of course, a kind of jungle in terms of competences, responsibilities and budget allocations, which is also in a massive field of tension between the federal government and countries. All of this isn't very helpful. Both areas are cross-sectional, and you – like Minister Stöger and actually all ministers – should accept this issue. They know as well as I do – and I would like to talk briefly about these famous interfaces, which have never become a seam – that the medicine decides up to 20 percent of the time and how often people get sick or when and how long people are sick and how long they live. You know that there are differences in the life expectancy of four and more years only when you look at different districts in Vienna. This is not related to medicine, but it is related to the most important factors that decide on sickness, life and death, and these are education, income, social integration, housing and working conditions – all things that also meet your place of business. That is, with social measures you can do more than, for example – it will not be happy to hear it! – the doctor's chamber. Much more! That means you have to look at education and you have to look at income. It is not a question of a woman who has not obtained a compulsory education living six years shorter than an academic in higher position. This is a social nuisance, and there cannot be talk of equality and fairness. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many in the ÖVP have tried to equate disease with debt. This or that would simply have to behave healthier, smoke less, walk more, eat more sensiblely – less sugar; [[Abg. Dr. Rosary: Eat less sugar!]] You're taking the word out of my mouth. They see, however, that many of these factors are not the freedom of choice of people. How many percent of people can choose where they live? How many percent of people can choose what educational opportunities they have? How many can choose the environmental conditions under which they live and how much they deserve? This often determines – I do not say exclusively – others. In other words, it would be useful if ministers, but also MEPs in Parliament, saw that we need not only to look at the behaviour of people, but also to try to change the conditions that make people sick. I'm missing a lot of things. I always get really squabbled and get a higher pulse when it says that no committee can be convened because there is no legislative proposal. – We would have so much to talk about, so much to plan for perhaps even what laws it takes to make people healthier. There are now some indications regarding these interfaces that concern you, for example the care. They know – and there are relevant studies – when a family case occurs, the risk of poverty goes up to 20 to 25 percent, which is not funny. When I was still working at the clinic, many of my patients were between 40 and 60 years of age who had been hospitalized to express it a bit funny now, were fixed and Foxi and were mentally down. They took care of their father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, and mother-in-law and were broken. If you say now that you have done something in the 24-hour care – which is not quite wrong – then you have to bear in mind that only 3 percent need such a thing, and many other people are financially in the rain. We are in favour of ensuring that there is a kind of basic right to humanitarian and affordable care. That should be so! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] For care levels 1 and 2 you have to prove – I don't know it exactly outside – that you have 40, 60 or 80 hours of care or care needs, and then you get 300, 400 or 500 € for it. – That doesn’t even have 10 percent of the people’s needs! When you see the strength it takes in homes to offer these people an acceptable quality, you know that there is a huge funding need. The care fund is only spoken, but nothing is done! And you know, there really is a threat of apocalypse if nothing happens. Then on federalism, which is already somehow going to my kidneys, so to this extent is harmful to health. In Tyrol it is said that, compared with other federal states, there are much, much more people in care levels 1 and 2. – I do not want the quality of care to depend on the bio-rhythm and the horoscope of national leaders or on the registration paper. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] I want federal uniform quality assurance and federal guarantees that people are well cared for. If I then look at how many differences there are also in the rehabilitation between the individual cash offices, between the individual federal states, so that only after strokes or skull-brain injuries after accidents a third of the persons do not find adequate outpatient treatment places, I wonder who has accounted for what it costs if this offer does not come. Or how can it be that in the AUVA guidelines there is in it, the rehabilitation has to put all the means in place according to the latest state of science and to waste everything, to integrate and lead people into rehab, while this is not contained in the PVA's guidelines? That's where Rehab stands. Who's checking how she looks? - There's a lot to do. Then I come to another chapter that touches your area, namely family hospice. What was expected of the number of persons taking advantage of it was largely not achieved. Why? - Because people can't afford this despite the fund. By the way, there is no right to support from the fund, but people have to seek support. This is also embarrassing if you are a family member. At the end of the hospice: If a ministry says that dying is a matter of country, and nine social representatives or social councillors say they're not putting any money into the hospice system, then I wonder if birth and death do not affect both living and why they make this difference. Two-class medicine up to dying I think absolutely a scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As far as you are concerned, Minister Hundstorfer – and this is cost-intensive – is: Burnout and stress are the main reasons for many medical errors. 40 percent of the working time law has been implemented into health professions, some of them not. Labour inspectors are massively pressured to hold back with ads. I could show you some examples: People don't trust it. Now I'm still scratching the curve to the university. What does this mean for you if workers' protection regulations were suspended at universities years ago and returned to 2013? As a result of a lack of money, workers' protection provisions enter into force in 2016. What does that mean? What does that mean in the social and in the university? Are the people there worth nothing? Can you afford that? What if something happens? Again: I believe that health and social affairs belong to networking. The quality of the systems must be guaranteed uniformly throughout the country. I would ask you – and I think you are capable – to resist like many others, even if it occasionally disturbs the partner! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18822	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18844	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House, in the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr Grünewald, in his introductory words, presented the relationship between social status, social conditions and health. I would like to start by linking political conditions and our social system. Mr Grosz referred to the political misery. It is likely that he has chosen a unique definition of the BZÖ if one thinks of the time of this party's participation in government and its social policy implications. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, oh, oh!]] Mr Maij-Weghous has demonstrated more or less clearly how he feels about this budget, but it is interesting that he has presented the load package as a black package with a red cover. [[Abg. Grosz: Much less!]] [[Call the FPÖ:But don't show what's inside!]] This was just the right representation, because only social-democratic government participation and social-democratic governance mean that burdens are limited and there is more social balance. – And we fight for it, we stand for it and our Federal Minister, Hundstorfer, also stands for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: A red package with black straps!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Austria's economy has recovered much faster than expected from the crisis, although we cannot yet say that we have managed it permanently and permanently. On the one hand, the social state has served as a very important stability factor, but on the other hand it has proved to be correct the anticyclical economic recovery measures. Above all, our two labour market packages have also contributed to Austria being among the countries with the lowest unemployment rate across Europe. People who have an existential job also promote positive economic development, because of course they increase domestic demand. And this is also done by trying to control people's domestic demand and income by fiscal measures. We also support the Federal Chancellor's intention to carry out tax reliefs in this legislative period for the working people. [[Abg. Kickl: But those who earn less do not benefit from tax redundancies!]] In the last few days, we have been able to hear news of the trade in the flourishing Christmas business, Mr Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: You must have covered yourself!]] However – and that must be said openly – we are facing a major challenge in terms of good social networks. Mr Oellinger referred to the young people earlier. Yes, it is a challenge that the economy also offers more full-time jobs and full-year jobs in the service sectors, so that these young people have an opportunity to actually become integrated into these social networks. Only if as many people as possible have accessible access to social networks will the social and economic strength of the social state remain in the future. A similar picture is for the holiday country Austria. Tourism has proved to be a stable employment factor in recent years. It is again spoken of an increase in the number of nights. Vienna, for example, already has a year of tourism record, and the winter season today could even overwhelm those of the previous year. But I'm here again at an important point. It is about, Mr Federal Minister, that the trend towards annual employment is also taking place in this area. [[Abg. Kickl: The minister is already asleep!]] This must be a common objective of economic and employment policy for tourism. The entire leisure industry is becoming an increasingly important factor in employment. With good training, it is possible to require more appreciation in this regard. You think about wellness or vital tourism. At the same time, however, these are offers used by the local, so-called resident population. However, this is only possible if the working people obtain income from their work, from which they can actually participate in leisure activities. An important point for me is also – and I would like to address you once again, Minister of the State of Hundstorfer – the income transparency. I am convinced that if we have implemented this law – and I hope that we will decide at the beginning of January on a positive and constructive basis in this House – it will become more sensitive and that women's income disadvantages will rather be eliminated. I think that this has once again provided a basis for women to be strengthened and better integrated into this social network. I would just like to say to the labour market budget: This budget is based on the assumption that there will be a further increase in employment, for which we already have particularly positive figures. This also corresponds to the adoption of economic researchers. Labour market policy has proved to be positive for the people of this country under a Social Democratic Social Minister over the past two years, and that of the coming year will continue in line with this trend. In this sense, we will give our approval to the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18971	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e18992	Mr President. Minister! Fathers. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Haben and not give is in some cases worse than stealing.’ This quote comes from Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach. The reduction in care for care levels 1 and 2 is such a case, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want to make us aware that there is no money at your disposal in Austria for those in need of care, you know for yourself that this is not the truth. You have money in your budget, only you don't want to give it to the caregiver. The Minister for Social Affairs has already been quoted in connection with the savings in stages 1 and 2, but it has always been brought only half a quote. The full quote is: ‘There will be no less euro spent, a little less expenditure will be spent.’ In this context, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a question, which I also represent for the 10,000 supporters, in order to be precise: 10 645 supporters – post who, under the address www.pflegegeld-retten.at, have announced their protest against the planned cuts against which savings in the care sector have been announced. The care level 1 is increased from 50 to 60 hours, the care level 2 from 75 to 85 hours, the access criteria are extremely difficult and tightened. Now I ask you: What do you say to the women, the men, the children who need care for 50 hours a week, as before, or 75 hours a day? What do you say to them? What are you giving them? What do you give them? – Nothing gets them from you, Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Women and families are particularly affected by the savings in the care sector; Women, therefore, because care is mainly made by women, is made at home and because women work in the poorly paid care professions. These savings are non-social and not reasonable. You know exactly where you could have saved without taking care of the people in need in Austria into their pockets. The Court of Auditors has shown it to you, not even, but hundreds of times, I would almost say. We from the BZÖ have submitted many applications with regard to the improvement in the care sector. I would like to make one more request at this point today. And I would like to call on everyone to vote in favour of this, especially Mr Grillitsch, who has once again spoken about the absence of solutions and proposals on our part. I cordially invite you to agree to this request, which I will now submit here. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, you agree to this proposal in the sense of the caregivers in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19102	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19185	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19206	Mr President. Minister! High house! Disabled people have demonstrated on the street, in cold and snow. Yours is my full respect and my recognition of this commitment. And they have also achieved a number of things, namely that the care money is no longer called into question. The care allowance is important to secure a self-determined life and to grant freedom of choice so that every disabled person can decide from whomever he is cared for or assisted where and how. What I very much regret about this discussion is that it is being conducted very emotionally. In disability forums, many facts have been distorted and misrepresented, leading to a strong uncertainty. For example, it has been said that the integration of the disabled into the labour market will be saved, that there will be no more vocational training assistants. Of course, I asked the Federal Social Office, and the fact is that the Federal Social Offices are being saved, but the objectives for professional integration can be fully met in 2011. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The focus is on the supported help such as personal assistance, clearing, job coaching, work assistance. In the areas of clearing and personal assistance, an additional effort is also expected for 2011. This can also be financed. What is constantly being put under the table is the positive aspects of this budget, because it also contains a social partners agreement: the abolition or suspension of the protection of termination for the first four years from the start of employment and the increase in the tax on compensation. These measures have been controversial for years and have been designed to bring more disabled people into employment. In addition, people with disabilities will be more recognized, and more opportunities will be offered. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to mention something which I very much regret, where it has not succeeded in bringing about a solution: This is in development cooperation. I believe it is important to take action here. There are 650 million disabled people worldwide, 80 percent of them living in developing countries, in emerging countries. I mean, there is a need for a certain degree of solidarity. It must be a priority in 2011 to find a solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19267	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19291	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite lazy in the state of Austria. [[Abg. Grandruck: Denmark!]] There is a wealth of problems, but the government is unable to improve living conditions, and the budget that is to be decided is even intensifying these problems. It is – on the contrary! – so, the budget is such that you really have to be afraid, especially in the social and family areas. And that's a shame. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are not only parallel societies, which have been created by massive immigration and have been promoted by multicultural geology, but also parallel worlds in which politicians act, completely separate from the true needs of people in our country. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: “Being or not, this is the question”!]] Mr Bartenstein! Unfortunately, I did not understand your call and therefore I cannot respond to it either. I'm sorry. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: I answered with Hamlet!]] [[Abg. Großruck: “You too, my son Brutus? ”]] – Well, I was good at being a cultural speaker, wasn't I? [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] Although, for example, the women's report and many other surveys clearly show that the private care and education of young people is preferable to state support, no lessons are drawn from these data collected. The desired life planning is simply ignored. The Minister of Women and also the President of Parliament, Prammer, even demand that women return to work immediately after birth. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek even warns against getting into the trap, raising children himself in the family, or caring for the parents themselves. And the Green Club, which is going off today at all, even calls for a mandatory kindergarten visit from two years old. You have to imagine that once! In my eyes it is really inhuman, children... – She has required a mandatory kindergarten visit from two years old. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This does not address the needs of children at all. [[Abg. Brosz: Two years before birth!]] With such ideas, these politicians represent parade examples of the implementation of left ideologies, based on Marx and Lenin. We have discussed this more often. Your favourites, Marcus, and so on, also want to defame and destroy values such as family, home, country, mother tongue – in the eyes of the Greens anyway suspicious words – motherhood – very bad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. New builder.]] We liberals reject these ideologies of left feminists and gender theorists, because they even claim that they are constructed only by education, we did so first. It would be very important – the left say – for one to ignore these role models, as if there were not men and women. These claim they only play a role. We believe that there are mothers and fathers and that mothers and fathers do not play a role, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Money put into these false theories is wasted money, we say. In fact, if these sums were to benefit from a constructive family policy, then a fair age insurance could finally be created for women who devote many, many years of their life to their own family. I know these are fundamental thoughts. But precisely from these thoughts come the different ideologies, which also lead to different valuations and to different decisions here in the house. The fact that Austria is one of the lowest birth rate countries in Europe shows that something has gone wrong here. This shows that there is a social climate here in which women do not feel strengthened and unprotected to have children. The decision to have and raise children must not be a disadvantage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We liberals want to promote and strengthen families, for they fulfil one of the most important tasks, namely to give our children the necessary security and the necessary hold. Moreover, something: the partnership between man and woman, based on trust, respect and love. This too is very good because it can develop particularly well in a family. Ladies and gentlemen! No money for social utopia that goes beyond the real needs of people! We liberals want families to be strengthened and people can determine their own personal life-style.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19435	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19457	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly: Mrs Unterlander, I think we should look at our budget and then at the budgets of the other countries in terms of international and European comparison. [[Abg. Kickl:... others can't buy anything!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we assume that we have achieved such a budget in a very tense economic crisis, as we will now adopt it, a socially balanced budget, then we can really be glad that this has been achieved, and in so far as I am grateful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, a functioning social state also has access to law. I would like to thank you here, since there has been a long discussion, for the fact that we have all succeeded in not abolishing the day of office. I'm really saying that in all directions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann's head is just as much as our State Secretary, who has been particularly active here, and also the Minister of Social Affairs is to be thanked because the day of office is an important measure for all those who have little money that do not have the money to afford a lawyer on every legal issue. It is therefore also possible to go to court and get advice in the future. But it can also be given to the judges who come to see a problem, the opportunity to mediate and see that the problem may be corrected in advance. This is a very good measure for the rule of law. This also opens up the opportunity for all to come to their right regardless of their social status. If we take social equal opportunities as an example, if we want to do so, we also see that there are many measures, many cases in Austria, which cause us all extraordinary anger and harm. I only mention here the names Meinl, Immofinanz, Grasser, BUWOG, Hypo Alpe-Adria – all cases where many people who did not have a lot of money that they had been given, they should, instead of giving money in their swine, buy shares, buy securities, have fallen by these funds around their last money. [[Abg. Riepl: Meischberger!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: There was Gusenbauer consultant!]] Therefore, it is necessary that we strengthen our prosecutors accordingly, really feel things on our teeth. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: What did Mr. Lacina do on the supervisory board? How much did Mr Gusenbauer get for advice?]] – I already know that it is very difficult to deal with this matter, to defend oneself and thus to help with justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strutz, there is hardly any other Minister of Justice or a minister who has done so much damage to the Republic as Mr Böhmdorfer has. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That was the only independent minister!]] If I look at what buildings, such as the Jugendgerichtshof, for example, have been sold, and if new buildings that we still pay until now have to be built and we now have the youth in the Grey House, where it is abused daily, I can only say: We are happy to give up this policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad – coming to the conclusion – that we will decide on this social budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19558	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19580	Mr President. Minister! Dear spectators! Mrs Unterlander, you have been quite misunderstandingd. The government agreement of the Vienna Greens with the SPÖ states that we want the children to go to kindergarten two years before birth and that the men will have the children. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That's a joke, of course. But you should perhaps deal with the term “Gender” more responsibly. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] It is already a form of irony, at the end of this year, of the European Year for the Control of Poverty and Social Exclusion to come up with a savings package that could rather be described as a poverty promotion measure. Minister! Two weeks ago, you and I, unfortunately a few other Members, were present at a final event of the poverty conference and InterACT here in Parliament, where it was a question of presenting once again the InterACT theme “No Graves for Curves”, which did not happen this year in order to combat poverty and combat poverty. That's not a new thing now. It draws like a red thread through the entire budget, that precisely where the lobby is weak, where there is little contradiction, was most intervened. This concerns students, families, people in developing countries and, last but not least, very many women in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's nice that we have a women's minister. It is less beautiful that this women's minister has a very low budget of all ministries. The fact that this budget has not been grated and “sweeped” has not yet stated that it is good and that there is enough money for women in this country. There's just too short a grass that you can't mowing big over it. There is still a lot of need, especially in the women's ministry, for women's homes, for the equal treatment prosecutions and much more. That's where the lobby stays away. But especially with the other resorts, when it comes to looking at the impact on men and women, when it comes to the magic word “gender budgeting” – Mrs. Unterterlander has now gone out and has to read out what “gender” really means – there is a lot of need for follow-up. Even if you never want to understand, Gender Budgeting is not a devil, it's not a big witchcraft. That's just to say that you're getting the budget... – That's not expensive either. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: It's just expensive!]] One looks at the budget for its impact on women and men. That's a very simple matter. You only have to click once and take a look at it. That's what you should do. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But fortunately, Gender Budgeting has been enshrined in the Constitution since 2009. There's a test operation now, and you can't stop that either. From 2012 onwards, it will be mandatory, and then we will have to look at it carefully, because now it is still not satisfactory in individual departments how far budget analyses are carried out in terms of the impact on men and women. In fact, there are very many different effects in terms of health, in terms of education, in terms of transport and labour market, and in terms of the different realities of life between men and women. This serious evaluation is also missing in the present budget. If you look more closely, you can see that there is very much a shift, from paid to unpaid work, which will again meet the women again in the future. As you all know, we are living in a country where income shears have now gone to a minimum, but I am afraid that, in the light of these budget measures, we are not opposed to the fact that we still have a national action plan on equality between men and women in the world of work on paper only. Nothing's happening. [[Abg. May. Worm:... in January!]] The law in January – here I am skeptical. You know, there are some points that are not so good. Above all, it will never meet the mass of women working in terms of income transparency, because most of the establishments that are being checked are not the establishments... [[Abg. May. Worm: 2014! Stage plan!]] There is a level plan, but by 2014, there will not be the large number of small businesses, where women are mainly employed. We will continue to discuss in January, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. May. Worm: Then we are happy together!]] There are also large savings measures in particular in the area, for example in the field of comprehensive afternoon care. We do not know how it continues, although the school discussion is being held permanently, but leads to nothing. And especially as regards investments in childcare, which would benefit women in particular, single-parents, the process is also slowed down by Minister Mitterlehner, who says that next year will be evaluated and no longer invest in a comprehensive childcare for children under three years of age. All measures directed against families are particularly hard on one-child families, and they are very often single-parents. They know that children in these families are twice as vulnerable to poverty, and how poverty is reduced, as opposed, unfortunately, this remains open. I would like to address another chapter, namely the reduction in care. It has been discussed several times today. But the fact that this is particularly happening to women was not very much in the conversation. This is true of women three times: First of all, women are mainly employed in the care profession, but it is also especially women who care, and there are very many women, especially in the care levels 1 and 2 to be cared for. And there was obviously no gender budgeting analysis done, otherwise you would see... [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Oh yes!]] I know that it is in your resort that you pay particular attention, but especially the fact that it will happen to women has not been countered, and I very much regret that. In some federal states, if you do not receive a care allowance, you can't use home help either. This means that many women and men who need care to a degree of 60 hours will not be able to use home help. And then who cares for them? – These are the relatives, and the relatives are mostly female in this case: the daughters, the daughters-in-law or the partners. And many women are in need of care. It is often true that, especially in women, when the need for care is classified, it is looked at exactly how far they can still lead the household on their own. And of course, women who have lived their lives in the household who have washed, washed, and cooked, even in old age, can do even better. Of course, many men who have not done so can do this worse in old age. And, unfortunately, that they are classified as more in need of care than women is reality. This means that many women will also meet in the care classification. I would still like to make a request for colleague Jarmer, although he is not quite appropriate to the issue now, since he concerns the Federal Disability Equality Act. I hope that this proposal will be put forward. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19714	The application is now under way. It has been properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19766	Next speaker: Mr Pack. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19787	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's debate has shown that it is undisputed that fiscal consolidation is not easy, but necessary, yes inevitable. We have seen from the example of many other countries what can happen if you live over the conditions. [[Abg. Kickl: Are there new debts or not?]] This is also one of the reasons for the need for consolidation and that savings in the field of active labour market policies are also acceptable. Mr Sozialminister, you have saved and reduced to the right extent in this budget area, and yet you have managed to make the third largest budget available in the area of the AMS. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With these resources, a lot can be achieved if one is to make a reasonable economy. The budget is also a sign of generation-righteousness. We want to reduce this depressing debt backpack for our youth, and that is why – you mentioned it in your speech – the vocational training of our young people is important. And the statistics are right: It has been reduced both youth unemployment and the apprenticeship gap. Mr Sozialminister! They plan to spend about € 140 million on over-company apprenticeship training. At the same time, you rightly stress that the better training is operational training because it is sustainable. It's quite clear: If the economy is unable to create these places, UbAs are accordingly good instruments. Nevertheless, we must focus very much on occupational jobs, on vocational training in the workplace, in order to enable sustainable vocational training in the sense of youth. The AMS has the resources and also the budget available. It is, however, relatively difficult – and you have always mentioned this in the Committee – to address regional aspects, and some apprentices have just been trained different from those in the region. The whole problem of course is to take appropriate measures if, instead of issuing regional budgets, the AMS issues budgets nationally or nationally and thus does not address regional aspects. – Mr Federal Minister, if you were still looking at this, we would be easier to do in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19830	Mr Delegate Dr. Spadiut is the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19851	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We must not forget about consumer protection in all the brilliance of the social budget. Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter, the responsibilities are distributed across different ministries. This decomposes you, Minister, but not the responsibility for consumers. Consumers are very little interested in what the distribution of competence looks like. Especially now, at a time when the climate in the coalition is very tense, it is not easy to find a consensus with the other ministers. You have not been able to enforce the new consumer protection law to be adopted. Most of your suggestions were not received in the government template. But this should be easier with your party colleague, Health Minister Stöger. There you should be successful, but the responsibility lies mainly with regard to the issue of health risk caused by excessive limit values, whether it concerns food, cosmetics or children's toys. Especially in the field of children's toys has not done much in recent years, and this, although two years ago a five-party application was submitted to the National Council. Meanwhile, the upper limit for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in tires is lower than for children's toys. It is not understandable, Minister, for me, to budget the debt advice that falls within your responsibility. Mr Maier said that there were no cuts in the budget in this respect. That's only conditionally correct. From the beginning of the economic crisis, the budget was reduced: €70 000 in 2008, €21 000 in 2009, and €20 000 in 2011 and €20 000, although there is an increase in aid seekers! In Upper Austria alone there were 4,000 new consultations, every eighth in Austria is at risk of poverty. The reason for the debt is, on the one hand, the economic crisis, but on the other hand, the search for a purchase, which one can quite count among the mental diseases. A total of 10 percent of the population last year were seriously at risk of purchasing; the trend is slightly rising. However, debt advice only makes sense with a common therapy, and here too you should seek consensus with Minister Stöger. Perhaps one should assign consumer protection to the Ministry of Justice – but this is not a criticism of your work, Minister – because justice has more means of negotiation, such as setting maximum premiums, regulations or controls. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Minister, look for consensus with colleagues from the other areas so that consumer protection can also be implemented well and effectively! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19905	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e19927	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The essential question in the fight against poverty – and many previous speakers have already mentioned that we are in the fight against poverty in the European Year – is that we have a work experience. At the initiative of the President, too, the InterACT theater of the poverty conference was a guest here in the House, and under the motto “No gravel to scratch the curve” was presented, how quickly a family can slid into poverty and despair, and that this family will break up when the job falls away when the work situation changes and one does not get into the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government, under Chancellor Werner Faymann, is the main concern of combating unemployment, promoting jobs and creating jobs. And it has also been shown that we have been on the road successfully, because, as the only country in Europe next to the Netherlands, we have received praise from the European Commission and the OECD, international praise that confirms that we have the labour market situation under control – despite a huge economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only say that there is a focus on tunneling among the liberals in this regard. If the colleague here is talking about how families are threatened in our society today, or if Mr Kickl is speaking here about the fact that he has a Romanian on every switch at a health office or at a social office or at the Federal Social Office or at other institutions, then, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, I would recommend: [[Abg. May. Stefan: What does “one” mean? Many!]] Turn off this tunnel look once! This also gave a certain amount of added value to your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government's budget has been tied with reliability, with an eye, and above all with justice, justice in the direction that had to be saved on the one hand, on the other hand, additional revenue has also been opened up. Ladies and gentlemen! The fight for these revenues was marked by loud conflicts. It is due to the hard work of the Social Democratic members in the government that we have the banking tax that we have the wealth growth tax that we have foundation tax and corporate tax. [[Abg. Grosz: Say, do you believe all that you say?]] [[Abg. Grosz: speaking time!]] Mr Grosz, I think it would be time for you to finally go milking mice, ants or anything else, because your contributions in the House are not exactly marked by attention, reliability and justice, as is the budget of the Social Democratic Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20020	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20042	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Lapp, just a small addition: We don't have a tunnel view, we're the only party with a wide view in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens.]] But now to the budget. – It has already been mentioned several times by my previous speakers that this red and black government has succeeded in achieving incredible goals, especially to punish the weakest in our population with a tax package. While it seems impossible to finally implement profound administrative reforms in Austria in order to save here, the weakest ones are being shamelessly taken into their pockets. A particularly sad highlight of these non-social savings, which the government is now making, are those of the disabled. In this way, access to Stages 1 and 2 will also be greatly hampered in the course of the reduction of the care allowance. You, Mr Social Minister, told us earlier that these measures will affect 10,000 people. I'll tell you: This will affect far more people, and I also tell you that you are deliberately throwing wrong numbers around here to deceive us all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is like a red thread through the budget that our federal government does not really have much left for the families in Austria. Is it really clear to you what would happen if not countless people in Austria were not to care for their needy relatives? Many caregivers would then be completely without support. And those who care lovingly and with much commitment for their families are now being punished. Many caregivers want to be cared for at home rather than in a nursing home, and therefore this measure should be completely rejected. Another major cut for disabled people in this budget is that the standard consumption levy will no longer be refunded to disabled people. The fact that the state also deserves to buy a vehicle for disabled people is almost inappropriate! Many disabled people depend on a vehicle, since it is difficult for them to move at all or not at all possible to move mobilely. Unlike you, Minister, many do not have a bus with chauffeur. We are also putting in place a motion for a resolution to fix this situation. In our proposal, we call for VAT to be reimbursed again in the case of the purchase of motor vehicles for disabled persons in the form of promotion to people who, due to their disability, are unable to move on. This would be a real relief for those concerned. One thing has to be clearly stated: It must not be that people who are already restricted in their mobility due to their disability are also asked by the state to cash out! That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support my request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20123	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20177	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20199	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen with a wide view! I would like to speak briefly to the previous speaker because of the ‘Chauffeur’. I would just like to point out that government members in the FPÖ's state governments are also driving chauffeur. And I think that's good. It is important – and this is what I would like to use for the ÖVP members in the countries and the federal government – that the work is right, and then you also need a chauffeur because you have to set some distances. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to highlight another subject, and these are the pensions. We also have to make consolidations with pensions, because all the population groups have to make a solidarity contribution. The pension system must be stable. It must not happen to a pyramid game by people hoping that the next generation of previous ones will pay everything and perhaps even pay more. It can't go on like this. This is a social injustice. Generational justice is far too short for me throughout the debate on justice. This is not against the pensioners. Austria also has a structural problem, regardless of the financial and economic crisis. It is the expensive and unsocial access to the pension. In 2009, male pensioners had already expected 22 years of pensioners and 28-year-olds. This can no longer be covered with the contributions. That's where we come into a vicious circle for our state budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there should not be any intervention here in existing pensions. In conclusion, however, I should like to highlight one aspect: the average age of retirement. This is at 53 years for the ÖBB staff, the average of the Austrian retirement age is 58 years, and it should be 60 and 65 years by law. That is, 80 percent of all Austrians go to retirement too early. The trend towards early retirement must be stopped!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20248	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20269	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Wöginger has been at the speaker's desk a few hours ago and has been blasphemous that several Members went home early this night so that they can be there in time today. Mr Wöginger, your clubman, Mr Kopf, was not here, you were not here, and Klubobmann Cap was not here either! [[Abg. Jacob Auer: He was there!]] I was present until the end of the session, so I can say it. And yet I was in the main committee at eight o'clock today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's how you do politics. You point your finger at others, and you do the opposite yourself. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: They say the untruth!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Dr Bartenstein.]] This is the policy of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister Hundstorfer, you have been here before and have said that you always do what you say and that you stand at your word. Is that really the case? Mr. Minister, I have a paper here entitled: ‘Week to the future’, the SPÖ investment programme for transport infrastructure – as at: 25. ==References== [[The speaker shall keep the said document up to date.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is literally in there: "For the SPÖ, there is no further increase in taxes and charges for private drivers. This means a clear no to increase car tolls or a further increase in mineral oil tax." I remind you: That was in 2006. Now you're in government for four years. In these four years you have repeatedly raised the price for the vignette, our requests to prevent this have always been rejected in the committees. In addition, you have increased the mineral oil tax several times, and now it is raised by you again. If I have to observe the commuters, the workers, the employees who have to drive to work, then I have to say: You have broken your word! This is the SPÖ policy, Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let me get back to work. The BZÖ Headquarters shall be as follows: Work must pay off, performance must pay. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You've already taken this because you've seen that's the right way. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You haven't been there yet!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I'll tell you something. A few days ago, a company manager asked me to help him get several workers from the AMS for his company because he just has too few people. These were 30 persons. Then I personally called the AMS and they really sent workers. Only – now the Krux comes up! –, no one of them wanted to be stopped. You know why? – Because the social system is so exaggerated in us that these people deserve more if they do not work. They have more in their pocket at the end of the day than when they go to work and earn 1 100 € gross. [[Abg. Krainer: Maybe you just pay too little!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong policy. You have to intervene to drive the state forward and bring back taxes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] I'm now coming to the contractor's liability. Whoever has a small business, makes investments there and has to make material payments, tries to get ahead. The fact is that he must pay out social security not only for the persons he has employed and for his work, but also for the material he applies in the offer. This is an abuse of social security. Mr Minister, at the end of the day I propose that you make an administrative reform. Save the 21 social security funds and make them one of them! You have always said that we do not make concrete proposals: Here's one.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20409	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20430	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, from tonight and the presence, we only know: There were still five members of the BZÖ here, and your chairman Bucher was not here either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hagen: No, it's not true!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the debate today concerns three areas: Work, social and consumer protection. [[Abg. Grosz: Balduin, the night ghost!]] Mr Federal Minister, you have presented work and social things with great passion, but unfortunately you have not lost a single word on consumer protection, and that is a pity, because in this area we are dealing with the immediate protection of people. This is about meeting us in all areas of life, whether at work, in leisure or at home. It is very often a question of people being accused of being deceived. This is true of us in all situations of life. In short: We can't escape it, we're delivered to it. Therefore, this issue should also be devoted to a very large space. It is a pleasure in this context that the budgetary resources that have remained almost the same as we had available in the past. What remains, of course, is also the question of what happens to these funds and how the topics are dealt with. Around 56 percent of the total budget travel to the VKI, to the Association for Consumer Information. That's good, because this VKI is doing excellent work. The question, however, is, whether you, Mr Federal Minister, or the Ministry, if you already allow more than half of this budget to flow from your area there, you also have a say in it, whether you can also say: We put one or the other focus! or whether you simply accept results like that. Finally, on another issue, which is important: They recently presented the Consumer Protection Action Plan. But this is a paper, a collectionurium, which is not from your home, but is summarized by the various organizations in the field of consumer protection. The curious thing about this is: It partly contradicts the government programme, it is partly outdated or no longer contemporary. That's why I'm saying: We have a lot of work in this area. I would like you to step up this work. However, I am convinced and I assume that you will also take this responsibility seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20487	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20509	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The Freedom Party considers that the re-feeling I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. We therefore want to offer these people an alternative. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, take advantage of this opportunity! Think about and support You're asking for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20560	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20617	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see this opportunity to go back to two points. One point is: In the case of the NOVA refund, the following information must be clarified. We are making up of a system in which there were 3,600 people affected in the past, a new allowance that will affect 30,000 people. That is, instead of 3,600 people, 30,000 people can apply for this allowance. [[Abg. Oils: ‘free-of-charge’?- Oh, my God!]] This is an amount of money – not a question at all – just as the 3,600 were people who found themselves in a certain situation. A compensation beneficiary – here we agree, as I mean – has never been able to afford a new car by € 25,000. - That's the one point. The second point is this, ladies and gentlemen: Figures presented by the poverty conference have been discussed here, namely that more than 300,000 people have problems in contesting and heating their daily lives. That's a number you can and must deal with. Heating costs subsidies are primarily national. But at the same time accusing me of increasing the number of minimum insurance providers is perfide. It is precisely the minimum guarantee that is part of the answer to help these people. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] You should take note of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20686	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20708	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! We debate a very, very important area – an area that the Austrian population and, above all, the poorest of the poor will soon feel massively. That's anything but a glory leaf. The two parties of the government always judge us that this package is socially balanced or – as I always hear here – alternatively without any alternative. I really can only say 100 percent. With regard to the social state, there are several levels concerned. As mayor, I'm telling you: The municipalities are heavily affected. I got my hands on some press articles. I'm just quoting these headings: “Congregations are from the last hole”, “Finanz-Desaster bei Österreich’s Gemeenteindeken”, “Schuldenkaiser”, 70 percent of the municipalities are deficit, “no room for investment”, “turn around at the fees”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this applies to this Federal Government faster than it wants to believe. If it is called “no room for investment”, it is particularly felt by small and medium-sized businesses. 70 percent of these do not create a balanced budget, have a negative financial peak. We face areas that are not taxable. Expenditure in the social field is increasing dramatically. The revenue is falling significantly, but is now regaining itself. However, the trend is clear: The communities can't make it anymore. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen: Who gets to feel it? - Again every single citizen. Look at the national legislation! It's already overcrowded here. They say: There's the new room! Increases rates, increases rates! That's the wrong answer. You make a budget here, which each individual Austrian will feel – the poorest layers quite massively – and at community level the same game once again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The entire health sector, the nursing sector, also the school sector – because there the communities are usually school holders – shouts for reforms. They are involuntary, even inability to reform. A group colleague from my group has already asked you to think about why you are so persistently refusing to reform the administration and the state. That is the answer to the ÖVP when it always says that this package is alternatively non-existent. On the contrary! You didn't trust me. They fail in a health reform, they fail in the care reform, they fail in all areas where reforms belong to the table. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The answer to the reflective statement, the opposition always demands things, I can give. That's where I can say: We have a truly unwarranted witness, that is the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is constantly presenting proposals where meaningful investments could be made if you were at last prepared to save. They persist in the non-reformable area. You just don't want to notice that there is enough money there to lift. Finally, you also relieve the communities, otherwise you will need a community rescue package very soon after a bank rescue package!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20781	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20802	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Sozialminister! Now we're about to get over it. Of course, in the whole budget debate, I am very sad that we can discuss it for days, bring in various proposals, but in reality will not change the budget, even if the opposition proposals are still so good. [[Abg. Kickl: By “operating accidents”!]] – Except for “operating accidents” in votes caused by SPÖ and ÖVP! Then something changes. That was very pleasing for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you have already been strongly criticized by many for the cuts in the social field. We too condemn these cuts. But I could still understand cuts under the spasm. We could still understand cuts in the social field because we may have to save. But what is not going on is not to save any euro in the administrative field. They only save on the citizens, but not on the administration. You have to explain to me why we need 22 social security institutions. We have a pension insurance institution, we have nine local health care telephones, six operating telephones – Austria Tobacco, Kapfenberg, Mondi, voestalpine railway systems, Vienna transport companies, tentways –, we have a general accident insurance institution, we have a social insurance institution of the industrial industry, a farmers' social insurance institution, an insurance institution for railways and mining, an insurance institution of the Austrian notary and an insurance institution official. – All with board members, all with well paid supervisory boards and all with well paid directors! There you would have to save, then the population would also understand savings in the family and care sectors, but not if you did not save here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, there are 17 hospitals for which you are not responsible, but where there could be incredible savings potential. Then we did not need to save on the pensioners and especially on the “little ones. ” But no, you don't. You don't want to do anything here – and you know that! – because the social security funds are divided between red and black. The local health phone is red, the farmers' social insurance institution is black-led, the farm funds are red, and the social security of the industrial economy is black in turn. That's how it goes. There are board members everywhere, supervisory councils everywhere, general directors, who are used exclusively by red and black in sad coalitional harmony, and on the other hand, we strongly defend ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] In the course of the economic crisis, Mr Federal Minister, you together with your coalition partner had a historic opportunity not only to make a state reform, but also to do something in the social security field. But it seems to be more important to provide our own artists in these areas than to make real money from these savings available to the citizens. I would like to tell you another area where you can save because I am FPÖ's agricultural spokesperson. [[Abg. Hornek: At the club contributions!]] We've discussed it before: How can you account for hundreds of thousands of euros of agricultural support going to 3 per cent of Austrian farms? How can you, as a Social Minister, who introduces a minimum guarantee, be responsible for following a Groom Agriculture St. Martin 170 000 € per year that you will re-possess a estate Allacher 270 000 € – all tax-free – that you will pay a farm Stift Schotten 378 000 €, that you will pay a Heinrich Privatstiftung 1 million €, or that you will be spending 1.7 million € tax-free per year on a Foundation Prince Liechtenstein in Kalwang? [[Abg. Grill: This is nothing but the untruth!]] You as the Minister of Social Affairs cannot account for this. That's not what we're fighting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know you represent the Landadel and the Great Groundowner. [[Abg. Grosz: And the sheep! The dog's grave represents the sheep, the great landowner, the land nobility!]] That's where you really need to save effectively. Mr Sozialminister, it is a request: Get the belt tighter where it concerns your own artists and friends, because then you don't need to save on the families, in the care area or with the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20918	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e20940	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister, do not pack up yet! We're not finished yet. Christmas holidays haven't yet arrived, Mr. Sozialminister! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your speech here today in all your self-glorification, which you have embodied from the government bank, has already challenged me to clarify some things. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] What you, Minister, have drawn here today, this picture of the healing world, how great it is, how great your social policy is, how good it is for people in this country, how poor, less-favoured or less-income people give you daily applause, what a great social policy you are doing, because everything is best in the country, is not so. Mr Sozialminister, you are completely wrong. And if you really believe what you have said here today, I'm just more sorry, Minister of Social Affairs. Then I'm really sorry. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are publishing a daily newspaper today, the daily “Today”, which is also read by 100,000 people, you can read the headline – it is not a cheap, polemic claim of the opposition, as you always say: ‘108,000 cold apartments!’ – In Vienna alone, Minister of Social Affairs! Does that move you? [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: He thinks this is funny!]] Did you comment on this today? – It remains cold in 108 000 apartments. I quote from this article: “Mothers cannot heat the apartment for their children, pensioners ask themselves the question: “Shall I eat or heat?” – quoting. Should I eat or heat? – I add, they still have to consider: Or should I pay rent? [[Abg. Oils: Increase minimum security!]] Because they can only distinguish between eating or heat or renting because people cannot afford anything else. [[Abg. Oils: Minimum security!]] To the people in the 108 000 households that sit in Vienna, in sweaters, in sweaters with hoods, with fists on Christmas Eve, because they cannot afford heating, there are another 200 000 across Austria; in total there are 300 000 households, Mr Sozialminister, and you want to advance the healing world here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] This is a scandal that you have said today to what is always said in the public! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That's not the truth! Why don't you go out and tell me what you want to do about it? Or what do you do about the fact that over the last ten years alone, especially in the last three years, all the costs of energy, mobility, electricity, average heating per household increased by €5,000 per year, Mr Sozialminister? - I don't hear from you. [[Abg. Oils: Blue-black!]] Or what do you say? – Another newspaper article from the “Kronen Zeitung”: Mothers at the minimum of existence, stay for food 8 €, families lack money to live. Thousands of mothers, single mothers in this country, ask themselves the same question every day as the people who cannot heat their homes: 8 € to eat? That is the reality in this country, and not your beauty and beautiful speech about the social state, which, as you believe, does not exist at all, Minister of Social Affairs. That's the truth a few days before Christmas. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Or your constant fight against mobility. I would have expected you, Minister of Social Affairs, to stand up and say: I am not involved in a burden on people who are dependent on mobility. And I speak not only of the 1.8 million commuters, but also of those who are not commuters, of mothers who bring their children to the doctor, of mothers who have to do the shopping that lives on the land, of workers who live on the land who depend on their car. I don't hear from a social minister who says: Friends, what happens to the Pendler Pauschale is an unjust system! Mr Sozialminister, 1.8 million commuters are in the country – and only every second is in the best interests of a pendulum fee! And you know why? - Because he deserves too little, not too much. He deserves too little and can therefore not charge the penalty on the tax at all because he falls below the income limit of € 11 000. That's the truth, every second donor pays 100 percent of his car, Sprit, pays the maintenance costs, the maintenance, must come up full. Do you know what a car means for a donor today? – A luxury property in which he has to put a large part of his income so that he is mobile at all. This is the real situation, Mr Social Minister, in this country, and you are nagging it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You totally ignore that, you don't care. You don't care about the pendlers. You don't care about the people sitting in the cold apartments. You don't care about the single mothers who can't afford the food anymore, but you have beautiful Christmas, Minister of Social Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] You will celebrate wonderful Christmas on Friday, with a rich gift table, you may still be making a nice holiday, but your social conscience, Mr Sozialminister, has long been yours. You are unbelievable, you are not a social minister, you are an anti-social minister and should actually resign!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21116	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on these topics have thus ended. [[13:04:59]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21141	We are now entering into the negotiation of subdivision 24: Health. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21167	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner, for these advance ladyberries, I will make an effort. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] One thing can be seen in advance: It is not only the social budget in social terms, it is also the health budget more than non-social. Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, you know that it doesn't look good in the health insurance companies, and you know that our health insurance funds belong to rehabilitated. We pointed out in the Committee that this cash-flow structure fund, which had now been paid €100 million in 2010, is worth €40 million over the next four years. It will therefore be very difficult to continue the consolidation path of the health insurance companies. You then told us that it was never planned to continue teaching it, and that it was, so to speak, a goodwill of your person that money would even go there. Federal Minister! In February 2009, you spoke quite differently. After the clause of Sillian, you said: This cash-flow structure fund can later also be equipped with more money than €100 million, and this Structural Funds is a permanent fund to pay off the benefits that the State requires from the insurance companies. So now everything's different. Now, suddenly, there's no more money and that's just your goodwill. Mr. Federal Minister, the crisis was already there in February 2009. Obviously there are very different problems here. It seems to be the money that flows to Greece, to Ireland and elsewhere, the money that must now be saved on the back of the sick in Austria. I am already wondering how this will affect, and I am now taking out the example of the Vienna regional health fund. You know, that's the health insurance fund that's particularly bad. Not only that this cash register is particularly indebted, which is still the highest of all, is it so that there is now a highest court ruling that this health insurance fund also has to repay about €20 million. The answer to the question of where the cash will take the money remains to us. They also owe us the answer to when, in what time frame, this money has to be repaid. How does this affect the debt of this health insurance fund? Then when will this health insurance be standing in front of the pleite again? This means in clear text: This is half of what will be distributed to all health insurance companies in the next year. You can assume that the health insurance fund in Vienna will get nothing at all next year. It will therefore be particularly difficult for this health insurance fund. And here I wonder how you can imagine how this is going to continue. It is also interesting that the head of the main association, Mr. Schelling – even before you were in Loipersdorf – said that he expects similar cost reduction potential to be exploited by other system partners, for example from the hospital area. Mr Federal Minister, you have had a good approach, yes, as we were immediately of your opinion, namely that the hospital administration should be harmonised. But she hasn't enforced it. All the heads of state immediately cried out no, and the idea was obviously back from the table. There is nothing left of it, and it is also apparent in this budget that nothing of it will remain and nothing of it will remain. – This concerns the health insurance fund, which is the construction site number one in the health field. Next construction site: AGES. The AGES is the Agency for Health and Food Safety. In the future, whenever – even there you owe us an answer, from whenever this is to apply, i.e. at the earliest beginning of 2012, possibly later on – you want a federal tax on food companies in Austria to be lifted. They called it moderate. I asked you at the time if you did not think that this tax would, of course, be transferred to consumers. – You, too, have remained guilty of this answer. Finally, precisely these charges are transferred to consumers, and all products will become more expensive again. But – and now I come back to the beginning – this law will apply at the earliest from 2012. Where will the AGES take the money next year? After all, this is a gap of € 2 million. Where do they take the money from? – From your place of business, the money no longer comes in the direction of AGES. The law is not yet valid. Who will pay for this, and what consequences will this have for the AGES? Even today – and that is what you have answered in a request yourself – it is so that the food authorities in the countries are far, far below the size of the plan, so the food controls are far too rare. - We have seen what results from it. That means you're starving the AGES. However, the fact that it is the citizens who have to bear these consequences, if not properly controlled, should keep that in mind. That's exactly what you owe us. This is just as a construction site in the health resort, as there are many, many others, as you have no solution for e-medication at all, for ELGA and so on. You leave all these construction sites open. All these funds are not given, and you have not answered any question in the Committee. You have not given a concrete answer to any question, your only answer was that you told us – a literal quote from the Minister of State in the Committee – that: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Oberhauser]] It is my good will that in the next few years the cash-flow structure fund will receive € 40 million each. – Mrs Oberhauser, you were sitting there, you must have heard it. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: We must have been in a different committee!]] Mr Federal Minister, this is a very weak statement for a budget for an area that is very important!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21216	The next speaker was Mrs Oberhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21237	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Belakovich-Jenewein! Yeah, we were in the same committee, and I'm, I have to confess, a little surprised. I do not know if you remember that you were sitting next to Mr Hofer, who unfortunately is not here today, thanking Mr Bundesminister very explicitly for the beneficial way in which the questions were answered and for which he was answering in the light of the fact that he answered objectively and appropriately what had not been the case in other committees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Mrs Colleague, you say that the Minister did not answer a single question. Then I wonder: Is this the cheap populism? – I think it is because, I think, Member Hofer cannot be accused of having to do something to the Minister. The second about the €40 million – what you read – is in no way contrary to what we now have. Of course, this fund, which was paid €100 million in 2010, could have been spent in 2011 with €200 million, €300 million, €400 million or anything else, but there was no number inside, and there is no question that we are not pleased that only €40 million are inside. But we are pleased that it is at least €40 million – and now we are fast prescribed for the next few years. That is, we have for the first time tax money with a fixed commitment for the next four years in the system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – Obviously, it could have been more, that is not a question, but it does not contradict what you say. In other words, the Minister does not say the untruth in any form. There was a fund in 2010, which was doped. He could've been more educated, yes, that's right. It's not him. We know the financial resources are tight. We also know, however, that the local health phone is very careful to deal with the money and that the start-up funding by the cash fund has worked, and we will see that we will continue with €40 million. I share your concern for the Vienna regional health insurance fund. However, you do not need to worry that the Minister of State must somehow rework these €20 million, €40 million. This results in the cash-flow structure fund, the cash balance, the compensation fund in the health insurance companies. This is what social insurance companies are all about, how they are distributing the money there. There's no need for Mr. Minister. For this we have a self-management, a well-functioning self-management. I think we can rely on that. You have already said a few points: We have the inclusion of the minimum social security recipients, i.e. e-card for all. We have the inclusion of children in accident insurance in the compulsory kindergarten year. That too is something that causes extra costs. In terms of savings from the Federal Budget, we believe that the contribution to rural accident insurance will no longer be borne, but will be covered by the reserves in the coming years. Mr Grillitsch has spoken here of the unolidarian performance of the Minister of Health that he should take an example of Rudi Hundstorfer on how to deal with farmers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't!]] So it's quite clear that the health insurance fund, including the peasant, is not a savings club. In other words, we will now look at how things continue in the next few years – Mr Donabauer laughs – because we have made it quite clear for the next few years that a project and structure must be created so that rural accident insurance can also be available for its members in the next few years. If you have heard the “Morgenjournal” today, those who were there on time in the early days, you have not only heard Mr Van der Bellen, who said that he was coming today only around noon because he had nothing to do before, but you have also heard that, as part of the budgeting, the deficits of the hospitals, which are currently assigned to the countries, are Maastricht criteria effective. In other words, we will have increased pressure in the next few years to bring down the budgets in the hospital sector. This is where Minister Stöger, in particular with his proposals for a uniform health care right, but also for transparent funding on the right track – did not fall by any means, but on the right path. [[Call:Inhibited]] The head of the association Schelling supports him in these plans, and I am convinced that Minister Stöger will also bring this problem into line, just as he has put all the other problems in place.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21298	The next speaker was Mr Greenewald. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21319	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Occasionally, politics – at least in part – also applies to the presumption of innocence. Mr. Stöger, you are innocent that you have too few competences. You're innocent in part that there's so little budget. What can be blamed for is the following: if you just praise the good and don't say where there are still deficits, if you deny that the health insurance companies, they should really want to offer all of them fair and fair modern medical services, need more money and don't spend long on this money. We must not be surprised if the budget is not increased in any way if the Minister for Finance is not aware of it. This is really displayed here, I think. It is also not to be seen that entire groups of people with certain diseases – psychologically ill, people with rare diseases, genetic diseases, memory disorders, children and old people – do not get what otherwise young adults really get, with full replacement. If you break your foot, you have a heart valve defect, you need a kidney, so that is carried completely by the health insurance companies, the consequences are also borne. If you are mentally ill, especially children, you wait months, partly years to come to a diagnosis and a therapy, and once it is so far, the benefits of the cash desks are only partially cancelled. Self-retaining parents with children with handicap and mental disorders is enormous and exceeds the possibilities of many. There are little appeals to wellness and fitness. Wellness programs and fitness programs as prevention achieve mainly wealthy layers, and they are healthier anyway. Also advertising campaigns for a healthier life are not down-to-earth – PISA – which are also perceived and followed by the educated. That means you have to go to the people. One may also have to say and discuss with the Minister of Social Affairs and the Chancellor that societies with a large social gap between the poor and the rich are much more vulnerable to disease than those who show a somewhat more homogeneous society. It would have to be said what education has to do with it. Once a book was published on defects in pediatrics, and what happened to scientifically sound and undisputed authors? - They were sued for vocation damage. If you read more carefully and ask experts, you can see that this is all right. We need centres of competence for rare diseases because there are treatments that improve diagnosis. That means you should really show where the deficits are. And the people who have these shortages in the supply need to be cared for like everyone else. I think it is extremely unfair for people and diagnostic groups, which you are now meeting simply to eliminate by doing something fully funded, only half-financed or currently not financed at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They could also point out – and this has nothing to do with Sunday speeches or moral dusel – what financial consequences the state has to bear if one does not intervene here, if mentally ill children fail in school, fail on the labour market, that will cost all money. Here you could beat the table firmly. In my opinion, the main association and you have presented good concepts, even if the doctor's chamber has not kindly included them in every detail – I say carefully now – but in principle they are not bad. I would like to see that now not the main association and ministry show who is the better, but work together to reach a goal that gives all Austrians the chance of more health. That's budget-effective. Healthy is cheaper than sick! – You should say that to Mr Pröll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21373	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21395	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I believe that we must once again declare some kind of new honesty in health policy. We have to define what we really want. As a politician, I would also like to get lost in the financial debate because we always say that is the most important thing. First of all, I would recommend everyone to consider: We are all human beings, and humans are transitory beings. Peripheral beings can get sick once, and they don't know when they get sick, where they get sick and how they get sick. That's a very simple knowledge, you don't have to have studied medicine for that. How this is handled is the case X, when you fall down and get a heart attack, that's the crucial question in health care. That is why there has been a government programme, and in this government programme there is a very great sentence in it because it is mine. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: How could it be different?]] – No, not from me, but from me fully contributed: The Federal Government is committed to a high-quality health care for all – listen! – regardless of age, income, origin, religion and gender. That's the crucial sentence. He is so inconceivable, but I would recommend to everyone – including the people from the main association, from the doctor's chamber, who wishes to read this sentence because everything derives from him and not from the cash contribution. Secondly, When we talk about Austrian health care, it is always presented as a sick being. Today, the honourable Member from the BZÖ has asked when the health reform is finally coming. – The health reform is a daily effort. There is not the big Big Bang, the big rocket you start, and then the health reform arises. It is also unfair to compare the health reform with a school reform. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] In school, the situation is that way – says Androsch, not me –: the fourth highest cost, the fourth worst results. I am not sure, Minister, whether we are the world leader in the healthcare market, but at least we are pretty good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you. I too am delighted with applause. Every summer hundreds of Austrians flee from countries that are not as underdeveloped as Spain, Portugal et cetera. As an insider, I think it is justified that people have fled. That means that we are really very good in some areas, and it also fills me personally with joy if I have a patient who has been transplanted for three years and does not pay a big one. There too the social aspect is appropriate. But I am full of Deputies Green Forest. I listened exactly. His example with the four years and the six years is true: Those who have insufficient access to education, those who have inadequate financial resources, have worse health cards – and that is not the case. You always use the example with the four years in Vienna: ==References== Districts live four years longer than in the 20th century. District – only separated by the Danube. This, of course, has a reason that is not just a matter of health policy. Poorers have less life expectancy for up to six years. That is, we are good, we should not talk ill – we are at the level of the Austrian ski team when we talk about health care – but we should also look at a new honesty where there are shortcomings. There are defects – you have already cut it – in child health, in the child psychiatric system. There is also a lot to be done in rural care. And we have – what is very moving – a miscarriage also in Austria. In the OECD comparison, we have had little increase in the last 15 years. It is a complete trick if it is always said that everything has become so expensive. On average, Austria had an increase in health costs of 2.9 percent, the OECD average being 3.9 percent. That means a lot has already happened. It is not always supposed to be said that the first national dialogue must now be invented. We have too many hospital stays: 2.7 million. The OECD cut in Austria would be only 1.7 million. That's a 40 percent delta. That is, in Austria too many people land in the hospital. It is now necessary to ask why, why, why. It was certainly not only the mayors, it was certainly not just the vain primarys, but I believe that the health insurance fund has invested too little in the outpatient sector in the last 20 years – for whatever reason. I could do this for a long time now, but it's cute. New honesty means that we should also redefine and better define the objectives. You don't need a master plan, you don't need the 70th national health conference. You don't need new vanity either, but you just have to read what's inside the government program. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We already have points in there: stroke, heart attack, cancer, dementia, diabetes, obesity, exercise, nutrition and, I think, what seems to be very important, suicide. It is incredible that in Austria twice as many people die of suicide as in road traffic – and it does not touch people. I think that should move us already in a country where we claim to be very good. If you have a family who killed or was close to it, then you know that tears whole families apart, creates long-term fates. This should not leave us cold, and not cold, to take this into account in health policy and not to look away. My last word: In the Czech Republic, a quarter of the hospital doctors are currently running – to Germany. Two thousand Austrian doctors are already working in Germany. Germany lacks 5,500 doctors. Why? – Because 60-hour weeks and heavy working conditions – especially for women – are not attractive conditions. In Austria – if I have read this correctly – the burn-out rate for doctors is 30 percent, with the sisters I don't know, but the length of stay in the profession is very short. We also need to deal with the 400 000 people who work in health care. That's why I'm pleading for new honesty and not for actionism.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21477	The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21499	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are no major changes to the health budget, nor are any reforms envisaged. The Minister of Health saves €28.9 million by removing the Federal contribution to the accident insurance of the Farmers' Social Insurance Institute, thereby additional burdening the farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] A lower requirement is generated by a lower disbursement of the health insurance fund – it is €60 million – and the additional requirement is €20 million by introducing the minimum guarantee. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gritish]] The expenditure on veterinary, food, genetic and radiation protection will be reduced from € 21 million to € 10 million for 2011, as the compensation to be paid in accordance with animal health regulations will no longer be financed. This again means a burden on farmers. Instead, an animal disease fund is established – that is, in German: Instead of savings in the administration, a new, more expensive institution is being set up to demand the money from farmers. It may be thought that part of this revenue will be used for this new administrative device. Instead of sticking to the animal disease telephone that has previously existed in three federal states and expanding it in Austria or demanding the money via the existing electronic platform of the Ministry of Finance, new administrative devices are being created. This shows once again the preference of our health minister for inflated administrations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No wonder that the general administrative burden of his ministry has increased by €10 million within two years, no wonder the Minister does not intend to put the 22 social security companies together. The Ministry of Health continues to accept the funding of the AGES. This is to be done by introducing a food tax via the Federal Act on the payment of a health and nutrition security contribution. This is to pay the pharmaceutical companies, pharmacies or food businesses. It is not difficult to calculate that this invoice will again be paid by the primary producer – the farmer – or the consumer. However, the most serious criticism, Mr Minister, comes because of the hospital reform that you have remembered and that has not yet been implemented. The approach was very good, it was even honoured by the population in a survey with a confidence increase of some percent. Unfortunately, only you have been forced into your knees by the Land Princes. According to your information, the reform with the new health care regulations is scheduled for 1. ==References== These three years of hospital reform are clearly too long for us. That means unnecessary extra expenditure. Dr. Schelling brings it in a broadcast of the 16th. On 1 December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States He says that the cash recovery package alone is not enough, that holistic reforms are necessary. 68 percent of the population support funding from a pot, almost half of it a reform in the hospital system. Minister! Announce the agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act and renegotiate to be able to start a health reform without delay. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister, walking You are! Hiking From a passive administration minister to an active reform minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21593	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21660	Next speaker: Mr Keck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21682	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Three years of economic crisis and three years of fighting the failure of banks and speculators have also left their mark in Austria. But unlike in many other countries, our federal government has won the fight against economic collapses. With us unemployment is falling, with us wages are rising, and with us the economy is growing again. [[Abg. Kickl: It's not over yet!]] This savings package, colleague Kickl, is the price that the global economic crisis has cost us, and yet thanks to the work of our government, we are able that the lawn mower does not rule in the savings package and that there are areas that we can exclude from a lawn mower philosophy. [[Abg. Kickl: Go!]] One of these areas is animal welfare, and I would like to thank Minister of Animal Protection Stöger for the same means in 2011 as in 2010. This means that we can continue to expand our reputation in 2011 because Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is a pioneer in animal welfare. In all the disputes and discussions in the last few days, it should be noted that animal welfare decisions are always a common success, because more than 95 percent of all animal welfare decisions in this House were taken unanimously. I would like to thank the animal protection speakers, especially Mr Vock, Mr Spadiut, Mr Brunner and Mr Eßl, for the fact that animal welfare shows that parliamentaryism is being used in a party way and can also work here in this House. The results, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen. With the new Animal Protection Commission, which we have now set up, we will be able to work even better and more practically. But we already have the best animal transport law in Europe, even now the cagekeeping of laying hens is forbidden in us, we already have the prohibition of cagekeeping for rabbits with the 1. January 2012 fixed. With the 2011 budget we will be able to invest further. The “Animal Protection Makes School” project has caused a sensation throughout Europe. We will continue to develop it in 2011. With the new Animal Protection Prize, we award the best animal welfare organisations, and we will also do public work for their important work in 2011. We also support the effort of private animal welfare initiatives with the budget. We conduct research, and we help where many close their eyes. I would like to mention once again the laboratory monkeys of Baxter and the animals from an earlier safari park. Only with the animal protection budget could we accommodate them in the good Aiderbichl. Of course, we will continue to devote ourselves to the pet sector. Already now we have developed an excellent international reputation with the pet database, with the chipping and registration of pet animals. This reputation has also strengthened us politically and made sure that dogs and cats have been included in the EU Animal Health Action Plan due to the suggestions of Austrian Members and that the next objective is the EU-wide harmonisation of the rules for pets. All this will be possible in 2011 with a budget that is a good signal for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21732	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21753	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, the dictatorship of empty cash in the municipalities, the federal government, but also in the cities, health policy is currently giving a real opportunity. Yesterday, the municipal financial report 2010 was presented, according to which the budgetary situation of the cities and municipalities has worsened dramatically. This is due to rising expenditure on health and social matters, the authors write. There is hope that there will be fronts – which would have been unthinkable a few years ago. Who would have thought that the countries and communities in particular would be forced to withdraw from their positions at some point in time. The discussion that has been held over the past few weeks and months – on the one hand, your proposal with the aggregation of hospital planning, on the other hand, the main association with its master plan – is just right. That is why I cannot understand, Minister, why such childish discussions are taking place at the moment – and I say it deliberately provocatively – and one of the other – seems to be the first step that does not want to be successful. I feel that these childish disputes of competence will not necessarily be conducive to the discussion. So that there is no misunderstanding here: I am of course of the opinion that the creation of a master plan is not one of the original core areas of the main association. However, if nothing has happened in this direction before, one must say that it is one of the core competences of the main association to preserve the interests of the insured. It is therefore not crucial who invites to a national health conference, but who is at all invited. The criticism of the medical chamber is of course also justified in this respect. That means that in the preparation of the Master Plan the board was not involved, of course, is also a condemnable matter from my point of view. Of course, it is more likely that the main association wants to achieve economic goals, which cannot be meaning and purpose and content of a social health system. It is also worth mentioning that a need planning without a provider – that is, without the medical profession – would represent and also constitute a missing structural reform. If you make improvements in the system, you should first ensure that you work in accordance with the law – especially the doctors in the hospitals – and we also need to talk about it. Where existing laws are not complied with, it must be sanctioned in a rule of law, and where one insists that the laws are not legible and viable, one should at least consider them, even if strong lobbys are behind them. One thing concerns me now, Minister. You have said in your statements on the current budget that it is one of your merits that there has not been any restriction on performance. – Probably know You don't even know it's not like that. I would like to tell you that quotas have been made this year in Vienna for the first time. Since mid-November there have been no more dates for research with large-scale radiology devices – if you need magnetic resonance or computer tomography – because the money – in order to say it flattly – has simply gone out. To blame for this is to cover the budget for this position, and that means simply and simply a rationing at the expense of the patients. Nor is it a secret that the patients can theoretically escape to a hospital, but contradicts all that we are constantly discussing here, and also an efficient and patient-oriented care. We need to take a closer look at this system, because if such practices enter a field of expertise – which, of course, also affects patient satisfaction – it is no longer far from that they enter a wider framework in the area of financing and, above all, in the supply sector. We must not let all of us like this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21832	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21854	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! There is no question that the overall responsibility for the budget is borne by the Minister of Finance and his State Secretary. [[Abg. Huber: Finance Minister!]] And they're doing their job well! The individual ministers must be responsible for the specific implementation. The Minister of Health is with us today, and we have the opportunity to discuss with him. What do I notice? – Service providers want to get more and pay less and less. That's the problem we're facing. There are many new-language concepts for this, but they do not help us all. What's the problem? - There's a lot of access. I would like to refer to some of the things you should talk about here. I believe that the settled area is subdivided. It would have to be more positioned and, as I have always said, better tariffs would have to be considered. A thorough medical discussion, for example, would save us a lot of money, many people say, because the wandering of patients between all disciplines could sometimes be saved. We are very committed to precautionary investigations, health investigations, but we must find that we have a high-bureaucracy. That's why a lot of people don't go there either. That's a mistake! I'm not throwing it before anyone, not the Minister at all. However, we should talk about this without passion and think honestly to find a reorientation. Minister! The current discussion shows that reorientations are possible. I've heard you're using a lot for a new division of competence in hospital issues. I congratulate you on this proposal, on this courage. We are happy to support you. The first way to achieve this will be to have financial compensatory negotiations. Previously, nothing goes because every operator, whether the countries or others, insists on his “rich” and his/her responsibilities and does not want to surrender. Each argues, with all possible often well-founded reasons, the need for all locations. We cannot leave that to one, that would be unthinkable; we must do so together. Minister! That you are capable of something, I noticed when you did not take €29 million away from the rural accident insurance, but only once abstained. They wanted an increase in the contribution rate. You didn't succeed. I don't want to take over now, but I'm telling you that you won't succeed in the future, because I think it's inventive. What we need, however, and we need your cooperation, is a realignment. I said that from the beginning. That I have no joy with it, you will believe me. We need to look at how we approach things and what we can do new and better in the future. We will also need to have many negotiations with the social partners. There's a responsibility I'll invite you to take over. It is interesting that this contribution was decided in 1973. You all know who was in the government in 1973. Why did that happen back then? Not because you love the farmers so much – for God's sake, we know that – but because this professional group has the highest accident risk and also an occupational insurance. [[towards SPÖ]] All who are active in the operation are insured. You have to remember that half of the fatalities in Austria fall into the quota of the farmers. This is not because they are so frivolous, but because the profession as such is dangerous. That's why it was also appropriate and correct that the federal government was involved in this with about 25 percent. In this area, we are facing a major challenge. We will solve them together and certainly start discussions with you in good time. Let me now turn to a subject that I have also mentioned. It's about the house pharmacies. We often and gladly talk about medical care in the country. Many young doctors no longer go to the rural regions because the home pharmacies were a major income factor for the doctor. Because of the freedom of establishment under the EU Directive, for which you cannot do anything at all, this is more or less in the river. I think we shouldn't let this go like that. We should have the courage to stand up as an Austrian and say that this is an Austrian specification. We will continue to work on such a solution in the future. There can be complaints that we do not need to fear. We only have to have the better arguments, then we will win. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21899	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21921	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have done a lot in the last few weeks. The objective of the announced hospital reform, which concerns you with clear allocations, clear responsibilities and their visibility, I can absolutely support if, for example, I think of the Upper Austria example. Although there have been reforms there in recent years, there are still very many double-tracks in the Linz Central Area, because party-political Schrebergärten are still being maintained and maintained. This example alone shows how important it is to introduce clear responsibilities. However, the countries have reacted negatively. Through the main association, they have commissioned a Master Plan Health with key components such as health goals, quality assurance and the like. This too is absolutely welcome. That, in any case, seems to me, now is the resistance of the doctor's chamber. I ask myself and ask now what is happening after these two very important announcements for me. What is going on in the direction of hospital reform? What is going on towards Master Plan Health? Since I have not yet been answered by you, I have to stick to the facts in the health budget. It should be noted that there is less money for the cash structure funds, that there is less aid for farmers' accident insurance, that more money will be needed for minimum security, for the implementation of the e-card. I noticed that you say goodbye to the core tasks of food safety, pharmacovigilance and disease safety and outsource everything. I also noticed that the financial resources to cover the prevention and prevention, which are also an important health goal in the Master Plan, remain the same. That's exactly what I think more money needs to be taken into control. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is not enough that as a precautionary and preventive measure, a good national action plan for nutrition is certainly to be launched. That's too little! We must also look at what is happening in the field of school health, what is happening in the field of child and youth health at all. How can we further develop the mother-child pass into a mother-child-youth pass? What about the abolition of self retention in the case of hospital expenses for children? What about the livability of therapies for children and young people? Mr. Minister! There is absolutely a need for action in this area. So far, child and youth health is limited to declarations of intent. We know that much is not all right here. Access to therapies is very different regionally in Austria. A positive example is Vorarlberg, where the parents, by the families, only a manageable restraint of about €5.50 is taken up. In all other countries, pre-financing needs to be carried out. One hour of psychotherapy costs 65 €, while the health insurance companies pay a maximum of 25 €. Thus, in the other federal states, for the families, much remains as “rest. ” That is why I wonder who will be able to afford it in the future. Do we have a social gap? Children from a social environment where parental incomes are correspondingly high that therapies are palatable can then also be offered. And all the others fall through the rust, so to speak. This government in particular is always so pleased to see the boundaries in order to assess how good or less good we are. We should also do so in this area. In Germany, therapies are up to 18 years old. Year of life included in health insurance, so there is nothing to pay for. In Switzerland, there is only a 10-percent retention. These suggestions and ideas should be taken up, because if we invest in this area, i.e. in children's and youth's health, we invest in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The follow-up costs that arise when repairs have to be made are always much higher than when investment is made in prevention and prevention. I miss a clear signal from your side in this direction. Perhaps this clear signal will come when we will discuss children's rights in the constitutional order in the new year, because the right to a healthy life, the right to children's health is probably an undisputed element. We from BZÖ have already put many requests in this direction. We will also request the establishment of a subcommittee in the next committee, because not only will such an important issue be dealt with by the side, but it will have to be taken very intensively by all.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e21991	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22012	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner, you formulate a huge demand catalogue to the Federal Minister. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: These were questions!]] You know, for six years, you've had time to do all that you're demanding here. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Health was not in my resort! Maybe I'll still be Minister of Health!]] You were in the government! [[Further call to the BZÖ.]] Yeah, yeah, she doesn't need to ask for it here today. A savings package without a reduction in performance is the characteristics of this health budget. Austria is very good in European comparison. [[Abg. Petzner: The history of Austria starts in 1945 and not only in 2000!]] You can get to the pult here. But now a little patience, please. In all places, savings packages are chained. There are cuts in the health system that raise costs for the sick. You know: In Ireland, the figure is €1.2 billion, in Greece € 2.1 billion, in Germany by € 10 billion and an increase in insurance contributions. At the same time, the cash-flow structure funds in Austria are being donated with €160 million. There is a health insurance in the course of the need-oriented minimum insurance in Austria for social assistance recipients, whose costs are borne by the Federal Government. It is also positive and correct – and I would like to point out – that the costs of agricultural accident insurance will now be paid out of reserves and that the contributions of farmers and self-employed will then be aligned with those of the ASVG insured persons. Austria employs more than 10 percent of GDP for its undoubtedly excellent health system. We can learn from current studies that most of the Austrians recognize the health system as the best in Central Europe and are satisfied with the services offered by the health insurance companies. At the same time, however, the study also points to the job contract for the future, because 77 percent require a comprehensive health reform. People in Austria have every access to the health system, even if there are inequalities in the federal states through different structures. In our opinion, the challenges for the future are also here. Minister Stöger formulated the objective: central health planning at the federal government, federal law on institutions, uniform framework conditions for the interaction of hospitals, group practices and established areas and focus on prevention. Mr Federal Minister, we support your path as a basis for greater efficiency and, above all, for security of supply in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22090	Next speaker: Mr Vock. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22112	My President! Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: His president!]] Unfortunately, I have not heard Mr Keck's speech before. I can imagine, however, that he will have explained the same thing as at the first reading, namely that in the field of animal welfare there has hardly been any reductions or any reductions. Minister! This does not surprise me, because in the animal welfare sector, the federal government has hardly had a budget for years – even before your time – because animal welfare is finally privatized in Austria. We also have a very good animal welfare law. However, there is a lack of individual points, most of which would cost little, and would hardly be burdened with the budget. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that we should finally raise animal welfare in the constitutional order. It doesn't cost us anything. There was already an all-party application in the National Council in 2005 which has not yet been implemented. I know the SPÖ is ready to talk. It is once again the ÖVP, which is obviously the blocker in such important laws. Infringements against the Animal Protection Act are hardly suspected. It's not either. Your place of business, which bears responsibility for it, but the judicial body or, at any rate, the Ministry of the Interior as regards the controls. Take the long-haul animal transports as an example: If I'm caught by cigarette smuggling today, it's obvious that the goods are confiscated. The cigarettes are taken away from me. No one would be able to replace me with the value of these smuggled cigarettes. This is different when it comes to animal welfare. First of all, almost no confiscation at all, and if, then the smuggler gets the value replaced. What applies to cigarettes, however, must also apply to our animal welfare! The Animal Protection Act provides for the possibility of confiscating the animals and also the trucks. If the chauffeur of an animal transport has to go home on foot, because there has been a gross violation, then I look at whether this will be a repeater. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Donations can now also be tax deductible, as we know, but unfortunately not in the field of environmental and animal protection. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As already stated in the introduction, numerous animal welfare tasks have been privatized in Austria. That's what non-profit associations do. The conservation of animal shelters, for example, is transferred to the countries, which continue to transfer the budget to these non-profit associations for two thirds. If we are already privatizing animal welfare work and assigning it to non-profit associations, we should at least make their work easier for them through the tax deductibility of donations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22168	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22227	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22248	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Opinion polls are conducted in good regularity, in which people are questioned, which areas, which areas of life, which topics are particularly important to them. In addition to family and work, health is always one of the most important issues that people are sure to consider. The desire to live and grow old is understandablely strong, but this is also true of the whole boy. Last year we conducted a youth study in Upper Austria and saw that the topic of health is also at the top of the list among young people. That may surprise some. However, if you have been able to observe the health status of children and young people for more than 30 years, like me or many of my colleagues, this is quite understandable. We already experience children with back problems in the age of school, we experience young people with massive attitudes, we experience overweight and obese children, we experience children whose motor skills are more than modest, we are increasingly experiencing juvenile diabetes and so on and so on. If you take all of this together, you can actually talk about a disastrous finding that just yells for immediate action. That is where I come to the government agreement, Minister of State. In this context, some national action plans have been discussed, including diabetes, obesity, dementia, exercise, nutrition and some other areas. It is also announced a strategy for a healthy school. If I now think that it is extremely necessary to implement these points, this will require a joint effort by all health professionals. I am now emphatically emphasizing the word “professional” because, when it comes to this, it will also be an extremely popular field of activity of so-called narrow-track professionals or self-proclaimed experts of various disciplines. This is about quality assurance now. Quality assurance, Mr Minister, can only guarantee the registration of professionals in the Government Convention by the appropriate over-company interests, which has long been due. For my area, I can say that MTD-Austria as the umbrella of the elevated medical and technical services has been ready for this for a long time and is waiting for its implementation. Back to the topic of prevention: In the long term – and this is absolutely nothing new – our high-quality health system will only be able to be maintained if we manage to keep more people healthy longer. The courses for this should be set as early as possible, most useful already in the kindergarten. Mr. Minister, you have already taken a first step with the National Food Action Plan. The logical next step would be a National Action Plan of Movement, as mentioned many times, from kindergarten age to school to movement promotion in the establishments. [[Abg. Petzner:... no decisive success!]] A second area I would like to address is the gender medicine sector – even though I know that the word “gender” is likely to be a source of pustles in some people. It is the case in the Government Convention of Research in this area, especially with regard to the effects of drugs that have been tested mainly or entirely on men. [[Abg. Singer: Very sensitive!]] This is, I think, a very positive area of gender: I just look at how medications affect men and women. I have already referred to this issue in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, and there was also reference to cooperation with your place of business, Mr Minister. We also expect activities to take place. Mr. Federal Minister, prevention will become more and more a key to maintaining our good health care. I would simply like to ask you, in accordance with the Government Agreement, to take the appropriate measures quickly, and it is already five after twelve! Our support is yours, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22307	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22328	Mr President. High house! Dear listeners, dear listeners! We stand here and discuss a savings budget. When we discuss a savings budget, other countries in Europe have made cuts in their benefits in particular in the field of health. Otherwise the Republic of Austria, otherwise the government Faymann: There is no restriction on performance, although we have a savings budget in the health sector. The exact opposite is the case here: With this budget, we have also ensured that the benefits can be expanded. [[Abg. Petzner: There has long been a two-class medicine!]] We extend the services in the area that we ensure e-card and thus access to health insurance for all people in Austria for the first time. For the first time in this Republic, all people are entitled to health insurance! Not just that: We are expanding accident insurance for children in kindergarten, and we are extending accident insurance for people in disability facilities. I think this budget can be seen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You can discuss whether forty is more than zero. We had nothing in front of them for the year 2011 in the Cash Structure Fund, and we have now been able to ensure that 40 million € are available not only in 2011, but that 40 million € are available for four years, and therefore planned for social health insurance. In addition, social health insurance has agreed a savings potential, a cost reduction of €1.7 billion and implemented this last year. I think that this path is a good way to continue. What some Members have meant – I am thinking of Mrs Greenewald – is right, and that is what I say to Mr Rasinger: We are the world market leader! I trust to say that. However, if we are world market leaders, we need to improve every day to maintain this world market leadership. To this end, there is a need for a number of speakers to address: We need more precautions. This provision must also be provided for in the general funds. Mr Grünewald is right if he believes that in the matter of psychological care, on the question of mental diseases, health insurance is also required to provide benefits. This is an order, it remains an order, and I say that quite clearly. For children and young people in particular, we have taken the path of drawing up proposals here in the child health dialogue, and we will do so in the spring. On the topic of animal welfare one aspect: This is an important issue, and we will say that clearly. I would like to point out to Mr Vock that: Cigarettes seized are then destroyed; we do not want to do that in animals, so there is also another handling of animals that are confiscated. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address the question of hospitals. I have said quite clearly, after ensuring the financing of the local health telephone, after the extension of the possibilities in healthcare outside hospitals in the so-called established area with the medical companies, is the third field on which we need to go new ways, the field of hospitals. First of all, I imagine a common framework across Austria. Secondly, I imagine that we are pooling and targeting the funds we spend in the Federation. This is the result of a next agreement on the Article-15a Agreement: ==References== January 2014, which is to be negotiated, and I expect that the quality will be ensured that it will also be presented. We need more transparency to do this. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by thanking those people who do daily health care work. I would like to thank them for maintaining this world market leadership every day. I would like to thank all the Members who are here in the House of Doctors, and I would also like to thank the Members who represent the nurses here. [[Abg. Grosz:... who are not doctors!]] I think that good work is being done here, and this budget ensures that this is possible next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22378	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Strutz. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22400	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister, if you have been listened to by now, you have to say something: It's all right in the health field! – You only have to explain to the Austrians why a cost explosion with more than €30 billion is at hand and no stabilisation and no improvement in this area is taking place. I'm telling you why: In the field of health, everyday waste is done, and it is not countered by policy. The health system has lost billions through unnecessary investigations, inadequate agreements between doctors and poor organisation. If the great coalition were to solve these problems, it could be higher taxes, it could save itself taxes on health. I would just like to mention one area: the double investigations that the introduction of the e-card has certainly encouraged. I just call the tags medical hopping and e-card shopping. They know that we have the highest frequency of medical visits in addition to Germany in the European comparison. If we were to avoid a double examination of patients through organisational measures, we could actually reduce these health expenditure by 10 percent. I listened very attentively to Dr. Grünewald and Dr. Rasinger as an insider; they said: Let us not discuss the cost explosion, but let us have an honest debate! . I would like to ask a question here, namely the specific requirements of the Minister of Health in your statement of Government. I'm just picking two points out here. Mr Minister, you said that there must be a common strategy, planning and governance of health care in order to increase efficiency. – Perfect! You commissioned a master plan. If you look at this master plan and the analysis that your own officials have produced – I only read a quote to you: "The supply is not according to the needs, but according to the responsibilities of health care players. Treatments are sometimes not provided by the most professionally appropriate level of performance. This leads to quality losses. Patients are pushed back and forth between hospital and settled area. In doing so, treatment at a non-adequate level of supply usually means additional economic costs." It also says: “In addition, health care lacks a holistic financial planning.” – This is what the social insurance companies say, Mr Schelling says. Only to address an area in which you have given yourself the requirements – I have questioned this in the Committee –: Speaking in the Government Convention You have made progress with the ELGA project, which you have, of course, made through the creation of this society. There's a schedule in it: The implementation of the Health Portal is scheduled for the end of 2009 and will be implemented at the end of 2009. Head of Section Auer! Minister of Health! Only if you look at the homepage, then you know that beyond the planning phase, that beyond working groups, there is nothing to show beyond projects. [[Abg. Grosz: Is section head Auer...?]] Where is the patient index already promised for 2009? – You know that even the health, legal conditions have not been realized, not to speak of the portal, which according to your own requirements should be real as early as 2009. This large working group alone costs €30 million – as such I would like to titulate it – in which hundreds of employees from hospitals, from country organizations, from social insurance. I would also like to ask you, Mr Health Minister, if you would like to question the efficiency of this ELGA project. 30 million € have flown in so far, and except that we may start an attempt with e-medication in Lower Austria in April of next year, there is not much to show here. The balance sheet has given your own department, the social security funds have given in the Master Plan area. I ask you: When will you actually tackle the points you have announced in the government program itself, which you have connected with deadlines and times – at the end of 2009 – so that such an explosion, as we can take from your own budget, can be prevented in the future?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22438	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22460	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! These budget accompanying laws will bring into force measures that will have a lasting impact on the budget. We are aware that consolidation and savings are not popular in the budget. With this budget, we can refer to a very moderate savings programme in Europe, and with savings of 1.7 percent of the total budget, we are within a reasonable framework. No other country in Europe has such low savings. While measures in the health field in the European countries are being put in place which have a far more serious impact – I am thinking, for example, of Germany, where the health budget is to be reduced by €10 billion, where the health insurance funds in the administration are to save €300 million, where measures in hospitals are to be saved €500 million in the next few years, to name just a few, we are going a different way in Austria. In Austria, we have planned expenditure of € 868.2 million for health in 2011. This budget goes beyond the framework provided for by the Federal Financial Framework Act of June 2010. With the health insurance fund, €160 million will be made available and thus more health-related. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The best possible health care for all in our society and the maintenance of the best health system must continue to be our major goal. Even if we allow savings in the budget without any restrictions on health care services, it should not prevent us from addressing a health and administrative reform and to tackle it in the future. Mr Federal Minister, our support is safe for you, and we wish you all the best in this great project! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22497	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22518	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! When asked everywhere: What Brings the year 2011? – 2011 is the year of health. It must be the year of health, because, as you said, Mr Federal Minister, we are world champions in the achievements, but this should not prevent us from getting even better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will all be measured by whether we succeed in bringing something forward together, whether we share good reforms. This is particularly true of health policy. What do we want to achieve? – We want to get away from the high cost in the hospital area, with the same quality of supply. We want to put care on solid legs, the care should ideally be part of health care. The key to all this, yes, that's health care! There has already been a lot of talk about it here today. We need life-long health care, not only for the young, but also for the elderly. What does that mean? – We need more precautions in businesses, age-based jobs, special training programmes, nutrition training, as much as is foreseen in the National Food Action Plan. Mr Minister, this is very welcome. Those who stay healthy longer not only save themselves a lot of suffering, they can also stay in the job longer. What does that bring? – Another win-win situation: 1 billion less pension costs per year worked longer! If the elderly stay healthy longer, this will save the health system considerable costs. Another win-win situation: Most of these benefit the young people who, with their contributions, cover a large part of the costs. The aim is to move the need for care as long as possible or, if possible, to avoid it altogether. Health care, reha instead of nursing bed, health center instead of hospital. Prerequisite for all this is: The government budget must be put in order, rehabilitated. This will allow us to free up money for offensive measures. Especially in the health sector, it is possible to save healthy, intelligent. Let's do that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22573	The next speaker was Mr Hell. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22594	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is not an easy task to put in place sound measures to combat this negative development in the financial and economic sectors while at the same time consolidating the budget. This has already been shown in recent discussions. However, it seems essential to me that we do not discuss our successes in small terms, but discuss them offensively and positively and try to bring them closer to people in this country. I believe that all of us are committed to a strong public health system and to ensuring a high-quality medical care system for all people in Austria. What we definitely do not want is a two-class medicine in Austria! Consolidation courses in the field of health require an interplay of measures in our health system that do not endanger, but continue to safeguard them. In his area, Mr Stöger, Mr Stöger, points to the reform plans, as we have been able to learn from the discussions in the Committee, including in the field of health services financing. The important instrument for the sustainable financial security of health insurance funds will also be – this has already been done today. spoke – maintained. The health insurance fund will again be paid €40 million annually and, as the Federal Minister has mentioned, will be insured with a total of €160 million by 2014. This means that the local health telephone, which fulfils its agreed cost reduction objectives, also receives money from that fund. The fund has existed since 2010 and is also intended to serve as a compensation for non-insurance benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We support the pooling of financial flows in the health sector, the harmonisation of the health care system legislation and the transparency of the care system. The important thing in life is health. In order to maintain our health system, we can offer essential safeguards here for the future. Mr Federal Minister, thank you for your efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22642	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22664	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I start with a sentence that our health spokesman Erwin Rasinger has positioned: Health reform is a daily effort. - Yes, it must be. Since the Federal Minister has said that the budget has remained the same, and a multiannual consolidation programme has also been drawn up, I would just like to make a request from the countries, in particular the Styria region: There should also be uniform, clearer financing structures. I think that's urgently necessary. I would like to address two target groups, which need to be closely looked at in the future, or where necessary steps need to be taken. The first target group is the children. It has been addressed several times today. There are, of course, priorities in the fields of nutrition and exercise, i.e. prevention, but also especially in the field of the care of children, for example with their own child-psychiatry. Mr Federal Minister, we have also discussed this in the Committee, but I would like to encourage you to reach a solution during the next negotiations on the Article-15a agreement on the retention of hospital stays with the countries. I think this is urgently necessary to relieve parents. The second target group is women, which has also been mentioned briefly. Women's health really needs new approaches. You say you're thinking about it or working with a group. But it is also a matter of prevention, medication and therapy, in order to take account of this diversity of genders also in the medical field. This requires research on new diseases, new preparations and a comprehensive development of gender-sensitive medical treatments, the so-called gender medicine. I think that this is not some spinning – I would only put it very carefully now – but that it is an urgently necessary work that we have to push forward here, because it would ultimately lead to savings in the implementation of this gender medicine. In this sense, I believe that we are on a successful, good path in the field of health. I also thank all those who work in care and health care. I couldn't do that personally. Therefore: Respect these people!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22712	The next speaker is Mr Preiner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22733	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The budgeting of the Ministry of Health clearly states that there are no reductions in health performance in 2011 – at a financially difficult time, as has been mentioned several times today. I can also mention that we are in the top position with our health care in the international ranking and there is absolutely no reason for us to speak badly of our health system or to regret it. In fact, we are also the consumer protection summit. There will also be €1.6 million available in the coming year – for various consumer consultation measures, such as in the fight against unwanted advertising calls. There has already been a lot of moving here. An amendment to the Telecommunications Act will bring a ban on suppression and forgery of the telephone number display. The Scalping phenomenon is also increasing. In doing so, fencing investment information is used to try to animated the consumers via the Internet and the telephone for the purchase of truly worthless shares. Therefore, additional measures will have to be taken in the area of financial services so that the Internet does not fall into the trap, especially for young people. – By the way, some are just sitting in the gallery, which I would like to welcome warmly. I would now like to address the field of food labelling. Negotiations on the EU proposal for information on food at EU level are just ahead of political agreement. Important for consumers will be the type of label, and the national legislator will also use existing scope for marking unpacked products accordingly. While the labelling of the product components is now a matter of course, consumers today want to know more about their product: for example, where it comes from or how it is produced. The word “fair trade” is no longer empty at Weitem. Today, buying is very often whether a product is produced free of genetic engineering or whether nanotechnology is used accordingly. This is increasingly used in the food sector and in packaging. However, the knowledge of the consumers about the risks is still very low. In addition to forcing research into the effects of various materials on the human organism, a comprehensive labelling of the application of this technology in food and packaging is therefore essential. I believe that in the coming year we will continue to be able to maintain this high international standard, beyond 2011, with our health system, including the budget that we are planning for it very well, and I am confident that we will continue to be able to meet this high international standard. – Thank you very much, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22791	The next speaker was Mr Lipitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! We have the best health system in the world, but there is a need for conversion. Our Minister of Health Alois Stöger has begun this conversion over the last two years, and he is constantly pursuing it with competence, attention and persistence, for the worst in health care is when people are insecured. [[Abg. Grosz: We have a bad health minister, a bacterium minister!]] And there it turns out that this cash fund was set up by the Federal Minister for the next four years in order to create security in order to make plans to give people safety. If you look at the fact that health care is divided into many, many areas, that funding is distributed to the municipalities, the countries, the federal government, but also to other competences, you know which spagat the the health ministry needs to do. I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry very much for the fact that, despite cuts in the budget, there has been no restrictions on performance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, health also means several areas, which my previous speakers have already mentioned. Health is consumer protection. Right now, before Christmas, we are discussing children's toys that are dangerous to children. This also belongs in the field of health. In the field of nutrition, food labelling is very important for health. Working conditions: I heard somewhere yesterday, you should get rid of the labour inspector. – I think this is an important position we need to create working conditions for people. However, income and the safe workplace also contribute to people's health. However, health is also dependent on medical care that needs to work, as there is always a need for man, in the ambulance and hospital sector. I believe that our Federal Minister is well on the move to bring about structural reforms in the next few years, so that this health system remains in this form as it has been before. I would like to say briefly, Mr Strutz: Health reform should not take place as in a hospital in Carinthia, where you can get an extra manager from Germany. I would say that is unorientated, because I do not want to call it incapable. Political power games cause patients to be afraid to go to this hospital. An administrative reform should not be that we need to introduce an expert council between a board of directors of a hospital and a management board – I say now – in order to advise these people as well. I think then at least two are too much. But there is, as has been said, positive and negative. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Who's Carinthia's Health Officer? – The Emperor of the SPÖ!]] – Your party has passed a law, Mr. Strutz, which is that a health referent has no longer any possibility. You know that very well and will also have to bear the consequences of it! To provide safety is one of the most important things in the field of health. In just a few days, we'll have our hands on each other again and say: A healthy new year! I think it will be a healthy new year with the patron over the best health care in Europe. – Thank you, Minister of State! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22874	Mr Spindelberger came to speak as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e22895	Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should not forget during the whole debate on the budget for these three days which has led to these budget approaches. It must already be said that the Federal Government had to lead Austria through a financial and economic crisis that brought the whole world into a state of sluggish; I claim that it has managed this federal government best to maneuver Austria through these stormy times. It does not come about that we have recorded an unemployment rate of only 4.5 percent in Austria and are therefore European champions. In this context, I would like to take a brief look at Mr Fürntrath-Moretti's speech yesterday. She said that the whole misconception of the budget deficit had actually begun with a sage of Kreisky at the time: "I'm preparing a few million more debts for less sleepless nights than a few hundred thousand more unemployed." So it's clear to everyone here: I'm still getting used to it today. Then: If we had not taken a lot of money into our hands in this field together last year, then we might have to record the same high unemployment rates as in the times when BZÖ/FPÖ were in the Federal Government when one – in a high economy! - 305,000 unemployed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Traumatic time? Then you have to go to therapy, psychotherapy!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You put down the Styrian County Hospital!]] If today a well-known cracker of the BZÖ has spoken of the most cruel savings package in the Second Republic, I can remind you that there has been the most massive savings package in the time of FPÖ/BZÖ's government participation, which has caused the disease to become extremely expensive. Just think about the increase in hospital costs – by 43 percent you raised it! Increase in the health insurance contribution for pensioners, for employees, reductions in sickness benefit for the severely ill from 78 to 52 weeks! This is your social attitude! [[Abg. Grosz: You're a pleitier, a concurrency!]] And if Mr Grosz repeatedly speaks of administrative costs, which he has no idea of, then I would just like to say: The administrative costs at the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse are below 2.5 percent! And there are a few politicians, like the colleague Strutz, who says: The budget has exploded in the health sector. – It is therefore exploded because the health insurance companies – even if they were to address this openly – have been forced to the Aug’, which has caused additional costs of millions of euros, and they would almost have driven them to ruin. [[New calls from the Abg. Grosz.]] Therefore, instead of turning the local health telephone into bitters in the future, it would be urgent to provide them with a sustainable funding basis by paying off non-insurance benefits. Mr Minister, for me too, the current administrative cost cover is so, in this form simply not acceptable. I think it is stupid to subsume all the administrative staff under it. In my opinion, all the contribution auditors have been taken out, because they are just the contribution auditors who get the money from the establishments. It is not to be justified by me if with the date of the year 31. In December 2009, entrepreneurs will have an external position of € 1 billion in the area's health phone. [[Abg. Grosz: You're a concurrency! You speculated with money from others!]] There we have to look, that can't be it. That is why I cannot always go here in a polemic way like the “clean obzwickte” in the first row and make social security responsible for everything. [[Call the BZÖ: Order call!]] For me, the budget is certainly not a wishful package, I say, but a step to be taken – albeit with abdominal pain.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23037	Mr Erwin Spindelberger! I give you a call for an order whether the statement in the direction of a fellow Member is that he is a “Klaner Obzwickter”. [[OBJECTIVES]] As regards division 24, health, I am now no longer able to speak. This will also be done with this subject area. [[14:38:12]] Heading 3 (Education, research, art and culture) [[14:38:15]] UG 30: Education, art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23082	For advice, heading 3: Education, research, art and culture. First of all, we are entering into the negotiation of subheading 30: Education, art and culture. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23110	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Aubauer said that 2011 is to be the year of health. I think it would be appropriate, on current occasion, to proclaim 2011 as the “Year of Education”. I believe that a good year of education is also starting with the fact that the Federal Minister of Education was ready and is ready to convene a round table of all educational speakers in mid-January. I think that's a good thing. It has thus met a liberal demand. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] We are observing that the debate on education is superimposed, to which there is no agreement in principle; however, no reform is being made that is necessary and that there can be agreement. This is the only reason this little keyword is PISA. But what does PISA mean? PISA measures only a small sector of learning. PISA measures nothing else, some say, as the skill to complete the test, while areas such as foreign languages, literature, religion, ethics, history, music, visual art, sports are hidden! Therefore, PISA cannot serve as a substitute for education. It's a pure pulse measurement, a certain snapshot. And now the bad result is being used to bring some sort of more to the public. Since there is a standstill in the great coalition, the SPÖ even has to resort to a popular desire that she has here in the drawer and that she wants to somehow enforce as a gallion figure with her Ural politician Hannes Androsch, so that we will not move anywhere from the outside in any form. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Now the right person is talking about something old!]] In any case, the total school of the 10- to 14-year-olds, that is to be the programme, that is to be what is to be enforced here. For this purpose, a liberal position: We support any improvement in primary school as a regular school in the whole rural area, even if it is called middle school in the future, especially in the rural area, with the possibility of permeability up to Matura and up to study, but not under the responsibility of the long-term gymnasium. It must remain both, a transparent, a structured school system, with the chance for all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: We need an elite!]] About the entire school, Konrad Paul Liessmann says: “A common school with de-motivated teachers will be a disastrously bad school.” Or another quote by Bernhard Seier: Introducing an overall school would lead to anyone who can afford it financially sending his children to a private school. That's what we want to prevent. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Are you in favour of social compensation?]] [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Are you for social justice?]] We also want to have the possibility that parents can choose an education system without having a thick wallet. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Then why are you against it?]] But you do not want to do that, because if you keep thinking about it logically, you have to cancel all the religious or other private schools in this age area at the same time, if you want to introduce this school as a whole. And I'd like to look at that too. If in a country the general school is publicly and generally introduced, as in France, in England, in the United States, where to go then... [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Finland!]] We're still coming to Finland, Mr Matznetter. Don't be so impatient! I'm going to deal with it. But it is precisely where social injustice goes. There you go to the Catholic Lycée, to the British boarding school or to the expensive private school in the U.S. so that the children get a different education there. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But not to the harm of the children!]] So what is to the harm of children, I am not quite sure in your nature of education policy whether this is not exactly the main point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that, interestingly, exactly those who reject the organized school system most then even send their children themselves to private schools. Ask your old chancellor Gusenbauer where he's sending his kids, or ask the wife Stoisits, the wife of the attorney, where she sends her children. It's all the expensive private schools. That's what it really looks like! We don't want to. We want a child from a working district or from a farmer's family to experience a good and just educational opportunity and not ultimately to decide on the wallet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I could now bring you a lot of quotes from scientists, I have a whole folder of them. I'll tell you one thing: Righteous school is a school of achievement, and that is the decisive. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Who says something about it?]] It must not be discriminated against, such as by liberalising or abolishing the notation, by a lack of knowledge, by neglecting solid language skills – that is, in Austria, the German language – or by relinquishing external learning or, for example, head counting. [[Abg. May. Johann Auer: Who says that?]] Education needs content and not just the method in the foreground. We need a professionally founded school education and not a skills acquisition. I am not opposed to cross-border or networked learning, but to be able to network something you also need content. The networking of zero sums does not work at all. Therefore, the content is also important. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Oh you! Oh, you!]] At the end of my brief remarks: If you don't know anything, you have to believe everything. We want a powerful citizen, not taken from the hands of responsible parents by any left-wing education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23329	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23350	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Yeah, I've needed a long time. I actually thought it was just a few genuinely remaining Christian and, in part, other trade unionists in the field of the AHS, who still hang in the past as the colleague Rosenkranz. I haven't heard anything that's eternal, as I've been suggested here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Go, go, go!]] I regret that I have thought you so far an intelligent person who can at least represent what he says here. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: All other European countries can live very well with it!]] You've promised me for two years, so you're finally coming up with studies that can prove it. You don't have them, of course. But it just hurts so much, it hurts so much what you bring! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz goes to the speaker's desk with a thick folder!]] Yeah, come on, come on! A little faster, you steal the time. Give it to me! Yes, put it here! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (the speaker holding the open folder) You can read that!]] Put it here! I'd like to take it with me. Leave it there! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I copy it!]] [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] So that's embarrassing. Here he comes with a Bene folder with a few newspaper copies! So please, don't be angry with me, Mr Rosary, so you can't do education policy! It hurts so much what you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is only embarrassing, and it is not worthy of an educational speaker of a relatively large parliamentary group. That which you have set forth is only embarrassing, is eternal, and is God's resurrection. That's just embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Say something about it!]] Second: They require a year of education work. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You are not about education!]] Since Claudia Schmied is here, she has done nothing but reform, partly also against massive resistance, on her feet. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why do you know that? Are you doing brain research?]] It is further on, step by step, starting with the smaller class students, to smaller groups, to the new Matura, to education standards. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Wonderful!]] The list is infinitely long. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: He knows!]] They know this and speak against better knowledge of such a sense of stupidity. I have to tell you that. That is something that hurts, and to hear it in an Austrian Parliament is so embarrassing! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Let your speech bubbles, Mr. Oberlehrer! They want to take away education policy from teachers!]] But I really want to come to the content. Mr. Kopf – now he's going to be sorry; that hurts me a little, because I can't deal with you here, I've seen it now – my appeal is going there – I don't have to address the Greens either, but it's actually the ÖVP in this house –: I know we can't do a modern education policy, we can't take a decisive step if you don't finally say yes if you don't finally go away from this really disgusting drawer policy we've been running for years. We give children – and this has just been confirmed by our colleague Rosenkranz – as far back as possible at the age of eight, nine years in the drawer of special school, primary school, New Middle School, AHS, and they should stay in it as far as possible without taking advantage of the opportunities for the future. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know. Talk to your teachers who work in compulsory schools, talk to the parents, talk to the business rooms, talk to the industrial associations, talk to the Catholic Church, talk to whom you want to find out: Yes, we need a common school where we can actually implement the new insights, how to teach, by looking at how to optimally promote talented people and at the same time involve them in social structures that we need for the future – keyword: Social competence. If we do not create this step in the coming year, then any educational reform is condemned to failure. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: But go!]] We must create this step together, otherwise we will rightly say that this great coalition has failed in education policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not just there!]] And we don't want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23580	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23601	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr. Elmar Mayer, I can understand your despair. It's really hard. I can well understand that there are doubts about this EIA on educational issues. In that case, I do. I started my speech yesterday with a positive message. I would like to start with a positive one today. [[Abg. Amon: A good purpose!]] I didn't succeed in that case now. Mr Rosenkranz, it concerns FPÖ. There are also reasonable forces in the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Yes, it is!]] [[Abg. Vock: Good! That's good!]] This is the good news of the day. I should like to quote the speakers and spokesperson of the FPÖ in Vorarlberger Landtag, who vehemently calls for the joint school of the 10- to 14-year-olds. Bravo! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Keep going! Maybe it's a little bit around. The Carinthians FPK obviously don't have the right grip either, because the Carinthian FPK – it may be a little contaminated by the BZÖ, I don't know – is for the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds. So read a little bit of what is said in your party. You can still learn a lot. However, this federal government also needs to learn a lot in several respects, but also here a positive message: After 15 years, this government – well, in the meantime the governments have changed a little, after 15 years one has noticed that, for example, the school book action is an economic nonsense that one has used more money for the administration than finally has come in with the self-holding of the students or actually the parents. After 15 years you have a look at it and give it up. Bravo! In the meantime, however, the population has lost 150 million €. Meaningless money destruction! And I can offer you several such senseless money destruction actions. This, of course, concerns the details of the teaching. I would remind you that the repetition of classes is a pedagogical nonsense and is also an economic nonsense. No pedagogy can explain why a student or a student who has a lack of content in one subject must repeat all the other subjects as well. This costs the budget € 280 million, which in addition costs the parents for supplementary hours and so on to € 500 million. That's the workers' chamber. We can save ourselves that. We would have had delicate plants of reform in the budgets of the past few years. For example, we have budget posts for the modular upper level, so that students then only have to repeat the subject in which they are actually negative. This is the core of the modular upper level. And where do we cut this budget now? – Right here in this area! 1 million, 2 million, 3 million euros in the next few years. There are no large amounts, but unfortunately keep the absolutely wrong path. Scandalous, I must say, is that, as you describe it, redimensional investment. That means simply and simply, you don't implement the Federal Disability Equality Act, you don't implement international regulations, you save here on those who need it most that don't have lobby. This area of saving, ladies and gentlemen, is also not understandable for us. Again to the Pisa keyword. I spoke about Poland briefly yesterday, and we look at Germany. Germany has been catching up massively in recent years. Germany has learned from the shock – in Germany it was especially the year 2003, which triggered a corresponding shock wave – has invested massively. It was 4 billion in the field of day-to-day offers. There are the 80 million, even if you take 10 times, a comparatively small amount. Today, in Germany, we have 20 percent of pupils who are inside here Today, however, the Germans can also reap the fruits of their reforms in other ways, if I recall, for example, that in many federal states the three-member system has been reduced to a two-member and in the most successful federal states of Saxony, Thuringia – – unfortunately not in Bavaria, I just said – precisely in these two federal states, the introduction of the common school that is really discussed and thought of up to fourteen years of age. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg!]] The Germans are on a good path, the Germans have developed significantly in recent years. Unfortunately, we are still too modest in our plans – by no means in what we have implemented. And what are we doing? . I have already quoted Mr Finanzminister yesterday, I would like to make a quote from him today. Yesterday it was one where he called on the school teachers, where he blamed them for Pisa, but in a pedagogical ringum strike he also thought of the primary school teachers. I quote here what the speaker of the Minister of Finance has us to say: “There is a need to praise the school as a general remedy in which good and bad teachers, good and bad students are mixed.” Ladies and gentlemen, what are good and bad teachers according to this logic? – The good are in the AHS, and the bad are in the primary school? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No, nobody said that!]] If anyone can tell me another interpretation of this sentence, I'll put off a prize. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: It is socially not fair!]] You can't! And this is an insolence to those teachers who leave you alone in school, who give you no opportunity to realize what educators want to realize: a socially just school, a school in which all children have the same opportunities and in which there are no privileged ones. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: When did you last talk to gymnasal directors?]] State Councillor Stemer has clearly stated in Vorarlberg what he wants: 20 percent in AHS, 80 percent in primary school. This is ODP policy pure! They are the Party of Privileged. We see this in the tax system, we see it in all other areas and now we are also in the school sector. In the tow you have the liberals. I've been with Alexander before. Van der Bellen discusses who is more infected by the Freeman the ÖVP or vice versa. The fact is that you are obviously remembering a rather small-coalition coalition here; in the education field you are already very, very far. In this regard, we will resist vigorously, in the interests of the pupils of this country, [[Vivid cheerfulness of the Abg. Rosary]] They cannot implement these plans and at last we are taking the decisive steps in the Austrian school system, steps that parents are massively calling for, which the teachers have to come in the coming years. But we have to start right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23750	I would remind you that both the previous speakers of the Green Group and the speakers of the FPÖ Group did not submit the motions for resolutions they intended to make. The next speaker was Mr Amon. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23777	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a certain understanding, especially just before Christmas, when the late eighties of a single pot school are speaking here in the nostalgia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Those who want this may remain arrested in this nostalgic image and may oppose the reforms. All those who recognize themselves a little in education policy, all OECD experts, all Pisa experts, will tell you and confirm that the question of the organizational form of the school is not the relevant, which is actually the question of content. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words because I believe that the results of the last Pisa study have also caused a great deal of concern in Austria. I don't think you should be so nonchalant about it, and I think that everything that is written here is already sakrosanct. It is already remarkable that, when such a study is presented, the OECD has previously informed us that the data which will be published will only be published on a large scale. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Then read something about PISA 2003 or 2006! That's efficient enough!]] You know in what kind of heated mood these tests have taken place, you know that there have been boycott calls of the student representation, that there have been intense conflicts between the Ministry of Education and the Teacherry at that time, and that the validity of these tests must therefore be called into question. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: This is also a possibility: eyes to and through!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if we take the tests seriously and if we also assume it would fit everything, then I would like to ask one question to those who are so PISA-believers. It is precisely those who usually take action against punctual testing. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is those who are against any form of admission test because they say that there is only the day-to-day constitution of a child and there is no way to draw up a prognosis based on a one-day test. Yeah, what's PISA? PISA is nothing but a testing on one day, one age group in three subjects. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And what do you derive from that? - A system discussion. And this is completely missing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Of course, you have to take this seriously. The last studies already send us the message that – and these are the details of these results, Mr. Matznetter – a quarter of the fifteen-year-olds apparently – and I do not now argue whether that is 22, 25, 27 percent – can not read meaningfully. Tragic enough! It is the question of where the cause lies. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Hanebüchen! Bullshit!]] I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, that we also have some very interesting approaches in the Government Convention, which we need to implement, such as the issue of language recognition. We've got the school registration for the 5th. First year of life to look at: Can the child speak the teaching language? Whether the child is able to follow the instruction [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: After the PISA test!]] But the question is: How standardised is this review of teaching language skills? Is that just a question about the name, or is there a procedure here, a standardised procedure to determine that? What is the consequence if a child does not control the teaching language? [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Walser and Dr. Matznetter.]] Do we then go towards a compulsory preschool to teach a child the language of teaching, or do we hope that this will be implemented in the kindergarten? The idea of developing a kindergarten plan is undoubtedly a right approach. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have a common school in Austria, the folk school, the common school of the six to ten years old, that is in itself indiscriminate. And we have some dramatic problems at the end of this school: The children do not master the cultural techniques: not read, not write, not calculate. That's what PISA expresses to us. So it is obviously not the form of organization the problem, but the question of content. Let us focus again on the essential things and not on the entire lyrics that are built around them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Wake up! 15 years...!]] Overall, ladies and gentlemen – and we are debating the budget, I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Education on this budget – it is a very decent budget, which is a forward-looking one. [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] However, the fact that it is also in the science sector that we invest €80 million in our young people in both sectors is also to be thanked to the Minister of Finance. He is represented today by the Secretary of State. I think these are important and right signals that show that education, science and research are quite, very important concerns, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we need to further develop the school towards greater autonomy for the individual. If you look at countries that are doing well in the PISA study, the schoolbook may be a bad example, Mr Walser, because in Finland the regional schoolboards decide on the question of schoolbooks. In a rich community there is a free schoolbook, and if it is a poorer community, parents have to buy the school book. We do not want such a model, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, and this also implies that we cannot support a system that has grown historically in another country, one over and above our system. You need to further develop your own system. School autonomy means more responsibility at school, means middle management in school, which means assigning to the teacher and, in particular, to the director more skills in personnel matters – on the question of the maximum number of school students, on the question of divisional numbers. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: There's no one against it!]] This is the future programme. And we, Mrs. Federal Minister, are also in agreement: These are points in the government programme and those of implementation. I think we should end this sad discussion about the form of organization that we want to see here at the end of the year, and we should finally come to the offensive in the field of education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23961	Mrs Haubner has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e23990	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can support what Mr Amon said: We must finally get into the offensive as far as education and education policy is concerned. It is only if I listen to this debate now that I feel that the debt debate is still a very ideological one and some have actually stood still and look towards the past rather than the future. [[Abg. Amon: 68!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 2068!]] I'm not an eighty-eight, no, I'm not, but I'm looking to the future as far as the school is concerned. School needs to be further developed and cannot be based on an area, namely the common school of the Sixteen years. It is an important part of it, but that alone is not the school reform. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, school has to be a modern pedagogical service provider today, has to have a service offer, and especially the changed family world, but also the changed working world into which our youth grows. Young people not only need to have the right to education, they must also have the opportunity to learn successfully in a school – and successfully learning is something different for everyone. The one who is more encouraged, who has strengths, but also very many weaknesses, will learn differently from the one who is highly motivated, highly talented. And that, I believe, is the two main objectives that we must have in mind in the field of education and education policy. This budget, Mrs Bundesminister, is the only one without massive cuts. You even have a plus of 6.1 percent. The measures started in recent years, such as the reduction of the maximum number of students, the teaching of Matura, the New Secondary School, but also the repetition of educational connections, can be continued. They refer to this as offensive measures in a broadcast. Whether this offensive can be continued, I still doubt this budget, because, among other things, school grants are also reduced. It's very family hostile to me. However, there is again relatively much money for new institutions, such as BIFIE. 5.5 million will be brought in. Therefore, in this area we do not only have to deal with the PISA result, because PISA may open our eyes again or show us that we are simply waiting too long for a reform in the school system. I believe that at this time we should not use our power and energy to make debt allocations, who is responsible for PISA and who is not. There are many reasons. We must also not neglect that there are also reasons in the family why children can read so little or so badly today. So I don't think I'm going to take credit. I don't think I'm from the political hack, either, because I think we all have to finally succeed in becoming a party-political-free zone. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am not saying a policy-free, but a party-political zone in which a lot of things have to change, much more needs to develop and can stand in the good – but not in such a way as to insist on a wide range of things. For us from the BZÖ, it is very important that reforms are introduced. Mrs. Minister, you have already announced reforms yourself – or you are constantly announcing them. You know for yourself that we have one of the most expensive school systems, but also a school system with mediocre results. The figures are mentioned again and again: We have 15 percent of students who do not have compulsory schooling – that's scary. We have about a quarter of the students who can't read meaningfully – that's just as scary. I also believe that the financial resources are not properly weighted. When I look at the budget: There are €76 million for the school supervisors, staff costs for the school supervisors, and €27 million for the New Middle School – where there is now a discussion about the 10-percent clause against which we have always been. So for direct education there is relatively little, but for the maintenance of a system of school supervisors a triple. That, I think, is simply not portable in the future. We from BZÖ know that a lot of things have to change. As the opposition party, which is thinking about the future, we have drawn up a concept of education, where there are six very essential points: On the one hand, the school administration is reformed and depoliticized. Multi-tracks are eliminated, national school councils in the form and district school councils are abolished. New forms of education can be considered. Secondly, school autonomy needs to be strengthened. In schools, it is important that they, as autonomous institutions, have the authority of personnel, that they can decide for themselves and that administrative and educational work is also separate. Thirdly, we urgently need a new teacher's right to service and pay. This is supposed to be worked on – I just hope that you will not fail again in the resistance of the black union, Mrs. Federal Minister. The fourth point is integration, a very important part of a functioning school, integration with corresponding language support already in the preschool age. School day care is extended, but school day care must be a voluntary offer, because ultimately parents must and should decide what they want. Of course, there must also be the common school, which can be defined as part of the offer in a modern school system. I personally believe that the experience so far has also shown that the common school is not a non-profit school, because when new teaching methods are used, children are not separated into groups, in low-performance and particularly talented children, but are promoted and demanded. That, I believe, is also the meaning and purpose of a functioning school system. I should therefore like to make a request, in which we want to make it clear that we are interested in an alliance for education, where we are all invited to work across the party borders, here in this Parliament on a common path, on an alliance for education, under the title “With ideological scams, here with real reforms!” [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this invitation to accept this offer, because it is ultimately about our children and not about the interests of power, and as President of the Court of Auditors Moser once said in this context: If we don't do anything in school, then the past will eat up the future! - I'm sure we don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24073	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24272	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24294	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the field of education – and I would like to comment on this now – I would like to refer to art and culture after the cultural speakers – €7.3 billion is estimated in the budget for 2011 and, subject to flexible reserve management – that reserves can also be used to cover expenditure – will continue all major educational projects; Mrs Haubner has already mentioned her. By the way, the smaller classes are the most complex project we have been implementing since 2007. In addition to the financial compensation, under this title € 280 million annually go to the federal states to finance additional compulsory school teachers. Language funding is now legally established in compulsory schooling for two years, also in the area of the AHS sub-level. In their effect, as I believe, the education standards and the new matura are still underestimating. For the first time, the education standards are in use throughout Austria in 2012, the new Matura for the first time in 2014. We were able to realize the New Secondary School at 320 locations now, and – I would like to mention this project in particular – we are already taking part in the project Teaching and Matura, which is already 7 400 young people. We must, I am deeply convinced, continue the reform measures, and not only should PISA be the occasion – that needs to be done, in my understanding and in all the positions to be overcome here again and again, the joint effort and this also needs cooperation beyond the party borders on important issues. I therefore very much welcome your suggestion, Mr Dr. Rosenkranz, and have allowed me to invite January to a round table to discuss the 2011 annual programme. I think there are many projects in this, beyond ideological overloads, which we can solve step by step, as before. [[Demonstrative applause with the FPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] From my point of view, these are mainly the following projects: The first point, Mr Amon, has already referred to this, is more quality in schools, but also more responsibility at the school location. Personally, I prefer to use the term “responsibility” instead of “autonomy” because it is also about clear performance responsibility. For me, this includes a clear profile of the school management, a strengthening of the school partnership at the school location and the school supervision already mentioned by Mrs Haubner, which we must further develop towards quality management. If we put school supervision in relation to the personnel employed, then this relationship does not frighten me, quite the contrary, we only have to use school supervision throughout Austria according to uniform standards. School supervision is federal competence, and it must also be lived as a federal competence. For this purpose, legislative proposals are under review. We will talk about these new laws in detail, including the government partner, but I am also following a clear suggestion from the Court of Auditors in order to improve quality management in our schools in particular. It will also be worked on a high-level course system – not to be confused with the modular upper level. The aim should be to keep sitting with targeted performance promotion. The second point I would like to talk to you about in January is the education of educators - new and a new right of service and remuneration. We need to deal with these two issues simultaneously with the absolute courage to resolve, because they are interfering – teacher education and right of service and remuneration. Some key points are clear, but that also needs to be deepened. In 2010, intensive preparations were made with the representatives of the Teacher Union. We should reach the mode of negotiation in January in order to reach conclusions during this legislative period. The third point is the promotion of the culture of conversation and the possibility of personal responsibility at school locations. Responsibility can only be taken over if decision-making facilities are given. That is to say, it will also be a matter of considering together how resources are allocated to the sites so that they can be worked flexibly there from the educational point of view. Appreciative culture of conversation is particularly important to me in this context. I would like to stress what you, Mrs Haubner, have said: Let's stop assigning debt! Let's forget the drama triangle – who's to blame? –: Victims, Saviour, Victims – Parents, Students, Teachers! We work together on performance and success! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] The fourth point, which is important to me, is the expansion of school courses all day long. Budgetary resources are also foreseen for this purpose. Unfortunately, we did not continue in the field of administrative reform. I almost have to say now that the status quo could be maintained in the division of competence. But we have a variety of responsibilities in the field of compulsory education. Therefore, it will be necessary to re-establish Article-15a agreements when extending the entire day's school offerings. I can only conclude Article 15a agreements with the federal states by law. In other words, we must also provide for measures to ensure that students actually receive the funds and that the school locations are actually expanded and improved accordingly. The aim is, as has been said, to increase the offer currently to 50 percent of compulsory schooling sites. The fifth point is the area of German funding, where we certainly need to think intensively about the mandatory element, as we use the funds in such a way that success is possible, especially in the field of folk education. Now, on specific points which we have also discussed in the Committee on Budgets, but which have now also come to the fore and which I would like to say a few words about. Mr Walser, the subject of consolidation: In 2011, the need for consolidation or – let us say it better – the need for consolidation in my budget is € 112 million. 55 percent of these can be presented by the projected drop in pupils, so there is no need for savings. About 20 percent refer to modified implementation plans for investments that you have also addressed. It is important for me to point out that, although it is a small amount, we are still investing in the framework of the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities. We planned € 21 million for 2011. A second point is important to me: Schools free of charge. The schools in free movement are innovative areas, are innovative institutions in our school system. They also participate, for example, in the project of education standards. We were able to keep the budget unchanged with € 4.5 million in this area. I am very aware, however, that since the circle of recipients, i.e. the bearers' associations, is extended, we have to examine very carefully so that it does not get too big cuts at the existing bearers' associations. On the subject of BIFIE – Mrs Haubner has referred to it: The BIFIE is budgeted at €15.1 million and deals mainly with the topics of education standards and new matura. However, international tests will also be carried out in 2011, PIRLS and TIMSS in the public school sector, where we will also have the results in 2012. On the subject of special education and integration, Mrs Mag. Jarmer also considered a conversation valuable in order to deepen this area. I have allowed myself to agree an appointment for this point. From my point of view, the key to the future are the major projects, which also have a systemic effect. This is the whole area more responsible at the school location, and it is primarily educational education-new and new service and salary law. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since I am sometimes attacked by one party or another secretariat, I would like to end by giving a brief interim report on the implementation of the government programme. Of the 46 individual projects included in the government programme, 20 are completed after two years, 8 are partially completed, 15 are in preparation, and 3 projects are currently under budget reserve due to consolidation requirements. As far as an overview of the projects is concerned, an outlook for 2011. From this point of view, I would like to thank the Committee on Education for its always constructive cooperation. I also very much welcome the establishment of the Subcommittee on Education. And I look forward to the Round Table as a start for intensive cooperation in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24413	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24434	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! That the budget of the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture will be increased by €80 million annually by 2014 is of course very encouraging, but I think that is also necessary, because investments in our children, investments in our youth are very well-established investments in our future. From the annual investment of €280 million, which our Mrs. Federal Minister has just mentioned, millions of those who are used to reduce the maximum number of school students benefit from 725 000 pupils throughout Austria. Due to smaller classes, 6 000 teacher posts could also be created, which is also very pleasing. As a teacher, I myself have been able to teach in smaller classes, and I really can only confirm that the increase in the quality of the class is almost proportional to the reduction of the maximum number of students. The advantage is of course that I can promote all students individually. The advantage is, of course, that in smaller groups I can identify and solve stress factors, exam fears, nervousness, but also family problems faster. In my opinion, it is therefore very important for these measures to continue, of course, with these reforms. For me, it is also very important and it has the highest priority that in the model experiment New secondary school comes to the disappearance of the 10-percent clause. I now very much appeal to the ÖVP, I very much appeal to you, Mr Amon, that you will have a rethinking so that all students will have the opportunity to be trained in a modern education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24474	Mrs Mag. Inlander is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24495	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! First of all, I would like to say something about the statements made by the two colleagues who left out on Walter Rosenkranz in a true Suada. That was unworthy, that was aggressive, that was not to be accepted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd say, Shame! You have somehow been suspected of being a little frustrated, Mr Elmar Mayer, because you have not even dared to participate in the Pisa test. That's why you can be a little ashamed, and the others have at least dared. But now on cultural policy. You can probably still remember the speeches of chancellors and vice chancellors: not a single word about culture. This is a shame for a country like Austria. It is very important, as I say, that you have something to say about it as Chancellor and as Vice-Cancellor. It seems that for the two cultures only one ornament, an ornament, negligible, is not worth mentioning. If you listen a little bit, you realize that it is really so that we liberals are really the only ones here in the house, for culture is the foundation of society, the foundation on which it builds and on which it stands. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: This is terrifying!]] Why is that terrifying? That is the way it is, and it is good, because if it were not, then you would not pay attention to culture. It is quite clear that this is the foundation on which society stands. We are also the only ones who want to pay attention to our cultural heritage, to our values, traditions, ideas, customs, customs, language, religion and to the next generations. That is not so important to you either. I can remember that Mrs Muttonen has always spoken out against it, she has always said that it has turned backwards. – Mrs Colleague, this has not turned backwards – I have read it – but it is our duty to preserve and develop our cultural wealth, which has grown for centuries. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Yeah, I'm reading the speeches of my colleagues. There are no cuts in the budget of the cultural sector, and that is good and right, but within the resort there is a completely wrong weighting. Mrs Minister, we have often talked about this, but I think you should really take care of the large construction sites museums. You know, we have a very acute museum crisis, and it's like we always hear from time to time in the committees and even here that we evaluate. I think you really have to start the thing now. For years, we have not known how the future of Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum looks. It would be important for the two museums to regain the status of two independent federal museums. You've had it before. Please attack this once! The MAK, for example, one of your favorite museums, gets €9.6 million, which is really well promoted. But if you look at the number of visitors – the MAK has the lowest number of visitors, you need to know – then you can see that a card with 52 € is supported. I mean, that's a terrible thing, because on the other hand, the Volkskundemuseum gets, you all probably know, just a fraction of it, 400 000 €. This is already seen by the value, the lack of appreciation of our own identity. This is actually a serious mistake in Austrian cultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A false subsidy policy also causes the abstract flowers to drift. I'm sure you've all read this. Mr Kulturstadtrat Mailath-Pokorny explains that Migrant Mainstreaming – so he no longer speaks German at all – is the focus of his Vienna cultural policy. I mean, that's what you have to imagine. But if you look at what is contained in our art and culture report, we also find that a lot of money is spent on multicultural topics, and it is possible to build a parallel society because of the funding. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, a third of the associations that are promoted at the federal level have such sounding names as MOTIF – Intercultural Cultural Association Bregenz, Escape and Asylum or Chiala’Afriqas Festival, a third of these associations are very generously subsidized, while for the large cultural institutions there is not enough money. The maintenance of the level of basic subsidies for the large cultural institutions such as the Bundestheater and the Bundesmuseen seems to be pleasing, but it is not mentioned that this also means that the constant increases in salaries of the employees and the officials must be suspended. In the Federal Theatres, the maintenance costs of the buildings must also be covered by the operating budget. Thus, every year less and less money remains for art, so for what is to take place in these houses. Even the right free entry of young people under the age of 19 into the federal museums must be carried by the houses themselves, and this also reduces the operating budget. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So instead of completely pointless promotions Putting money out – Mrs Minister, I would like to remind you of the € 1 million for a re-densification of the German anthem, which was probably one of the great negative examples; we have experienced this in the form of an answer to a request, and it is a shame in our eyes that one spends money for the re-densification of the German anthem – would it be, we think, more important that we entertain our large cultural institutions: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Art universities, museums, theatres and opera houses, monument protection, libraries, traditional feast weeks, because the preservation of these large institutions can guarantee the cohesion and stability of a society. This is also a very important role that art and culture can play within a country. We must set priorities. The preservation of our identity is the subject of our conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24593	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24651	Ladies and gentlemen! On its own, for information: In the new year, the German anthem will be on Parliament's homepage in sign language – this will be completed. Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann's next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24675	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Unterlander, you have missed the fine words on culture in the speech of the Minister for Finance on the budget. You know, that's because we don't keep it that way with the beautiful words, but rather measure us by the actions we put. [[Abg. Petzner: To servas! That's exactly the point!]] That speaks for itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria's cultural nation, it is right and important that, through joint efforts by Finance Minister and responsible Minister of Culture, it was also possible not to shorten the cultural sector. That would probably be too little in total to clean up a budget, but it would destroy important cultural institutions if you had shortened there and deleted something. One can have different views in cultural policy, that is legitimate. However, I do not see the museum crisis raised by you, Mrs Unterlander, at the best. On the contrary, read the latest art and culture report, where it is quite clear that the number of visitors to the individual museums has increased, that many tourists are coming to Austria because of the culture, because of our museums. It's a lot too. In my opinion, the new director of the Art History Museum is doing very good work, the new director of the MumOK will have to prove himself, the approaches are very positive. The management of the MAK is currently under review. So I think that work in progress can also be politically supported by our side. You said Migrant Mainstreaming wasn't in your interest. You can also argue about this in a city like Vienna. I believe that Multikulti is not something to fear, but – quite the contrary – is very positive. What, however, if I think of Vienna, is very angry and also worrying – as can be seen from the last cultural report, at least €5.6 million has been paid by the Federation for it – is the Volkstheater. If I look at the last Court of Auditors report – I would just like to mention three points – I have to say that, as I mean, it is very macabre and I also need an intensive discussion with the Vienna Cultural City Council. Conclusions on: Submit requests for funding in good time, prepare budget items in the annual budget so that they are well documented and also easy to understand, and also cover personnel costs for the cost carriers, are already strong pieces where, as I believe, the federal government must have a positive impact on Vienna. Basically, in times like this, the credo must say that money for culture should just flow into the program and not into the system. In this respect, we are eagerly expecting the evaluation report on the Bundestheaters. Then, in a constructive way, one will also be able to talk and discuss the dreaded deficit of €24 million, so the Bundestheater directors have formulated, talked and discussed it. All measures to be taken must be adopted. Mrs Minister, if it is said that ten years after the exclusion, there are quite opportunities to work even more efficiently, we as coalition partners will at least fully support you. Otherwise full power ahead for existing investment measures and for all the projects you have already announced, such as the Kunstkammer and the 20s Haus! I think we are on the right path to cultural policy. I hope it will be that way in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24721	Mr Mag. Dr. Zinggl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24742	Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already praised the cultural budget here. “Blessed” is a bit exaggerated for a constant budget, but after all, in times of scarce budgets, it has succeeded in keeping the cultural budget half-time constant. The “half-way” is also interesting, because 800,000 apparently flowed into the classroom, which is not right for me, but they are peanuts. At least we have some kind of budget standstill. But that is no reason, Mrs Minister, to prove motionlessness in cultural policy itself. It is also necessary, with scarce means, to pursue cultural policy, I believe. You have to get the maximum out, and that's what I miss. They run a kind of administrative policy in the cultural field, they run the shop more or less, and this then affects à la longue catastrophic. That's what I've been pointing out every time, and I've been pointing it out for years. There is a growing gap between the large tankers and the many others who make culture in the country. This is quite clear, because, as soon as they shout, feed and improve a little, the representative state institutions will be able to do so. They are, as it were, secured, while the many others in the country that operate culture have to look where they stay. But they also have inflation, because they are not valorized, they then go on gums. Because rents are getting higher, staff costs are getting higher, and they have to see where they stay. This is also a kind of symbolic distribution policy that shows itself in culture. I am very much in favour of getting away from the old social democratic concept of ‘culture for all’ and considering whether it should be called ‘culture of all’ for a long time, for 30 years. That's exactly what you're not doing! Another aspect I miss is retranslations and reflections regarding media. We clearly need more and more and more production in the film sector. There is therefore also the announcement in the Government Declaration: 20 million to the end of the legislative period. If we get the budget, but If we look at the budget framework, then we can't see anything about it. You said in committee that you were going to keep it. So I'm not so naïve, I can't imagine that in the coming years, the framework targets that are set will now suddenly add € 3 million to € 4 million for the film. I do not think so, therefore, I believe that there is also a failure of cultural policy. A third example – Mr Unterlander has already mentioned it; and I am pleased that the liberals also jump on this train – the sad chapter “Museum of Cultures” or the former Museum of Art. Mrs Minister, you know that, we all know: This Museum of Art is from the collection one of the most important museums of folklore that the world has, and this museum is broken – this is really a shame! – since Minister Gehrer subordinated it to the Art History Museum. There's just no longer that. The Museum of People's History does not exist in the public, and that does not exist as an action. So you can't see it, and that's not just a shame, it's a shame. It would be very urgent to convert the term “Völkerkundemuseum” into “Museum of Cultures”. This would be very important because we are dealing with a problem in the cultural debate, namely the constant ideas of a model of cultures, which could also represent a museum differently, by showing which cultures can live alongside each other and together and how this has always worked. I therefore call on you and, in fact, ask you to take Parliament's motion for a resolution in question seriously. There is a three-party resolution request from the government parties and the Greens, which obviously the liberals can also recover something where it is about developing the National History Museum and the Volkskundemuseum together as an independent museum. You are always talking about the establishment of all kinds of bodies, but to talk to Mr Fuhrmann, let the beautiful words finally follow actions! It does not fail in the budget – you yourself have said at the budget, the money will not fail. It only fails that you either don't want it or that you can't enforce it. I hope we're still experiencing this. I doubt it when I look at the last months. I think you should act more and respond to the current needs instead of just managing the budget and letting the store run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24804	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24825	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Unterlander, because you spoke to me: I think we simply have different definitions of contemporary, modern and advanced, and we probably do not get together. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to link the two areas of education and culture, namely education and culture. For years, we have stressed the importance of cultural education for students: first, as the foundation of general education, and this includes the joy and the Indulgence to deal with texts, so read and understand how it not only demands the PISA test, but how we all demand it, and, secondly, as a foundation for self experience, reflection and further development. Now, art, culture and education are united in one department, and synergies between these two areas can be used and visions of cultural education can also be implemented. This merger will benefit both sectors, not only from direct financial cost-benefit accounting, but also, as has been said, from the creation of foundations. In addition to the emphasis on increased participation, the free entry into museums until the 19th century. The promotion of regional cultural initiatives, for example in museums, is of particular importance for years of life, and for example for the media. And this is where the circle closes, because the “Art Makes School” project is intended to create a comprehensive partnership between cultural initiatives, artists and schools by 2015. There is a corresponding school culture budget, and “cultureContact” will also establish the necessary contacts and bring together schools and cultural initiatives. In my opinion, this is an ideal combination of the tasks so strictly shared so far. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24867	Mr Petzner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e24889	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! “It’s my opinion that more planned, consistent and subject-oriented action must become visible and effective.” – This statement in the direction of the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP is not from me, but from our Federal President Heinz Fischer, who so said in a current interview for the tomorrow or the morning issue of the news magazine “NEWS”. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this statement by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany towards the coalition parties is very true of the field of education. We need more planned, consistent and subject-oriented action in the field of education, especially in view of the recent results of the PISA study, where Austria has fallen to 31 out of 34 participating OECD countries, for example in the field of reading skills. You know, Mrs Minister – and this guarantee you have from us – that you have the full support of the BZÖ for your reform efforts in the field of education, because we believe that it is urgently necessary to take comprehensive reform steps in the field of education, and we have never understood and will never understand the blockade policy of the EIA in this area, ladies and gentlemen, because it is to the detriment and burden of our children, for which an optimal education is the key to a successful and good life. [[OBJECTIVES]] A few examples of educational reforms that we would like to mention: We need to simplify and depoliticize the school administration. We do not want a change in school competence, but we want the sole competence of the federal government. We want the New Secondary School. We want to force the New Middle School, and we don't want a "Pröll School" according to old system, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We confess that it is also important to improve the teacher's professional image, the teacher's image. We need a uniform right of service and remuneration. We We also need uniform training standards. And we also need, ladies and gentlemen, to further expand the offer in the field of day care, for which additional €80 million in the budget is now foreseen, because this is a very crucial factor for the compatibility of work and family. There is €80 million – you know, Mrs. Federal Minister – a drop on the hot stone. The central concern or the central reform approach is and remains the force of the New Secondary School. The 320 locations are successful, we are very pleased with this, and we want to expand it further, together with you, Mrs. Federal Minister. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite all the ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the SPÖ, to support this request. In this context, I recall a statement by the mayor of Vienna Michael Häupl, who said: Yes, we are looking for other majorities in the field of education away from the great coalition when there is a stopover in reform! . You already have the opportunity to follow this invitation from the mayor of Vienna in this motion for a resolution today. It is also on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, a popular educational desire of Hannes Androsch, then Minister. Only: I hope he doesn't deal with this popular desire as he used to be a minister with popular desires. I would remind you of the popular desire against the construction of the conference centre, the most successful popular desire of all time that was then initiated by Mr Androsch, who is now advocating great popular desire for signatures, with a handshake from the table and where the conference centre was still built against the will of the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Androsch should also be measured by his own actions in his government responsibility and not forget what he has done there. A sentence also on the arts and culture sector: Compared to other countries, where sometimes massive cuts are provided, we have no reductions in the cultural budget in Austria. This is a positive commitment to Austria's cultural nation. The question is how these resources are used. We have already tabled an amendment to the Budgetary Accompanying Act yesterday, and today we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the use of resources: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, Mrs. Federal Minister, I can assure you that in the new year 2011 you will be able to count on the support of the BZÖ for your reform efforts. In that sense, everything is good!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25019	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25110	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25132	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has already been mentioned: The Federation remains a stable partner in the field of art and culture. There are €430 million available for 2011. Of course, additional funds would have been very positive in many areas. Mr Zinggl has the discrepancy between traditional art and culture and contemporary The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the approximation of the laws, regulations and Unfortunately, there is no such thing as that. But I have to tell you personally: I am relatively glad that it has succeeded in having stable budgets in this area and not having to stand here to explain to you where we need to make cuts. I would like to expressly thank Mrs MEP Fuhrmann for excellent cooperation, particularly in the field of the preparation of the evaluation of the Bundestheater. I think it is important to work together in a very close government partnership. It is possible to continue the priorities set in the field of art promotion, and it is possible – Mrs. Unterlander has referred to it – to continue the basic fee for the large institutions, namely the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre, unchanged. In addition to your remarks, I would like to say that since increases have been possible in recent years, from my point of view, the situation is not so tense as described by you. In the field of investment, I should like to say that They inform you that the projects Kunstkammer, 20er Haus and also the refurbishment of the MumOK have been and will be very carefully prepared, implemented and can also be completed as planned according to the current state of information. In the Committee on Budgets, in particular at the speech of Mr Petzner, we discussed in greater detail the subject of museum funding, the promotion of books, the promotion of folk culture. We have budgeted the area of folk culture more for 2011 than in the previous year with €500 000. Mr Zinggl, you have referred to my art and cultural priorities. For my part, a declared political goal is to support contemporary art in the best possible way within the framework of the given financial possibilities, and we have three stated priorities here. The first point is the field of art communication. In fact, it is of great benefit – which has also been mentioned by Mrs Muttonen – to be responsible for education, art and culture in a house. It is thus possible to coordinate school programmes and programmes of the Federal Museums and the Bundestheater without major detour. And the project “free entry into the federal museums” is a successful project that we also want to continue. Second point: Youth promotion. We can continue the scholarship programs, and we can continue the studio programs. And I am very pleased – I would like to thank Mr Molterer, in particular, for his commitment to the BIG – that it has been successful to bring the “Prateliers” to the field of art and culture through a right of fruit pleasure. It is therefore possible to provide the free studios – there are very, very many studio spaces free because they have not been rented for a long time – young artists and female artists. Only yesterday I was able to nominate three artists who found work there for seven years in the studio. The third point is the field of internationalization: participation in international exhibitions, but also in the incoming area, the provision of work opportunities for international artists in Austria. Mr Zinggl then referred to the subject of film in particular. Here I repeat my commitment to the government programme and to the €20 million for the public sector. We currently stand at €16.6 million. 2 million € are available for the innovative film in 2011. I am also very pleased that a joint government effort has succeeded in anchoring important cultural policy issues in the ORF Act. I call this the Radio Symphony Orchestra, and I also call the legal anchoring of the film/TV agreement with a higher dosage, with €8 million. We will be able to announce the details of the new film/TV agreement in January – this is what is planned for now. But it is not only about promoting the production of Austrian films, but it is important that the Austrian films are also seen and sent. There are similar agreements in the film/TV agreement. And we also want the digitalization of the programme cinemas in 2011. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. We want to make digitalisation possible through co-financing, because the programme cinemas are missing funding for a hundred percent alone. We should increase the presence and perception of contemporary art, as discussed in the Committee on Budgets at the suggestion of Mr Rosenkranz. We will continue the exhibition “In Between”, an exhibition on contemporary art, in 2011. We also want award awards, awards to receive greater media attention. As Minister of Art and Culture, I can only stress that Parliament's activities, activities of the House are very welcome in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25204	Mrs Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25225	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With this 7.7 billion budget for the classroom, the quality, diversity and attractiveness of education can be further improved. On the side of the ÖVP, we are particularly pleased that it has succeeded in creating the necessary framework to be able to implement all points of the Coalition Agreement in the future with appropriate priority-making. In particular, individual support is particularly important to us, and to promote and facilitate it in all stages of life. To do this, we need the coordinated, transparent and interconnected education canon, an appropriate educational range, which enables lifelong learning from kindergarten to school, university to further education. Education must not be a dead end! No finish without connection! That must be our common approach. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Is this the new education concept of the People's Party? Is that already chordd with your party?]] Modern means to us, Mr Petzner, that it will be possible in every phase of life to acquire further and higher education degrees. [[Abg. Petzner: Finish the reform blockade once! Blocker party!]] This means, for example, for young people without or only with compulsory schooling, that they get a second and third chance. This means, for example, that apprentices can combine teaching and matura. This means applying even more for the professional maturity examination and promoting it as an entry into the university. Austria, Mr Walser, invests significantly more in education than Germany at 5.5 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Petzner: Germany, however, cuts off better at the PISA-Stu- which! What's the cause?]] Germany is currently focusing on us, and not vice versa. This also shows the latest study that has just come out. In primary school Austria, with over €6,000 per year per child, is part of the international top-level group of public expenditure. That's a good thing. Each cent invested for under twelve years has a ten-fold higher effect than in later stages of education because it is preventive. In Austria, however, expenditure is still high in international comparison for young people in vocational training. Here too, we are clearly above the EU average and above the OECD average. Austria spends almost twice as much on vocational training compared to Germany. [[Abg. Petzner: What is the result?]] We therefore have the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe. This is a reason to be proud of our education system, of our vocational training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: It's such a fool!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr Petzner is right!]] We need reliability in conclusion to enable the connection. We need, therefore, more education standards, which are also really being evaluated, educational qualifications that are reliable, which allow for the transition from one education offer to another. [[Abg. Petzner: This is a bankruptcy statement! ... let's go!]] Ladies and gentlemen. The 10- to 14-year-olds already have a common curriculum! I hope that you have now all arrived and that we will make sure that this joint curriculum is actually implemented together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25354	Mr Jury has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25375	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager, I think you have had the wrong speech. You think you're in the wrong movie when you hear how great our education system is. The fact is that we are at the forefront of expenditure on the education system in Europe, but the fact is that there is too little evidence of the educational sector and of this supply of education. That is why I am also spiritual and also with my heart with our Minister of Education, who has set up the New Middle School, which is on a very good path, especially in Carinthia. And there are indeed deficits in the primary schools, which cannot be rejected by hand. I would therefore like to thank the Minister of Education once again and wish her much strength to this New Secondary School colleague, Mr Petzner, that you do not know yourself very well in the school and in the education sector, prove your speech contribution. [[Abg. Petzner: Mr Rosenkranz, however, spoke against the New Middle School! What's going on with you?]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Abg. Petzner) Listen! Listen!]] Another point, Mrs Minister, is this educational offensive in the country of Carinthia with the teaching with Matura, where Carinthia is a pioneer and which is also the future in view of our educational problems. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the future, we must strengthen our efforts to put our children at the centre of our interest and educational interest, and not always the sensibilities of the educators and the administration. On the subject of culture and art, I would like to point out that the cultural initiatives, Mrs Minister, and also the art communication, which is very important to you, are also well thought out in the 2011 budget and that it should continue to be transparent and comprehensible in the future. – I know, just can never be promotions, because there is always someone who says: Why does he get a promotion and I don't get any? However, to ensure that this is also secure for the future, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The aim is to support and secure these positive forces of support, art communication programmes, cultural initiatives and projects for the future. - Good luck, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25469	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25520	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25542	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I believe that all those who are finally calling for a school and education reform must say again: We're not at the start. We're already on our way. The question is: Could it not go a little faster? I think that this question is justified. It's right, it could go a little faster. But I remember the budgetary consultations in the Economic Committee, when Federal Minister Mitterlehner said quite honestly and openly: There are different opinions in the ÖVP that have not yet been discussed. – That is, I think, also the answer as regards the question of the pace. So we're gonna need a little bit more to get a little speedy. Mrs Bundesminister, I might like to compare this a little bit to road transport: For a time we have stood in the garage in education policy, there has been nothing going on; that was before your time. Then we're a little in the 30's zone. In the meantime we are on the road, on the way to the federal road, but on the highway we are not yet far. The goal should be that we also get to the highway from the Bundesstraße. We will succeed. It is, as has been said, just a matter of time. In any case, the budget allows the continuation of reform measures – it has already been pointed out –: smaller classes, extension of day care and at the same time associated with what has not yet been said, even less need of private support – for if there is day care, there must also be a funding in school in the afternoon – language promotion clearly. And what is a very special heart concern to me is, of course, the teaching with Matura. If, in the budget for the next year, €12.4 million is planned, well over 7,000 apprentices can benefit from this, which, in addition to their teaching or at the end of their teaching, can also prepare for and complete the professional test. I think that just as one promotes the apprentices towards Matura, one must also, and that is what we should do, ensure that those who have broken their teaching for some reason do not have the opportunity to re-acquire this education. In this sense, I am looking forward to further cooperation in the Teaching Committee and, above all, with our Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25585	Mr Brosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25608	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I experienced the debate at the beginning of December a little different from the PISA publications until then. The first three I have heard as an educational speaker, now the colleague has taken over Walser, and this also creates a certain distance to this daily reaction must. I let this happen once. I remember very well: When the first PISA study came, there was a “Cordoba debate” at the time, after which Austria had been so much better than Germany. And with that, the debate about the first PISA results was already abated. All the more difficult, because that was in 2001, when I really remember it, and if you think back how long it was, then you know that the children who were now involved in the last PISA study actually completed most of their school career after the first PISA study came. In these nine years, one can say, as far as the results are concerned, - let us go of this with the difficulties in the survey -: The fact that there would be a trend to the top of us can't really be seen. This is, I think, a little bit about the key elements of how this debate is being conducted, regardless of the school-type discussion. I have now changed the perspective in a second form: My children are now eleven and thirteen and have landed in high school. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Well, be ashamed!]] There you have the discussion: We've got schoolwork! – If you look at your parents in the environment, you know about how afternoons are going and where learning takes place to a high degree: not in school, but in a high degree, even with your parents. One can figure out in about what part the parent's ability is to deal with the children, to help them, and how this distinguishes the children from those where this is not the case at home. Generally speaking, it must be said that the New Secondary School has overcome one with all the better possibilities, partly with more resources, for all the advantages it offers, namely the early division of children. We got one more school type, we don't have a form of merging the school. And now let us leave away the ideological issue, which is not so much the point at all, but I think it is much more about how teaching and how learning is understood. And as long as we still have the discussion: does it need performance groups?, does it need differentiation?, let's go from a picture where you gather children into groups, and then there is a group, and for all of them there is the optimal teaching together. We finally have to get away from this picture and assume that each child is different, that each child learns differently. And most importantly, I believe that self-employment in learning must go to the centre. I can tell you that if you are a father of 11 and 13 years old children, as school still works today, it is in many cases so that she does not differ from my school age at all, and that is now in about 30 years of age – apart from the fact that they originally have the same teachers that I have had when going through the same school career. But if you look at how school has changed, you have to say: If we had had so little innovation in other professions, that would be a proper problem. In my opinion, the central point of further school development is that independence in learning must be the focus. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When you look at where children take something, where something happens, where they develop joy, where they are motivated, where they do something themselves – that is not comparable to all where they are forced to learn. That's not a concept of performance. The Greens have a massive concept of performance, I say. Our concept of performance means that we want to give all children the opportunity to make the most of their opportunities, to promote them as much as possible, but not all of them do so over a comb. That's the point that matters centrally. It is also not about learning after the weaknesses, but that the strengths should be at the centre of the school system. It is not always about investing exactly where you have the biggest problems, but also about having time there to continue working where you see most of the skills, your own strengths. As the basis for this is certainly also laid in the language and reading skills, I will conclude by submitting the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25669	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25755	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25779	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In principle, the education budget has risen steadily since 2001, and this is very encouraging. Many positive things have also happened: The afternoon, the afternoon care was extended, the language promotion improved, the classes became smaller. And there are also a large number of school trials, with an even greater variety of model experiments. This is basically positive, but should be evaluated once after an attempt to decide whether the respective model is the right one, whether it should be taken over in the regular school system or whether the stop button is pressed. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go, we have 30 years!]] Ethics, for example: There are some very successful school attempts in this area, and I wish that this kind of ethics teaching could be taken over in the general school system. [[Abg. Oillingers: But you also know the position of the ÖVP!]] For the model test in secondary level 1: Here are wonderful models that are driven forward with the greatest commitment of the teachership – see Vorarlberg, the Vorarlberg Central School. Only: There are not the New Secondary School, but the various projects. I am therefore very excited about an initial evaluation and about which elements of the different models can then be taken over into the regular education system. Now to the embarrassing PISA result and to the even more embarrassing PISA debate: The solution to all the problems in the common school of ten to fourteen years old is naïve and goes beyond the subject. The fact is that, according to the TIMSS sample in 2007, the performance of the pupils already has enormous differences in the schools. Despite guidance as a whole school, uniform curriculum, uniformly trained teachers and similar resources, there are dramatic differences between the best and the worst Austrian folk schools. There should be the questions allowed: Which schools are the best? Why are they the best? What can we learn from them? And how can you bring up the worst? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Inescapable average results do not bring us any further, details and regional breakdowns are required. – I would like that in the PISA study. But: There's also a chance in every crisis! – The consequence of the PISA study cannot be a system discussion, but one has to start with those who teach our children computing, reading and writing, namely the teachers. It can't be that a professional group is constantly being mistreated, that public teachers' bashing is being operated, and that teachers are fed off with ridiculous starting salaries. [[Abg. Oils: Who's doing that?]] Let us not wonder, therefore, if we face a great lack of teachers – with us in Vorarlberg he is already very clearly felt. That's why we need a new teacher's right, right now. This project is long overdue. We need to negotiate seriously. It is high time that this right of service came to the world – with a service-based payment and higher entrance salaries – because our educators need public recognition and more appreciation. The teachers, who are ultimately responsible for an exciting, fruitful lesson in which the students are curious, are curiously asked for, but are also encouraged. The decisive are not the architecture, not the building, but the people who teach with commitment, with motivation, with pedagogical skill in school, and these are the teachers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25851	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25872	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Franz, I am entirely of your opinion when you say that ‘teachers’ have to be upgraded. Of course, they need our support because they do a responsible and hard job, but then you also need to understand that I did not understand the debate as far as the two hours are concerned, because there are 500 million inside as regards tax reform. You will understand that you can really need this money to invest it in the schools. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] An important point I would like to address – we have heard this many times today – is teaching with Matura, a concept of success that comes from Carinthia, very supported by the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider. I am very pleased that you, Mrs Minister, have done this with him. Mr. Jury, you're here now. Previously we said: We are, of course, for the New Middle School – which of course was also driven by Dr. Jörg Haider, as you know, and that is what Stefan Petzner meant before – which was a success concept in Carinthia for many years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interlocutory calls from the Deputies Jury and Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Mr Rosenkranz, I don't know, are you Carinthian, or why are you talking to that now? They are probably the all-knowing spokesperson of FPÖ/FPK. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are other opinions here in Parliament...! Democracy is called it!]] I am speaking for my federal state, and that is why the subject has already been dealt with for me. The next point: Art and culture. It is very gratifying, Mrs Minister, that you have combined these areas. They thought that this would be an appreciation for art and culture. If I look at the booklet, it is very striking that the 2009 successes – I have already told you – and the 2010 Federal Estimate are not included in it, so that the comparison figures are missing in the list. You said it was the Ministry of Finance. I would ask you to control this more closely in the future – the budget has already arrived so late anyway – then we would all be easier to do with the comparison figures. An important point for me is the House of History, a “Never-ending Story” – from 1999 to 2010 only talk about it. Originally praised as a million project, it was then driven by the ministers Elisabeth Gehrer and Platter in 2006. There was another evaluation carried out, a working group used et cetera. A implementation strategy has been drawn up, but nothing has yet been done in this regard. In the Committee, Mrs Minister, I asked you what the cost is – they are now estimated at €100 000. I would ask you to develop a strategy in this context and definitely determine when the House of History is actually realized, including location finding. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, I would ask you to take action in this regard. You said in committee that the project has no priority for you. If this is really the case, then we should stop the project – which I found very bad, especially after the efforts of the past 11 years – then we could certainly invest the money somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25945	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e25999	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26021	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the many school projects that are being continued, I would like to address the extension of school day care. The budget will provide €80 million per year from the 2011/12 school year on for the creation of new full-day places, and 80 000 new places will be planned and created. Finally, there is a lack of school forms and services throughout Austria, because in the decades leading up to them, social development has not been observed. In a very wide-ranging survey conducted by the BMUKK, 68 percent of parents have now registered needs or supported the expansion of school full-day care. It is not just about the care of children, but about implementing a comprehensive education concept based on the need for children to experience and learn about new models, regardless of the qualifications and merits of parents and their education, education. Therefore, high quality day care must be continued offensively. It is € 126 million that parents need to find out each year for further assistance, because in education, the time to teach and deepen the teaching material is now no longer sufficient. And if you don't have the money or the possibility of re-help, you don't rarely get on the track in the current school system. New structures are needed for these full-day forms: School types, cross-border offers, which are flexible in the restricted form, guarantee minimum opening times and provide for additional use of leisure education. With day-to-day school forms, we also create additional opportunities for children to be better promoted in school, but also to be sufficiently in contact with movement, sport, art, culture, creativity and intercultural understanding as well as self-responsibility. The framework conditions and investments are necessary. In school buildings, care must be taken for all day care. Good preparation for this is necessary for the Article 15a agreements with the countries – the Minister has already announced this. And there will be a move to those who strive relatively quickly to promote and intensify all-day school forms. Let us continue overdue educational reforms across all ideological boundaries, because these important investments in education are also investments in the future of our country. I wish you, Mrs Minister, a great deal of courage and strength for this great task.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26076	Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26097	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister, in the Committee on Budgets on Education, I have already been very pleased with your words and statements. This is really all kinds of things and a lot of what is planned here, what you should actually do. What I have learned in addition today – that is also essential – is that our different positions are not so far apart at all. I also take it that one should not first talk about the organizational structures – it is quite essential that I have a baking dough before Christmas, and I can look for the modeling form later. It's essentially always about content. I know, in education, it's about the same as in health: We have heard today, we have the best health system in Austria, but we also know that most people can no longer afford it, and then you have nothing of it either. [[Abg. Head: What?]] So it is also important that we have a school system that everyone can afford. And that's one thing, too. So there is this beautiful triangle you called: the children, the teachers and the parents. If you were to philosophise a little, you would have to say that we would soon have a school system that is really worth all honours, of course, with some cancellations with what you have offered here. If you could do that, it would be a really great, great story. But I also hope that all the parents – which has already been talked about today at the family budget – will be able to afford this later on. This is also related to cultural things: Who pays for admissions to the museums? Who can still attend school school today, et cetera? So we also have to offer solutions. I take one word from the speeches of my previous speakers, which also has a lot to do with the appreciation – I also think the deideologicalization of this education system is an essential step. We cannot really stand here, but we must move further forward. And there is the whole story that we assume and say: Children are human capital, that's capital! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this capital, of course, depends on our all appreciation. Now we will soon have a great school system, have great schools, express energetically, and all that we will not have, however, are children. Now we don't know what we're gonna do with the kids anymore. It is also noted that family themes are also suitable for school themes. We should seriously detideologically talk about what so many things mean, for example: How do we deal with the protection of the unborn? - It's a little grey already. Is that really something else? - A good story. I take this debate with me: We need to redefine the framework conditions for teachers, parents and students. You have partly presented this, and I wish you every love for it. Content and goals – what do we want to achieve, by what means, what can our children do? - We're always talking about a school. Please, what does a 14-, 15-year-old have to be able to teach, what does he need to be able to do when he is in school? We need to define this clearly. I come to the end, because the light is already shining all the time – that makes me so nervous: We need to give teachers more joy and appreciation again. The teacher is really the last one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] He's the last one! I may be allowed to give you a motivation from Graz – you have called the explosive, I love explosives too, that's a great story – to say the following: Great things happen in Graz. For example, teachers become ill because they no longer trust to give the students a lack of satisfaction because the parents are so powerful that they say: Then I'll go to the Kadi! Or, of course, there is an instruction from the ministry. Or: the attack of a student on teachers – there are police, court proceedings, the student may continue to go to school, the decision lies with the lawyers of the National School Council, and so on. Please, exclusions! We need to strengthen the position of the teacher, otherwise he will become a Hampelmann – the students know that they are not only sweet, but also small animals, lovable animals, and I believe that this is also important to parents' associations. Let us help the teachers again to respect what they deserve, for like the mothers, they also raise the future and the bloom of our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26146	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26167	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Three weeks ago, a special session took place, namely, not politicians were at the speaker’s desk, but students from integration classes. It was the same thing that the Federal Minister was sitting on the government bank and was also the President of the National Council here. They have invited the students to discuss and have listened to the concerns of disabled and unimpeded students who go to school together. It was very interesting. What I took from it is an inclusion rule, namely an ABC rule. Inclusion requires A such as freedom of movement, B such as freedom of movement and C equal opportunities. And I'd like to say something about that. A like fear: The school is afraid of changes, especially among the laymen, when something changes. But disabled children have brought a new form of education: open teaching, project teaching, lower schooling, individualised curriculum, just what is needed in the school system today: an internal differentiation, even if all students go to one class together. B such as Accessibility: There is a current problem: that the Disability Equality Act cannot be fulfilled by the Ministry of Education by 2015 that not all federal schools can be made barrier-free. We have the time limit in such a Exceptional cases are extended until 2019, and I very much welcome the fact that the Minister of Education has said today that €20 million is intended for school adaptations in 2011. That's good, there must be no stop, it has to go on. My concern is: No school visit of a disabled student may fail at a school barrier. A school for everyone must not end at the steps at the entrance of the school. It would be important to ensure that. And in the event of an emergency, there must also be individual solutions. There is still C, equal opportunities: It needs an inclusion roadmap to further develop integration towards inclusion, and in my opinion it should contain five points. The first would be that the inclusion in new trainings becomes a regular case. The second would be to implement the continuation after the eighth level. Thankfully, there are school attempts, and these should be evaluated in foreseeable time and then transferred to the general school system. Another point would be that disabled teachers are also necessary. Integration begins in the teacher's room. Fourth point: Also the curriculum-new should include that every teacher who is being re-trained deals with the topic of inclusion, integration, that this is nothing new. The last point would be that the special schools with their many experiences will be converted into individual educational centres, that individualized teaching takes place in all schools. I believe that such an inclusion roadmap should be possible under the National Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26247	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26268	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On the subject of education, I would also like to talk about the budget. My colleague, Mr Huainigg, has already said this: The deadline for achieving accessibility in the school sector will be extended by four years. – This is not a real saving, but, as it were, a shift. In the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, Article 19 – freedom of choice and self-reliance – states that people can also choose schools, choose areas and shape education as appropriate for them. This situation – you already know – has not yet been achieved in Austria. We have segregation – we have special schools and regular schools – and I am sure you all haven't really come in touch with people with disabilities. There used to be colleague Haidlmayr, now we have Mr Huainigg. How do I deal with disabled people? – For many of them, this is totally unusual. The word integration is often very misunderstanding, because the child does not always get what it needs. Listening and hearing children get a few hours of support teachers, and the rest of the lessons are lost to them. The school buildings are also not always accessible for accessibility and the curriculum does not always match what the child needs. I suppose you already know it, but in practice it is so that “inclusion” is the new word; to the word “integration” we want to keep a little distance. Inclusion is also defined in the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. Every child gets what it needs according to his needs, not just a little of it. Inclusion means to me here in this case that an interpreter is here. I can make calls with their help and carry out my activity normally. Mr Huainigg has built up a personal assistant, who reads to him in part, stops the microphone, walks around with him, maybe even builds up the ramp, so that he too can participate in the same way. Does he get “a little bit, ” 5 hours, assistants to participate in “a little ”? No, it's not like this! It is fully integrated and also has the opportunity to work full. – In the school sector, this possibility is not yet available. That is why the inclusion timetable, just as my colleague Huainigg has already said, is absolutely important. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Inclusion is important to involve also affected people in the design of the plan. Inclusion is also necessary in teacher training at the base. We have already submitted applications for the deletion of the higher education registration regulation, since disabled people are excluded, disabled people are not coming in. It's often said: I don't know about disability issues, I don't know how to do that, I don't know how to deal with them, so we're not going to do it! - No, we need equal rights here, too, in training. Especially in the case of deaf children – and since I like to repeat – it is important that teachers are not obliged, and are not at all obliged to demonstrate sign language competence. This is not possible for inclusion in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I put it this way: If education is poor, the future perspective is also very poor in view of a high rate of unemployment. If we save now, there are no good prospects for the future; if we now have a good investment situation, the future will also look rosy. – Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26344	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26366	Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of budget debates, the picture is very often stressed that we have the budgets in such a way that we should not leave our children a mountain of debt. I would like to add another picture, namely that we also have the obligation to make budgets in such a way that we can equip our children with a corresponding start-up capital. That is why it is particularly important that it has succeeded in creating conditions even in the case of a savings budget in order to continue the reform path of recent years. Even if we would have liked to be able to continue it more offensively, it is important to be able to take further important steps in the next few years. A very important step is the expansion of day care, which I consider to be a real key to what we see as a central goal in education policy, school policy, namely that we do not want to give up the gifts of any child who wants to promote children accordingly – including those who come from a social environment where they get less assistance and support, but where the talents are present. For this purpose, the expansion of the whole day school, all day care, is a really important key, so I very much welcome the fact that the next steps will be taken, that we will have a total of 200 000 seats. The second very important step is to continue the development of the New Secondary School – also very important in order to be able to support children accordingly, including those who come from a social environment where they do not have the support at home to this extent. The extension will continue: In addition, very, very many classes will be opened. I do not give up the hope that we will soon be able to give up the 10-percent limit and expand further programmes here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26408	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26429	Madam President. Minister! It's a shame Mrs. Schmied isn't there, I'd like to address her directly. I am – and this is really a big concern for us and this is very important to us – about the open-air museum Stübing. Half of the annual budget of €1.2 million is financed by revenue, no one feels responsible for financing the rest. Although the association was transformed into a foundation, neither the Ministry of Education nor Science nor the Ministry of Agriculture participate in the financing. There is a need for money: €300 000, which exceeds the federal grant of € 73 000 in the course of teaching. A board meeting took place yesterday. – I would have liked to ask the Minister what happened, because I do not know the result. However, so that the negotiations do not go in the sand and since it is really high time, I make the following request repeatedly:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26487	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26544	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26565	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The future and the education of our children are at the heart of our policy, so in the 2011 budget, the Federal Government also provided more funds than in 2010. The focus of the last few months and years will continue to be on offensive measures with an equivalent value of €80 million, such as the expansion of day care, the reduction of the maximum number of class students or the programme of teaching with Matura, which will be further driven forward. – I think that this can be congratulated on, even if you are naturally different from the opposition. The need for action and the best investment in education have been confirmed in the last week. The results of the PISA study serve as a basis for all of us, although the results should not be overinterpreted. If I think about the measurement methods and the selection of the test persons, I can already wonder why at 15, even at the age of 16. Of course, the publication of results – we are in the middle of it – leads to a fundamental discussion of how schools should be directed. In my opinion, however, it is not about ideologies being in the foreground, but it should simply be achieved the best possible way for our children. The solution should not be to crush the proven – proven ones like our gymnasiums – but we must find a good dialogue, a good co-existence of primary schools and gymnasiums, as it works well in Tyrol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where there are deficits, which occur mainly in schools in the urban, in the agglomerations, we must improve the primary schools and continue to be ready to take funds. This happens very intensively in my federal state of Tyrol: At the initiative of the Education Councillor Beate Palfrader from the school year 2011/2012, a total of 1 399 additional hours of funding lessons will be funded so that children and young people can be better promoted at the primary schools according to their talents and the teaching can be made even more individual. Take action instead of talking!: This is the access I praise. I am also against the fact that our very well-functioning country primary schools are constantly being mistreated. Mrs. Federal Minister – unfortunately she is not here – ah, she's back. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] God, hello! I don't have eyes in the back, I'm sorry! Save with the gags of various monopolistic consultants and give the money instead to the primary schools so that our children get the best possible support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26606	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26627	Madam President. Ladies ministers! Very briefly – Mr Mayer has just come. I have in your word messages as a replica to me actually belong only to the words “painful, embarrassing, embarrassing, eternal, eternal. ” – I hope that as a teacher you do not only have a restricted code. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] On behalf of my colleague, Mrs Walser, whom I am not seeing right now: They have assumed that advocates of the gymnasium differ in the long form between good and bad teachers. Name: The good is the high school teacher and the bad teacher. – Let’s say one thing: As a woman's son, who was a primary school teacher with body and soul, I will certainly not contaminate my mother's memory just because you have ideological scams that make the view of things – which is more differentiated by Colleague Brosz – different. I should like to thank Mrs Minister for addressing a lot of things that can be worked out together, which really is where there can be conflicts, but perhaps not in one area or another. I may make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26700	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But this has not worked very well!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26764	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26786	Madam President. Dear ministers! We are now returning to the culture: It has already been mentioned several times here in the house, how pleased it is that we have a stable budget in the art and culture budget, also – and we have said this again and again – when we know, of course, that the same budget at the same time means that there is a lack in some areas, because there are no inflation payments. But against the background of the conditions, a similarity is a success anyway. We can also continue certain priorities in the field of mediation, participation, culture for all and culture with all, and, most importantly, the promotion of young people with the holding of state grants of € 600 000. In addition, the focus is on continuing and securing the free entry, which has encouraging figures as regards the use of the museums, or on extending the biennial contracts for art and cultural initiatives, giving and extending planning security. I would like to deal essentially with one point because Mr Zinggl has spoken about it. First of all, a clarification: Mr Zinggl, you spoke about a three-party request in connection with the “Museum Neu”. – That was a four-party request, and exactly the FPÖ was not there. That's how it was! In any case, we are in favour of this combination and believe that the concept is a very essential and a very innovative one in connection with a new museum facility, and in this way the independent perception is also very important for this house, which is why we support it. To something else you said, Mr. Zinggl, because “just let go of it. ” – I think the Minister gives many examples that she does not ‘run’ in culture. One example that we have addressed is the digitization at the Kinos programme – I also thank you from a distance at Sectionschefin Andrea Ecker, which has become an initiative. It is perfectly clear that the program cinemas cannot finance digitalization from their own pocket, that there is a colorful, powerful scene of the program cinemas, but that they alone cannot afford it. They need political and financial restraint, and the Minister has now proposed a co-financing model. I would only propose the following – unfortunately, Mr Fuhrmann is not here –: Minister Mitterlehner has a funding model for the “film location Austria”, which was launched on 1.7.2010, since there is still a lot of money, there is still something left. I believe that this would be an area in which the Minister could be asked to make money available in connection with this promotion for the digitisation of the programme kinos, because good films need not only be produced, but also shown and seen. I think that is also a task that fits in with this – the promotion even stands in the way of ensuring competitiveness – and the Minister makes a contribution to it. I think that would be something Minister Mitterlehner could "student" and then one could go through digitization. I now just take the smile as an approval: They'll do it to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26828	This is what Mr Prince has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26850	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The education and future of our children and young people is important to us. Minister of Finance Josef Pröll emphasizes this by providing additional funds in the coming years despite the necessary savings for education and science. Successful school policy needs the cooperation of all school partners. Teachers, parents and pupils must be involved in school policy accordingly. I think it would be useful to put more on the quality than on the pace. Most of the teachers do excellent work, for which he is to be thanked. Teachers, however, need the support of parents, for example in the motivation to read. Schools promote identity for children and parents. Mrs Bundesminister, I think it is important that you too work for the preservation of smaller schools! For me, the question is which number of students are high enough in schools and primary schools from your point of view, which you personally consider necessary so that these schools will remain in the future. School means preparing the children on the educational path for later life. For me, that means demanding performance, promoting the weaker accordingly, and demanding the strong. A great deal of attention must be paid to learning the German language. The German language in word and writing is the most important prerequisite for successful integration. Performance differentiation is necessary, regardless of whether in the primary school or in the lower level of the gymnasium. Students from primary schools are at least as well equipped for secondary schools as children who attend an AHS sub-level. Organisation and administration should be as close as possible to those concerned. It would therefore be useful to find ways for the future where the major educational decisions such as education objectives, learning content et cetera are decided at the federal level and the organisation of education is transferred to the countries. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Go, Nikolaus!]] Discussions, without taking a pre-adjustment stand, should make it possible to find common solutions here. Austria basically has a very good, transparent and useful education and training system. This must be done in order to make it efficient and to improve in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26899	Mrs Hakel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26921	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I myself come from a rural region and therefore know how important regional cultural promotion is, above all, also in the countryside. I'm glad she's safe in the next few years. Art and culture will not be a foreign word for rural areas in the future. We have heard a lot about the PISA study today, about its results, about the reading weakness of our youth – that was also a major topic in recent weeks. It is all the more important now that this is countered. Especially because I myself was a regular student in our small city library as a youth, I am particularly pleased that it has succeeded in maintaining the promotion of books and in creating a significant increase in resources. As a member of a regional district, one knows only too well how important such small educational institutions are. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The objectives of the new funding system are to strengthen the networking of libraries, to expand the media stock, but above all to strengthen the training and training of employees. This, in turn, makes sure that the books become more attractive and quality. This new regulation also makes it possible in less structural regions to provide visitors with a wide range of education. This is an important step towards education, an important step towards lower level of access and an important step towards emancipation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26964	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e26985	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As part of today’s debate on the budget chapter “Instruction, Art and Culture”, it appears that our Minister of Culture Schmied is a very reliable partner for very many artists and for cultural initiatives in this difficult times and that art and culture continue to have a very high priority. Their appreciation is also expressed in the budgetary appropriations, which amount to more than 430 million this year and have thus remained constant. This is also a very important prerequisite for many artists to be active at all and to be able to develop their talents. This is not a matter of course, however, because a view over the borders shows that it looks different in other European countries; you only have to read APA broadcasts and newspapers. The headlines say that “the artists in Great Britain, Spain or the Netherlands have to bleed”. In Spain 12.3 percent savings were made, in the UK even 15 percent. In the “standard” it was to be read that there were wild protests by artists against the high savings. Many important art and cultural projects, art and cultural concerns have already been discussed today, and the woman minister has also mentioned her priorities, which are in the cultural mediation, in the promotion of young people. It is particularly important to me that we continue to invest and continue to carry on construction projects, such as the 20th House, the Literary Museum and the Chamber of Art. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] Ms. Schmied will also contribute to the continued discussion in Austria of a progressive understanding of art and society with the budget available to her. Art reception leads to another, further open attitude to art, to the social environment and to life in itself. The very well-dominated art and cultural budget 2011, which lasts until 2014, continues to help ensure that art and culture remain alive, world-wide, critical, discursive and at the pulse of time in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27031	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27052	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! ==References====External links== December wrote that the budget for art and culture was relatively bright. With 0.2 percent minus it was de facto stable. I can say: Federal Minister Schmied's way to anchor art and culture widely in society can be continued. This also applies to the monument protection, which has not yet been discussed. In the protection of monuments, a constant 10 percent funding rate can continue. In particular, the new concept, the future strategy Bundesdenkmalamt 2013, stands for a modern way in the protection of monuments: a modern management, a dialogue with those concerned that is necessary – many examples show that; Tag “Hallstatt” – a service orientation and an efficient decentralised promotion process. We can only give massive support to a request made by Mrs Federal Minister Schmied: To ensure that monument protection is also widely accepted, monument protection investments should also be tax deductible. We, the SPÖ, will, of course, be very happy to support this request. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, however, I would like to express a concern relating to the country of Lower Austria, namely the concern for the World Heritage Site of Wachau. One of the most important elements of the World Heritage Site Wachau is the existence of the Donauperbahn, the Wachaubahn; a unique cultural structure, a unique route. Thousands of people have for their I've signed receipts. Unfortunately, the country of Lower Austria is different, it wants to stop this route. And if the operation no longer takes place on this route, it is probably not possible to obtain this route as a cultural heritage either. International experts fear that the World Heritage Diplom in the Wachau is generally at risk. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister, I may ask you – like another colleague in a different context: Together with us, act on the country of Lower Austria, that this world heritage is not threatened by the cessation of this culturally really interesting route!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27094	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27126	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We've heard it a few times today: The cultural budget has not been shortened. I also find this very encouraging. This will ensure that the state remains a reliable partner for the cultural and art initiatives. This is not a matter of course in times when economic tension prevails and one can often get the impression that art and culture are regarded as a saving factor number 1. If you can imagine 70 percent of the population in Amstetten most likely to save on art and culture, give faith, as was written in a boulevard newspaper, then I see a large area of activity for all of us in actually increasing the importance of art and culture among people in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this has something for me to do with education, with awareness-raising, with curiosity. I therefore very much welcome the fact that Mrs Minister's focus will continue to be clearly on cultural communication. A further step in this direction is certainly the free entry into the museums. The regional cultural initiatives are equally important to me, because they ensure that cultural and art activities can also be made possible in regional centres away from urban centres. If you look at the high quality of the festivals and cultural initiatives, you can see that it is paying off. I would like to thank you, on behalf of many cultural initiatives and associations in the countries, i.e. in the regions outside, for the great support from the Ministry of Culture and, above all, for the appreciation given by the Ministry to the associations and cultural initiatives, as I have always been confirmed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like this consensus in cultural policy for education policy, because I am really convinced that it is important for us to benefit from the opportunities for all children and that we cannot afford to lose only one child on the road to adult life. This also applies to children with disabilities. That is why I very much welcome the fact that the Federal Minister will also set up initiatives in this area. I really see the discussion about the common school as an opportunity for an inclusive school and I am willing to cooperate.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27165	There are no further statements of words on the chapter “Instruction, Art and Culture”. This is the subject that has been dealt with. [[17:09:29]] UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27187	We come to the negotiation of subheading 31: Science and research. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27211	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! I would like to make the following request at the beginning: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why am I making this request right at the beginning? – Because, like many others, the subject of medicine union shows what unstructured debate is in the field of science and with which deception maneuvers are diverted from the real topics that are interesting in science. Another is the whole story around the Bachelor. – Mrs Federal Minister, you may remember, in a questionable hour here in plenary, I asked you what this really looks like with fullness and with the difference between Bachelor and Master. You have answered me that for you, about as before, according to the old study plan, this is the difference between the Magister and the Doctor. Now – and I think you have a bit of idea as to how the legal faculty works – at that time the difference was in a handful of examinations. The difference between Bachelor and Master at least in the field of technology is that the first section, which concludes with “Bachelor” and is supposed to be a full section, is a full 180-ECTS section and the second section is a 120-ECTS section. So the second section is two thirds of the first, and that, please, is no longer “a handful of tests ” or a small one. This shows quite exactly that there is only teasing and deception and that they are talked about on real topics. One can really say that the propaganda roll of the ÖVP on this topic is going very well. Wide majority for new tuition fees! – So the tuition fees are so uninteresting in the whole area, because they are about the financial situation of the universities and not about any detail. Let's take a look at what's going on. – Costs and salaries of university management would have to be evaluated and investigated once. There is no university rector who deserves less than a minister. Does that really have to be? As with the other administrative burden, it is also possible to look closely. The Medical Unions have fewer students in recent years, but more administrative burden. - Funny, Mrs. Minister, isn't it? You might as well intervene. Or look at the side activities of the university staff! There are, in fact, contractual regulations for teaching obligations, attendance, holding the colloquia. – Do they really have to do that? Is that questioning? Or do they, like primary doctors, also have their adjuncts who keep them from their original activity? Next: Online studies. – The University in Linz is always referred to as Ludwig Scharinger University – unjustly. But that already makes sense. Mr. Scharinger, at the New Year's reception, sent Mr. Rektor what he imagined: He may still finance a university building, but certainly no parking space anymore, because there is now enough electronics and computer, even on the JKU, and he expects the university to expand it. What did Mr. Rektor do? – This has worked, he is expanding the whole thing! Mr. Minister, do this at all universities! That's a very easy thing to do. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What's wrong with IT expansion?]] – There's nothing wrong with IT development, you got me wrong. I want online studies to be introduced at all universities and similar to FernUni Hagen. This can be enforced by the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oh so, all universities at Scharinger universities!]] – No, no, this name is sometimes used by the students. But he is not wrong either; he may be wrong in content, but not from the point of view. Let's go on! Evaluation of the activity of the university staff. – Every good company stands on customer feedback, the universities do not need it. The student-gfrasters – as it is so beautiful – should do what we want, and the professors are working ahead of themselves. It really can't be! If we really do something in the field of universities, then we do what is also common in the economy, namely a product cleaning and then a site cleaning! Let's see what courses of study have been newly established at universities in recent years, for example at the Economic Union. Mr Badelt makes economic law, economic information, and then he complains that he has a full house with students. - It can't be. There is information technology, and there is a right, we really do not need to reinvent these two fields of study at the WU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If all these measures are implemented, then we can still talk about the study site-related funding. However, if this is implemented, we do not want to talk about access restrictions, and we do not want to talk about tuition fees, because if there is the first one, we can give up on the second. If all the measures have been carried out in detail, then there is no longer any need for these few million people to be brought in over tuition fees, which is to say that you are hiding how much you would really get, then it can be avoided. Please, Mrs Minister, make sure that we can finance 300 000 students in Austria as a goal and as a financial implementation measure! It is always said that we have too few academics that we have too few graduates. Today we have 270 000; last year it was perhaps 260 000; it will be because then birthless years come again, never be 300 000, but we have a problem forever. Make sure you get the funding! On this occasion another small thing: Take your reserves – 310 million you have said – and take the other money you receive – for example, the €500 000 you have taken for your MINT offensive – and make sure you are financing! Another little thing about the students or students, as they are now called: Jus can be made in ten semesters, if you want to become a minister, agriculture can be made in twelve semesters, then you are already withdrawn from the Median 13 to 15 semesters, only in the technical subjects and in the MINT subjects, as it is now so beautiful. Now you're expecting! HTL – 19 years, plus seven years for an MINT subject, then we are at 26 years of age. And you'll turn off the child allowance from 24 onwards?- Oh, my God! These are not the measures we are considering. Although they only powder €500 000 in advertising volume, they do not make sure that in the MINT subjects, in mechanical engineering, in electrical engineering, in mathematics, in computer science and so on, the students also really have a place. – That’s not how we imagine science policy. Please, change that! In any case, we reject your measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27293	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27320	A very pointed speech, Mr colleague, which I would like to support in some respects in some respects, namely, in the basic principle that we also want universities that do not feel disturbed by students and a policy that young people want to support if they want to have a good education. I hope that, despite Sparbudget, we will be able to put signals in this direction in the next few years. Thankfully, there is €80 million more than originally foreseen in this budget for universities, which are mainly intended to improve teaching, to be used in teaching, to improve the study situation, especially the students in the so-called mass subjects – I prefer to speak of the “most popular” subjects that most students prove – whose graduates we need more. In other words, it is very important not only to speak of access regulations, of access restrictions, but also to consider – you have rightly mentioned this –: Can't you increase the capacity by using online offers more effectively? to develop more imagination, how to expand and improve the offer. In this respect, these funds are also important and properly used for the expansion of specialist universities – a very, very important offer in the tertiary sector, lower than the universities, more professionally oriented, more professionally-accompanied, very important. Therefore, I support the fact that some of these additional €80 million should go into the expansion of the technical universities I consider urgent and important. It is also important to me that funds are made available to those institutions that are deprived of basic funding, non-university research institutes, in order to capture and support them. There are many among them who do valuable work. It is important to support them so that they can continue their work, this important scientific work. Another important point is that it will also be possible for the FWF to take over overhead costs as part of its research funding. We know, of course, and share this assessment by far, that universities need more resources than we can make available in this budget. Es here again and again how much this is supposed to be a mix of public and private resources. I would also like to confess here on behalf of the Social Democracy that we want to equip universities, the education sector well from public resources. There are great tasks ahead of you over the next few years, Mrs Federal Minister, in order to be able to make these decisions on the appropriate basis. The higher education plan will be a very crucial and important project in order to provide the really subject-oriented basis for these decisions. The preparation of university funding and the transition to this model of financing of universities are also one of the very, very big challenges of the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27369	Mr Dipl.-Ing. The motion for a resolution tabled by Deimek is under negotiation. I would add that a nameable vote has also been requested on this subject. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27427	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27448	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The fatale in the current debate is that the Federal Government has succeeded in reducing the entire tertiary education and research sector to the issues of admission and tuition fees. I think this is a disaster, because it conceals a lot of what is to be criticised for failure and what would be necessary for the future. If double maturas and graduations are still in place in Germany and the abolition of compulsory military service is welcomed with enthusiasm, I have to ask myself: Have the education politicians slept in recent years? The fact that these double matura vintages are coming has been known for years to abolish military service is known. - You didn't respond. What remains unanswered is that not tuition fees and admission restrictions are the central problems, but the sharp sub-financing of universities confirmed by international studies. If the care conditions are such that they are not to be compared with our neighbouring countries when politics has observed that every year the Maturant Councils want to thank God, rise, push more at the university each year, and then you have to respond, and these reactions have not occurred. Even at EU level, you were essentially inactive. I just remember that the ECJ just suspended its judgment. It's still ahead of us. This can be reactivated again, and I actually do not know what happened in the meantime. In other words, there is a lot of distraction, you put your hands in the lap and you play the surprises: Help, help! The students come, we don't know what to do! It was repeatedly argued that one student's head is spent so much. I recall that Rector Skalicky, who has been in charge of the rector's conference for years, has calculated what a student at TU Vienna, ETH Zurich, Lausanne, Munich, I believe, and Stuttgart costs. His very simple and easy-to-understand sentence at the time was: They have the same budget, we in Schilling and those in Franks. If you now calculate, each student is currently spending two to three times more than Austria. I don't actually hear a reply to that either. We experience Ho-ruck actions and fire brigades. What I miss is a sustainable strategy to say once: How many students should Austria have? Do we want to achieve the European cut, the OECD cut, or do we want to continue to follow suit? Now, when you talk about elite institutes, I don't mind. That's good, and they should also be at the university. But Elite grows on the widest possible width, which is clear, purely statistical. That should be so, and it won't be useful if we have three elite institutes and then tens of thousands of students don't get a place at the university. I think it should be possible both. The Greens have presented alternative financing models to the Minister for Finance. Similar models come from WIFO and many others. But they fail to see how much investment in education will bring to the state of Austria. This is the factor 3: The cost of transfer services is at least three times the cost of the state, and the economy is pleased about it. The Industrial Union also says: We need more students. Research and tertiary education need more money. What already irritates me is that everything is being so skinned and fooled now, for example, when I hear now, there are offensive programs. Rectors and others say that there is no 1 billion €. Then give the universities 80 million € and explain this to the offensive program. - So I don't understand the terms anymore. In any case, I understand something else under an offensive. What still irritates me – this is also a question of education; now I do not criticize you, but some others –: There seems to be a great ignorance of what resources and the environment need teaching and research to promote truly creative young people, creative young people in science. There's no idea, I think. This doesn't work to turn here on a screw and there on a screw, to buy and believe some legionaries from abroad, then it snows the Nobel prizewinners like Manna from heaven. This once existed in the Bible, but not in our policy. Now to some weaknesses. They have also said about non-university institutes in the answer to the question that all will delete the basic financing. Allen! But some could stay at the university. – What I miss is the answer to the question: Is that what they want? Don't they miss any freedom? Do the universities have the money to accommodate them at all, to grant them asylum, shelter? And how does this change their working conditions? You have not mentioned that the research funds in Austria per capita, now equalized to the population, compared with Switzerland and Germany, do not even have a third of the funds available. Now I come to study advice. There are often such quick shots: We now all advise, and then the confidence of meeting is increased. – For the success of the choice of studies, the basis must be laid at the latest at the upper level, through a module system where inclinations and interests, when meeting with talents, are promoted, all the better, in order to achieve something. You write, now about 20.25 percent will advise, but it should be advised 100 percent. And then there's: Financial consequence: null. Now I'm wondering, Did you ask yourself how many institutions there are? It lists the WIFO, the AMS, the ÖH and some information centres at the Unis. A colleague of mine – an active student, at the “unburnt” movement, I hope it doesn’t bother you, very active, very vif – studies politics and development cooperation, goes to the AMS and can be consulted. What's going on? She's supposed to be a theologian; second choice: Pastoral assistant. So I have to say if you put that on, please, no! As for the restrictions on admission you have repeatedly referred to – I stop immediately, Zinggl is looking at me a bit punishing – say All of them are so dirty: with extraordinary stress, with superfluous student flows. That is, the vague is here and the precision is missing. It remains so much room to interpret that, in my opinion, the law will not keep or arbitrary door and gate is open. Finally, I would like to have a dialogue where we all take all of us seriously, weighting the arguments and also changing locations, like me, and getting the better arguments. But I would ask you not to completely ignore international facts and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27534	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27555	Mr President! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Austrian Federal Government has addressed the 2011 budget design with the aim of securing the future. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But you don't notice anything about this!]] The success of policy can be seen in the preview, but also in the results – and the results of recent years in higher education can be seen. In the period from 2005 to 2009, the university budget increased by 25 percent from 2.1 billion to 2.6 billion euros. In these four years, the number of students also grew by 26 percent. In 2005 six out of ten students completed their studies positively, and in 2009 it was already eight out of ten. The number of studies also increased by 30 percent. All of this worked with study contributions. Study contributions therefore do not hinder the study, but simply regulate capacity planning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must not, however, be content with these increases in the coming years. There are major reform projects ahead of us in the coming months. Mr Grünewald referred to the international dialogue and examples from abroad and from the Science Community. I welcome the fact that you are taking this step, because Austria is surrounded by countries that take up study contributions that have clear access arrangements that plan their capacities. That's exactly what we want for Austria now. We need a clear study entry phase, we need transparency in the admission criteria, we need an internationally appropriate private contribution to the study costs. We have exceptionally high-quality trainings, for example at our art universities. But why do third-country students who are not socially in need not pay for this high-quality offer? This is no longer acceptable internationally. Our universities have a value, and this value should also be expressed accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The development of study space-related funding is a very important step in the coming months. Hiezu has also been commissioned by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. The results will soon be available; they will form the basis for an important development of the financing model, which is also set out in the Coalition Agreement and which has already proved to be well established in recent years at the technical colleges. We want to make this possible for the universities as well. The universities have reliability by 2012, which is not often enough to emphasize. It is therefore particularly important in the coming Mona to negotiate this reliability for 2013 and subsequent years and to ensure the corresponding budgets. I can quite imagine a reform of the hacker scheme, but there are several ways of ensuring the budget together. But we have to find something, Mrs Kuntzl, because just to say we want more is too little. We need to agree together whether we are changing or finding access arrangements, whether we are reintroducing the study contributions. The latter, I think, is urgently necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The universities will receive more money from the offensive funds in the next few years, but now they also need reliable framework conditions to be able to plan. You need to know in the short, medium and long term how many students they have, for how many students they need to provide audiences and how many teachers they need for the number of students. This planning is not yet available, so we need a common approach in the coalition over the next few months in order to make this planningability, as we have already created at the colleges, for the universities as well. This is an international State of the Art, which provides an international opportunity for our universities to present themselves with their quality. If we secure the competitiveness of our universities, we will give them the opportunity to position ourselves internationally!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27611	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27632	Mr President. High house! Of course, one can speak beautifully of the science and research area in Austria. It can also be said that there are increases in expenditure, but the fact is that the demand is oriented towards what is really needed – and there is a huge lack of science in the back and front. One problem is hunting the other. We have a strategy problem and we have a structural problem. Very short, in Staccato style: Where is the FTI strategy announced for years? Where is the university plan that has long been promised? Where is the concentration of competences in a ministry rather than fragmented to four? Where are the evaluation of research and development promotion and the appropriate implementation measures, the grouping? Where is the promised research promotion law in order to secure basic research in the medium and long term? Where, for example, is the research premium and the tax system to attract SMEs to the benefit and benefit of research funding? – It is far and wide nowhere to see anything of it. The universities really have a financing problem. And don't say they have 80 million more! You have a de facto 15 million less, you know that very well. With the Federal Financial Framework Act, you've cleared out 95 million, and now you're giving them 80 back. The difference is minus 15, which is quite easy to calculate. In addition, the study fees have also been abolished. The united left block of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens abolished the tuition fees – thus abolishing a source of funding of €157 million per year. The colleague from the ÖVP has said that the tuition fees are in themselves nothing bad, there are all around them. Why, do you think, is the new German wave coming to us? Why, do you think, do 17 000 new students from Bavaria soon stand in front of the gates of the universities of Innsbruck, Salzburg or Linz? – Because there are no tuition fees with us and in Bavaria already! So simple is the world. Therefore, tuition fees of €500 should be reintroduced, which is moderate, which is acceptable if you also socially compare them with corresponding study grants. However, registration fees should also be introduced, such as they are going on across Europe and the world and are available to further increase the funding, for example, € 5 000. Those who have completed a matura or equivalent degree in Austria are to be recovered through the Uni-Bonus – that is the BZÖ model. And those who come from abroad and study here – after that I come back – have to pay for it and do it. Another step would be the introduction of study entrance phases instead of Knock-out examinations, where you can orient yourself and where it is determined whether the student performance is appropriate and the study has also been properly chosen. This too would make sense and is already made in approaches. But now to the students from abroad. 330 000 are studying, 70 000 are from abroad, 17 000 are added each year. If you would only ask for these 17 000 subscription fees of € 5 000, you will come up to about 90 million that you could please. If you were to introduce tuition fees for 330 000 students, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, the situation would look that way, it is very easy to calculate: 500 per semester are 1 000 per year; 330 000 times 1 000 results in €330 million of additional funding, with which one can easily finance corresponding study grants and also ensure the basic financing of the universities. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: That's not true at all!]] You only want to distribute from the cradle to the Bahre, but you don't want to have a state of service, you don't want the universities to be properly equipped. This is the dilemma of the FPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: 70, if you want, 75 million! It won't be at twice 500 per semester!]] That is why FPÖ is also responsible for having bad study conditions and that we are flooded at the universities of foreigners instead of first looking at the Austrians and creating them for these good conditions. This is the dilemma of the FPÖ: to talk and act differently. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: What 330 000 students pay if we don't even have 300 000?]] – Mr Deimek, you are talking about €500 000 spent completely missing for MINT listings. That was my topic, I asked the committee, you replicate right. I will give you another topic on which you can also replicate on the part of FPÖ in the future: In the field of scholarships, we spend around 40 percent on foreigners – with a quota of not even 20 percent of foreign students in the country, which by the way is far higher because the OECD section is around 8 percent. I'm asking you: Is that correct, or don't we prefer to make sure that the scholarships get the Austrians mostly once? – In other words, the government needs a lot of action here too. I have already mentioned the new German wave. We are still waiting for a regulation, and it does not matter whether it is a short-term quota scheme, whether it is compensatory payments between countries, such as the Nordic States, or whether we are reintroducing the country of origin principle. In the medium term, however, I ask this government to regulate this issue across Europe, because it cannot be that a few countries have to pay for the training of Europe as it is currently in Austria. Every fourth first-scribing person in Austria is already from abroad. This is an intolerable state. Therefore, if this ping pong game continues between ÖVP and SPÖ, we expect an unregulated student tsunami from Germany already in the next autumn. Just so you also know what the Council for Research and Technology Development says in a very up-to-date paper, a kind of mission statement: In order to finance the university, there was a need for a replenishment of €1.5 billion. – In other words, you have to spend €80 million for 20 years in order to cover the need for follow-up. The university sector and the research and development area are thus a major construction site. I therefore make two requests to amend them accordingly. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is nothing but the implementation of the government programme, so please take your own word in your written statement. The second request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science and Research, is invited to forward to the National Council a draft law covering: a ‘UNI bonus’ equivalent of € 5 000 for each student and every student who exists in Austria or has a positive study of the degree; introduction of a registration fee at all Austrian universities and colleges amounting to € 5 000; implementation of a study entry phase of two semesters, at the end of which, in the form of an overall assessment of all the services provided at that time, the students/students are suitable for the desired degree; immediate disbursement of targeted emergency funding to universities of at least € 250 million for 2011 (as part of a university billion over the next four years) in order to eliminate acute human and infrastructure deficiencies; Re-introduction of study fees of € 500 per semester.’ The aim is to put funding on order, as should be the custom of internationally oriented study systems. Create Finally, they are the structural and financial conditions at the university in Austria! It's high time the university was still burning.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27726	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27902	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27923	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with something positive about the 2011 draft budget. It has already been pointed out that there will be an additional €80 million annually for universities and technical universities from 2011 onwards. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do you really have to listen to this again?- Oh, my God!]] I should like to take a brief look at the areas in which this €80 million will be invested from 2011 onwards. On the one hand, it is about more quality in teaching and thus the improvement of study conditions especially in the mass subjects, with a focus on the so-called MINT subjects – mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and technology. In order to also count this: It is planned that €20 million will be spent annually over the next two years. It has already been pointed out by Mr Deimek that an opportunity to ensure more quality in teaching offers e-learning. Yes, of course, such measures will also be used – I assume. Of course, I can't guarantee that there is a Ludwig Scharinger at every university, but I think there will be additional e-learning offers for many universities. These measures were also taken in the course of the last package for the improvement of teaching of €34 million. Quality in research and teaching is, of course, very important for universities. That is why I would like to stick briefly to this point. In order to ensure quality in teaching and research, it was also agreed at the budget clause in Loipersdorf that there should be a regulation of access in the mass compartments, quickly. – It has already been pointed out that rapid solutions are needed. However, it was also agreed at the subsequent University Summit that there should be a study place funding from 2013. Of course, we are also working hard on this, and we really want to clarify how many places of study are financed at what level. I would also like to refer directly to the comments made by you, Mr Greenewald, because, in connection with the quality of teaching and the admission of German students, you have also referred to the procedure before the European Commission and have meant that the European Commission has merely suspended the procedure. This procedure was concerned with the quota system at the medical universities. In this respect, there has now been another ECJ judgment, namely the judgment in the Bressol case. Of course, this judgment also has an impact on our quota system, because our argument, namely that the quota system is necessary to ensure health care in Austria, has been recognised. I do not think that such a quota scheme should be introduced into other subjects of study, because it will be difficult to maintain this argument, for example, in the field of publicity. That is why I think it is more effective to try to return to the model of the country of origin outside the medical community. In this respect, I also have discussions at European level. I have already had a discussion with the Commissioner responsible, including Mr Schavan from Germany, who has given me her support. Mr Grünewald also mentioned that, after the last OECD study "Education at a Glance", it was quite clear that academics and academics, of course, mean an added value for society – that is beyond doubt. That is why I am also in favour of expanding the academic rate in Austria. Only for the sake of completeness: The OECD also repeatedly recommends increased private participation in addition to public funding for universities. But now let me come back to my real topic, for which the €80 million will be used. In addition to improving the study conditions, they are used to ensure the integration of excellent institutions of non-university research in universities and also in the Academy of Sciences, or to promote cooperation between universities, but also between universities and the economy. For this, €12 million is made available annually. Another measure that has already been addressed is the expansion of the technical colleges, which supports around €10 million annually. It will also be invested in the re-start of university overhead funding in the context of research funding by the FWF – a long-term demand of universities and also of the FWF. For this, we spend around €12 million a year. Finally, more than € 140 million will be made available for the implementation of the higher education plan from 2013. You see, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, science and research are clear priorities of government work and therefore can also be found in the budget. The draft budget estimate submitted by the Federal Government for 2011 provides for the breakdown of 31 science and research, a total expenditure framework of around €3.8 billion. Of course, the science community, although considered a future resort, must also make its contribution to consolidation, which is perfectly clear. It was important to me to keep the cornerstones of the department really outside and to ensure that these cornerstones of the science unit are not attacked. What are these cornerstones? These are the universities, the specialized universities, the FWF, the Science Fund, the Academy of Sciences, the Ludwig Boltzmann Society, the IST-Austria and the Studienförderung. These areas have some positive effects, but at least there are no savings, so they have been completely excluded from consolidation measures. On the contrary, we signed a reliable package for universities in 2009, in the form of service agreements. The universities have around € 2.8 billion at their disposal in 2011, and € 2.7 billion in 2010. I would like to stress the following: The university budget is secured for 2011 and 2012; it is not involved. The technical universities receive €235 million in 2011, which is about €20 million more than in 2010, without the contribution from €80 million of offensive funds. The FWF is also available in 2011 at around €160 million. In addition, the overhead financing of approximately €12 million is also available in the maximum expansion. For the large non-university research institutions, in particular the Academy of Sciences, the IST-Austria and the Ludwig Boltzmann-Gesellschaft, around 115 million € will be made available in 2011. An amount of € 218 million will be made available for the funding of studies in 2011. As I said, these are the areas where we have some positive results or at least consistent budgets. But of course – I have already mentioned it – I also have to make a contribution to consolidation in my area. There were also some painful cuts in my resort and, you can believe, such a thing is of course not pleasant; however, such cuts were necessary. I would first of all like to address the funding of the non-university research institutions because they have already been the subject today and because, of course, this removal of the basic financing instrument was indeed a painful intervention even in years of habit. I tell you quite honestly, it is partly adventurous, which has been financed by the state under the heading of basic funding in recent years – partly excellent institutions, but partly also institutions that do not have much to do with science and research. My aim was to change to a new funding of non-university research institutions and really to finance those institutions that are very good, where very good services are provided in the field of non-university research. That is why there has been a reorganisation of the research landscape and, in this context, a real restructuring that has in fact been thought of for a long time and has also been recommended by many, such as the Science Council, the Research Council or the Court of Auditors. It is also necessary to see here – and this has always been mentioned in various studies – that in Austria the non-university research landscape is very small and very fragmented. Therefore, it was repeatedly recommended to pool these non-university research institutions more closely than before, thereby also achieving greater international visibility and also strengthening interdisciplinaryity and transdisciplinarity. It was also about strengthening the robustness of the scientific system. We have therefore put the promotion of non-university research institutions on completely new legs and have developed a three-pillar model that I would like to introduce to you briefly. This three-pillar model replaces the basic funding developed in 1970. The first pillar is the integration of non-university research institutions into universities. To this end, Mr Greenewald asked whether these institutions and universities wanted to do so at all. I give you absolutely right, of course, this is a very central question. Such integrations, such cooperations, can of course not be ordered from above, such something cannot work. Research on order or research on instructions, I don't think so. That is why we have, of course, also had discussions with the research institutions and with the universities, and only where it has been desired and recognized as meaningful by both sides does such integration actually occur. We are already very advanced in the discussions. Some of these integrations in universities are already in progress, others will have further discussions, but overall, these discussions are actually very good and the university's willingness to attend is there. – Of course, these non-university research institutions also receive money; that is what I would like to say. It is not the case, therefore, that these institutions go to the university without money, but of course the necessary financial resources are also negotiated, which is quite clear. The second pillar is project security in the field of non-university research institutions of human, social and cultural sciences. This is about the fact that the non-university research institutions in these areas are really very good at recruiting EU funds. Around 75 percent of EU funds are advertised, so they are very successful. Of course, we want to continue to ensure this success. This is why the Ministry of Science grants with effect from 1 January. January 2011 financial support for participation in approved projects in 7. EU Framework Programme. In other words, there is part-financing of project costs so that third-party funds can be really acquired and the return flows are still ensured. The third pillar is the strengthening of the research infrastructure in the field of humanities, social and cultural sciences. In other words, this is particularly about institutions in the field of archiving and documentation of contemporary materials. We want to create a new rail to promote infrastructure in the fields of human, social and cultural sciences. It is also a matter of better networking. It will be a virtual network in the first step, but also a better accessibility is essential to create an important prerequisite for a broad scientific interdisciplinary exchange. I have referred to this in relation to the first pillar, but of course there are also discussions with all the other institutions that fall into the second or third pillar. These discussions are very constructive, and it is really trying to find solutions with the individual institutions with which they can live well. So there are discussions and, as I said, there are financial resources for this. Overall, I would like to say that in our university landscape everything is not bad and that even at the universities everything is not bad. In the speeches of the MEPs, the universities were construction sites that they were bad. I can only ask you to look more closely at this. [[Abg. May. Widmann: €1.5 billion is missing!]] A lot of great things happen at our universities. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Still!]] Of course, we also have problem areas to deal with. I am very happy to accept these challenges. But don't forget that our universities also do great things in the field of teaching and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e27995	Before I give the floor to Mrs Silhavy, I can very much welcome a guest from Israel, the Deputy Minister for the Development of Negev and Galilee, Mr Ayub Kara, who is also Deputy Speaker of the Knesset. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28025	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear guests! We have an important discussion on an Austrian and also international topic of the future, namely science. Mrs Bundesminister, it is very gratifying that all the savings measures that need to be taken have succeeded in leaving the core competences of the resort without significant cuts. However, I would also like to refer, above all, to the comments made by Mr Cortolezis-Schlager, who repeatedly raise tuition fees as one of her very essential subjects. [[Abg. May. Widmann: The Voves too!]] I can remind you that in the UG we have created a replacement for the abolition of study fees, i.e. €157 million, ladies and gentlemen. You'd have to answer that, my colleague. You didn't do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. List.]] You always count as it fits you, and that can't work completely, because at the end of the day, what actually remains counts. [[Abg. Grosz: What does Colleague Silhavy do?]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I think it is also very important what you yourself have mentioned, that it has succeeded in winning €80 million in addition. After all, you've made a few priorities. I am very pleased that there are €10 million for the colleges. There were already the necessary places of study, which are necessary, calculated. Now, these places of study can actually be implemented with this money. It also seems important to me that it has succeeded in including these university overhead costs in financing. That was always an important point of discussion. However, I would also like to mention a advertising drop here, namely the € 144 million to be saved for the upcoming performance agreements from 2013. I think that is already a point you need to discuss. Essentially, I believe that this is a point that is coming again and again, and you have also said that in the Committee, socially just study promotion systems. I would really like to discuss a model, because with the different income concepts we have, and with the different possibilities of design, I would really be interested in how a model of just study promotion systems should look at at all. I am already very excited about the discussion on the higher education plan. You promised us a study on the funding of the study sites – already in February of this year. I think there's a piece of the next piece. It's a bit like a puzzle, you have to say fairly, because the pieces stop very different in the sequence of time, but it's a step in the right direction. What seems even more important to me is the following: They have addressed the women's promotion programmes, not now, but in the Committee. The maintenance of these women's promotion programmes seems very important to me, particularly in the research field, so that we can finally reach the appropriate quota. I hope that the FFORTE programmes will at least continue completely in your area. I can congratulate you and the ministry as a whole on the gender monitoring history, which is also available on the homepage. If you look at the glass ceiling index that can be accessed via uni:data, however, we see that we still have quite a lot to do and move in this area. I hope that, with this budget, we will re-establish these points where there are no cuts, namely in the promotion of women and in the gender sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28081	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28103	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I should like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, our President: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the first motion for a resolution is concerned. On the second issue, which is also the subject of a motion for a resolution. It is about the problem, as I have already mentioned – Mr Widmann – the three years of study from the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular from the neighbouring country, the Free State of Bavaria. You said, Mrs Minister, that the country of origin principle – you can also say international law: the principle of reciprocity – would be used. It is said that those who meet the conditions in the home country are also allowed to study with us. This means that the classical Numerus-claus refugee cannot study in Austria. That's a bold announcement, but the only one right. We would support you, also with regard to the EU, if there were to be problems. We do not think that the quota system, which the Federal Chancellor suggested, is optimal, because in the end the quota would be at the expense of the Austrian students. We don't want to. Country of origin, principle of reciprocity, we have already done this before – with success. You can remember: After the sham, there were the sham adoptions, because only in Austria – in addition to the Netherlands – the adoption of adults was possible. It has been suggested that an adult adoption is only valid in Austria if there is an adult adoption in the home country of the person concerned. With this decision, all the problems, including in the commercial sector, were suddenly gone in corporate law. There are many areas where this principle of reciprocity is laid down in international law. We believe that this is the only sensible measure. Therefore, we make the following request: Resolution Deputies Dr. Graf, Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, Dr. Rosenkranz, Dr. Winter, Dr. Karlsböck and other Members of Parliament on the principle of the country of origin The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template with the tertiary education sector, in order to protect the Austrian university. location, which is based on the ‘income country principle’ in relation to non-Austrian students.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28190	Both motions for resolutions are under negotiation, with the last motion for a resolution being put to the vote. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28297	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28319	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Mrs Minister, I should like to congratulate you in advance on the fact that, despite this consolidation budget, there has not been any cuts, no cuts in the university sector. On the contrary! 80 million € of offensive measures for universities should be used to improve the study conditions in the mass subjects or to expand the technical colleges. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Do you really believe this?]] Despite this difficult financial situation, our Federal Government is investing in the future of the scientific and research location Austria. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been mentioned: There is still a lot to do, much to do. We need more money for the universities. We have to go new ways, perhaps different ways again, but a part of it is of course that without a financial contribution from the students, it simply will not go. I am also thinking about the SPÖ, especially in the countries, which I am very pleased with. In Tyrol, in particular, we have the problem – and this has already been mentioned – that we have enormous pressure from our northern neighboring country. On the one hand, these students want to avoid the fees; on the other hand, because of the Numerus clausus, they do not find a study place in their home country. We have an urgent, acute need for action, but I am sure that we have the majority of the population on our side. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we in our country have a balanced relationship between basic research on the one hand and applied research on the other. This mix is given in Austria. At this point I want to break a lance for our international head companies, because they are often used by some here in the house when it comes to the big, against the corporations that only have their headquarters here, because they are the true innovation carriers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I can now give you a few figures. The 29 most research-intensive leading companies invest €2.4 billion annually in research and development. This is a third of the total R&D expenditure in Austria. 29 farms are these. 85 percent of these key companies regularly cooperate with universities and non-university research institutions. Even last year, the 2009 crisis year, when these companies had to partially reduce their sales in the double-digit percentage range, the high level of research investment was largely maintained. R&D funding by the public sector produces enormous multiplier effects in the economy. Recent data show how important the further development of research funding in Austria is now. Here it is an important signal from the Federal Government to increase the research premium from 8 to 10 percent. Entrepreneurial R&D expenditure on key enterprises, in turn, has significant positive effects on value added and jobs in the companies themselves but also throughout the economy. For example, € 1 million in additional R&D funding from control companies will generate additional 132 in part highly qualified jobs, € 14 million in production, € 9 million in value added and € 3 million in taxes and taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, you should always have these figures in mind when we discuss the future of the Austrian scientific and research location, as well as the headquarters policy, or are insulted by the opposition. We spend a lot of money on science and research, but we also want more science and research for this money. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28361	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28383	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Yes, if you repeat a little long enough, you already believe it yourself. That's a psychological nature of man, isn't it? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Widmann.]] So these amazing €80 million offensive measures – you know very well that this has been achieved through a shift within the federal financial framework. If you first shorten something against the old financial framework and correct it afterwards, you sell it as an offensive measure. Next time, I suggest that you cut the budget by €300 million compared to the old federal financial framework in spring, which will be corrected in the autumn in the budget – Zack, you have an offensive programme of 300 million! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Wonderful, yeah?- Oh, my God! You can move that up anytime. Look You're looking at the whole financial framework! Look Just look at the 2011 budget for UG 31, which we are talking about today! There is no talk of 80 million plus, at least half of it plus for 2011. But how does it look until 2014? – Already the 2011 increase does not cover the inflation rate. This means that expenditure on science and research in this field is falling real. That's reality. Until 2014, we are talking about nominally constant numbers. Oh, my God, that's your expansion program? So you take into account the increasing numbers of students? - Please! Ms Minister, as regards non-university research institutions: You are now selling this as a well-planned reform project. I can remind you already that five or six weeks ago – a maximum of this – you wrote this letter to all these research institutes, which are not within the universities in which all are announced to the Council, starting from 1. Yes, you're pleading. That was the planning at the time, and since then you've been rowing back. Thank God you row back! I wish you luck. But how you can come to the idea from the very beginning that institutions such as the IWM or the IFK or, for example, the Erwin Schrödinger Institute do not consider an x-any Boltzmann Institute to be equivalent, you owe this statement to us to this day! I am absolutely convinced that the institutes of Boltzmann Society are doing good work. But you have taken these out of the evaluation, which still receive as much money as before. Only the others come to the handcushion. It's all right to stop the casting pot principle once, but not in this way. They were panicked five weeks ago. They had to cancel all the people. These are associations, because the Board of Directors is responsible in every respect. - All right. So I wish you luck. But now to the budget. Who was talking about the ÖVP earlier? Mr Lettenbichler, I believe. Balanced relationship between applied research and basic research? Read the last documentation of the Academy of Sciences! At the F&E quota we are close to the desired 3 percent. That is true, that is essentially the applied research. In basic research, we are miles away from the international objective, 1 percent of GDP. There can be no talk of that at all. And with regard to the 2% of GDP for universities or the tertiary sector as a whole, including colleges, where do we stand today? – 1.3 percent. Good. How much is the difference in millions of euros to 2% of GDP? – After about €2 billion a year additional – not the €80 million you claim now, the €40 million that it is actually not even, but €2 billion. We need a path there, and you refuse it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you look at the structure of the federal budget – the Wifo has made a very remarkable small analysis – then expenditure in subgroups 22 and 23 – these are pensions including officials – from 23.5 to 27.7 percent from 2010 to 2014 – is more than a quarter of the total budget! – while all expenditure in the field of education, science, research – 30, 31, 33, 34 – falls in share in the budget by 2014. This is your future planning. If – in a nightmare – the same government makes the same financial framework for 2014 to 2018 with the same spending trends, then in 2018 we have in the budget twice as much expenditure on pensions as for the entire teaching, science, research area – supposedly the future of this country. I believe that you are of the opinion that I hear every Sunday's speech about the importance of these future expenditures. And how does reality look? – It's going somewhere else! They have no priorities in the field of education, science and research. If you had it, you would have had to take other measures in this 2011 budget and especially in the Federal Financial Framework by 2014.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28474	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28495	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate guests! As some of my previous speakers have already said, we have been able to provide moderate increases in the science budget despite savings measures. I am very consciously using the word ‘moderate’ here because we would of course have wanted to have much more resources for offensive action in this important future area. However, €80 million plus science is a good first step, as I believe, but in the future it will have to follow, so that the framework conditions for students and teachers improve, because we know of course that there are some catastrophic conditions at the main university in Vienna, but also at the WU. I would also like to speak briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Van der Bellen. As far as I know, my colleague, you are a university representative of the city of Vienna. I think that in this function you can make a positive contribution to improving the situation at the universities as soon as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Vienna is supposed to spend what the Federation has failed?! Great! It would be nice!]] I would have to make a second comment. They said that from 2011 onwards, the universities lacked €300 million. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously stated that the universities will receive €80 million in 2011. Now I would like to learn who of you is right. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The minister speaks of 250 million! Where are they?]] But you could then take the floor a second time, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Just read the budget! Then you know!]] In view of the short speaking time, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly address some of the existing issues. We know that, in international comparison, we have too few students that two and a half times more children from academic families attend universities than children from remote shifts. It is also known that there are still too few transfer rates from the AHS to the university. The situation of students does not necessarily improve, but – on the contrary! – it worsens noticeably. I also have a personal concern that as soon as possible we will receive a joint training of all educators at university level. I think these points I mentioned earlier are already enough challenges for the next present and future. I see very positive – the Minister has mentioned it – that the technical universities already get €10 million more in 2011. The specialized universities are a success story in Austria. I only mention that, according to a study by the IHS, published in the “Kurier” in August of this year, 95 percent of all graduates of professional universities have already received a job within six months of graduation. That's a good thing for the colleges. I would also like to express the wish that, in the field of higher education, more attention should be paid in the future to the training of relevant professionals in the social and health sectors.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28559	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28580	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister Karl and Mr. State Secretary Lopatka – the Styrian contribution to the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dilettantism instead of strategy, flicking without concepts. – This is an destructive judgment by experts on the saving of Minister Karl in the science department. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is quite simply explained! In higher education, the notions of the coalition are diametrically dissociated. The SPÖ with its self-proclaimed Minister of Science Mag. Kuntzl blocks wherever it goes. The novelle to the university law is pushed to the long bank. We haven't worked here since then. In the project to reintroduce the tuition fees, Minister Karl is also on the rain. Last Sunday, the topic was explained as the main subject. Faymann whistles his national leaders back. As long as he is chancellor, there will be no tuition fees. – This means that the chancellor refuses the universities a lot of money. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Do you believe what you're saying? I don't think so.]] Some €150 million a year is lacking in financial resources that are urgently needed for university operations. These funds are missing! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This acid behavior of the chancellor is immense and further harms the universities. It also confirms, unfortunately, that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have failed with the re-introduction of the tuition fees. The government argues, while the universities burst out of all the seams. This catastrophic development has, of course, been primarily responsible for ÖVP ministers – you have recently, Federal Minister Karl. Unfortunately, the 100 days already expired – and you are in the middle of the fight! Your predecessor, Hahn, left you a bad inheritance. For years, the ÖVP has failed in science policy and has adopted itself in this field. Dear ladies and gentlemen! That is why the protests and the aid of the rectors are justified. In conclusion, they state: In Austria, the political education strategies and another 300 million annually are missing in order to keep the current standards of universities close. Now, with their savings package, SPÖ and ÖVP are still worsening the already bad conditions at universities dramatically. Last call – tomorrow, 22nd. December, in the “Kronen Zeitung”; I do not know if you already know it, Mrs. Federal Minister Karl –: In an interview, the head of the rector Hans Sünkel warns of the unsustainable conditions at the universities. The local universities are just before the collapse, he says, and so on. It quickly demands access restrictions. We need these regulations, this framework until the end of January! – It’s in the “Kronen Zeitung” tomorrow! And here SPÖ and ÖVP pretend to have been nothing in the field of science policy. Here's fire on the roof! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A logical consequence of all of this – and you know that, Mrs. Federal Minister – is that many researchers and teachers migrate from universities. This also applies, of course, to the former Elite University, the TU Graz, where you recently opened something. After ten years, institutions have to be closed here. The professors are wandering away – enough for them, they lack prospects for the future. They are mainly found in Germany. Despite the economic crisis, there are certain conditions for their scientific work at the neighbour, and therefore they go to Germany with a heavy heart. Ms. Federal Minister, her savings programme further disassembles the research location of Austria and the international reputation. Here you need acute action. Take over the BZÖ requirements in the field of science! These have been spoken by our science spokesman, Mag. Widmann, just a few minutes ago and asked for vehement. The priorities are clear: the immediate billions for the university sector, the higher education sector and the reintroduction of tuition fees. Only our actions, these measures of BZÖ, guarantee that universities will remain workshops of the future. Mrs. Federal Minister, put these issues into practice!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28617	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28638	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am glad that we have in this country a very fighting and determined minister who takes care of the topics of science and research. That's what I'm saying. I see this quite differently from some of my previous speakers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My access to this issue is more of an international one. We agree, I believe, in this House, that science and research for Austria are an extremely important factor not only for the future, but also for the location factor and that we are at the forefront here. The fact that the Federal Minister is doing excellent, well-competent work here under difficult conditions is obvious to me and is also recognized. Unlike Mr Grünewald, I do not think that the Federal Government has managed to make the access arrangements and the question of tuition fees on the sole issue. Far from it! No definition power can be established in this area. Thank God the discussion is varied and also colorful. In my opinion, both of us will need: We will need access schemes that are clear and sustainable, and we will need study fees. Mr Grünewald, I think this is an interesting point of view, and I understand that perhaps it is not quite right for you to see how the Austrian opinion has changed in this regard. This view of opinion cannot influence the government alone, but the broad debate. Personally, I tell you quite honestly, a rather stubborn defendant was not a tuition fee for a long time. This has to do with my personal background. But I have also experienced what freedom of study or free access to higher education, if we now take it wider, cannot afford, namely, more social justice. When we look at this: Interestingly, the social mix is larger in the colleges than in the universities. It cannot also afford a higher academic ratio – we can also see this in the international comparison when we look at the different models. And free of study can also afford higher qualifications, quality in teaching and research. So maybe it's time for us to stop these ideological battle calls and deal with the facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because that, I think, is behind the latest opinion polls – you certainly know them too. OGM has conducted various surveys here during the year, and it is interesting to note that 70 percent of the population is for study fees, and, interestingly, a majority not only among the greens – there have been for some time – but also among the SPÖ voters. And that seems to have its impact in the internal debate, if I may now assume that from the outside. We have to deal with these issues of the Mass University. We also have to deal with this – and this makes the Federal Minister in a very moderate way – that there are, in part, unacceptable conditions of study for the students. I trust their determination, I trust their expertise, and I hope that, at last, we can lead to a slightly broader debate on these important and socially relevant issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28707	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28728	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Plassnik, you may already be right that the Minister of Science is on the fight. This will not be of great use to her, however, if they completely abandon the colleagues of ÖVP and SPÖ and, in particular, the Vice-Presidents and the Chancellors of the Federal Republic of Germany on this issue, with a budgetary equipment which is simply not enough. Considering that study places abroad, for example in Germany, are much higher financed by the public than in Austria, it is also clear why these places are at the front in the many rankings as a location in this regard. In Germany, a study place costs €26 000, and at the University of Vienna, only €2900 are invested. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Where are the tuition fees?]] These are huge differences, they can't be wagered with beautiful speeches here! Of course, it is the failure of recent years. If at the beginning you have written 4 percent of the research rate in the government program and then already revise it to 3.76 percent, then of course the question is how to achieve this. I can assure you: With these budgets, as you have now presented them, certainly not! Even the Research and Technology Development Council, where you, Mrs. Minister, sent your experts in, emphasises the need for more funding per year by 6.6 percent. And from that these savings budgets of this government are far away! Finally, what you're doing is slowing down where it needs a turbo. My colleague Van der Bellen has already mentioned: What does that mean in the next four years? It is black and white on the table that the budget shares for science and research will fall, from 5.3 percent to 5.1 percent. And then you want to talk here inside of increases? You're ridiculous yourself! And if you're talking about public opinion: Look It is also what the public opinion of the Opinion Leaders is in this country! A recent “market” survey shows that the majority of respondents, i.e. 63 percent of respondents, are convinced that there is much too little investment in basic research in Austria. These deficits will be difficult to legislate, but they will have to be dealt with. Some examples show that it is wrong in the budget, even if you are trying to speak up today. There is, for example, the expiry of preferential professorships, which will mean a loss of 44 million for universities by 2014, and there are, of course, also savings in international research cooperations – a minimum of 42 percent! – where it is perfectly clear that this area is important. Mrs Minister, it is clear that you will not really continue with this budget as far as the major objectives are concerned, but the problem is: The next generation is at the expense of the young people. That is why it is important for us to meet three important demands as the first step: firstly, a clear plan of action, how we come to the 2 percent educational expenditure in the tertiary sector, and that by 2015, that means a rapid advance, because we need the best minds, secondly, a research funding law to define liabilities here, and thirdly, we need the safeguarding of academic young people at universities and investment in basic research. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you will be measured by future investment, and that, be aware of that, is far too little at the moment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28768	The next item is the report by Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28789	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The topic of science is one that has been debated in the public in recent months, and it is no secret that SPÖ and ÖVP have many contrary positions here. As a Social Democratic, I wish for opportunities for high-quality education and, above all, for accessible access to all fields of study. This is not a contradiction, but rather a question of political will, and it is not always obvious to me. The problems at universities have nothing to do with tuition fees. It is a sad fact that despite the €80 million of offensive funds, expenditure on this important area of GDP is moving away from the 2-percent target and approaching the 2005 level. And then you can hear the ÖVP-dauersager, which you can't hear at all: No debt on the back of our children!, I also wonder whether what is being saved here would not be better invested in the future would be offered to these children an adequate training opportunity, an education that would make Austria competitive even in the next decades. Because everything saving doesn't make sense today if you have to spend the money again tomorrow for economic measures, because yesterday's tertiary education system cannot live up to the demands of today's society and economy. One last thing – unfortunately, Mr Grillitsch is not here; he has wanted it so much –: If the Federal Ministry doesn't come around for saving, for whatever reason, then at least it should be save meaningfully. When I think of the uncertain funding of the University Center Rottenmann: This is, for example, something I would not save, at a centre that fits perfectly into the regional funding plans and is in line with the concern of getting graduates to study. This center will fall victim to the spasm. This is a project that you, Mrs Minister, must explain to me and many other people in the Liezen district once again, because that has not yet happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28822	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28844	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly don't do bad work for the universities, that's neither our intention nor necessary. It's not good for the university. And if we consider what is left of this university dialogue that took place last year – if at all! – then it was the unanimous opinion that there was a lack of money in the front and back to enable a positive development. And that was not only the opinion of those concerned at the universities, i.e. the university professors who then left, the students who also left, and the middle building, but also the workers' chamber, trade unionists, the industrial association, the Chamber of Commerce, the parties. So there is, I think, a consensus on this one point. On the contrary, there was no consensus in terms of study fees and admission restrictions. There was more of a dissenting attitude: That's what we want. And yet you are holding on to these two points, and – it has already been suggested several times today – I also see this clearly as a distraction strategy. Because of what you are talking about in public, of course, the view of the wounded point, of the problems that exist. And one of these problems is quite clearly the stubbornness of the Federal Government, which simply does not want to make what is urgently necessary to force developments. It is slowing down where it is supposed to be financed, and so it does not do exactly what we all call for, namely to invest more money where it is necessary. Now I come to a small pocket-player trick, which I noticed, which is independent of the “great weather” situation, the colleague Van der Bellen has explained that this 80 million € is not at all right; it is more about the small “weather situation”. Let's take a closer look at the 80 million euros that are supposed to be more there for the universities. – Of the €80 million you do not want to spend €26 million at all. They hold you back, they then pour you out again sometime in 2013, perhaps as an election sugar. So you're selling this 26 million € that you're holding back now, a second time. But still € 54 million. You have explained to us how you want to spend them, of which €10 million at the vocational colleges. That's certainly very good, but it doesn't use the university at first. Stay 44 million €. And I've already asked you in committee: What about these €35 million, which your predecessor, former Minister Hahn, granted to universities in his distress just a year ago? At that time, the unis burned – and they still burn. And these €35 million must be added to the 2010 budgeted figures as a success of the year 2010, so it must be €35 million more – otherwise it is no longer €35 million that he has given, but it is just a shift in the budget. But if we have €35 million more in 2010 for expenditures that are being continuously continued, and this is actually the case because above all things have been invested in teaching, so professorships have added to it, then you have to continue now. That means that we have to deduct this from the €44 million – €9 million left, and you now spend it many times – you have listed it – for overhead, for improving the study conditions and for integrating the non-university institutes. The €12 million you have estimated for this is not a fresh money either, because they take you away from the non-university institutes before, so that you can give it back to them – like Mr Van der Bellen said – and partly not the universities, but the Academy of Sciences. I'm sure it's good when she gets it, but it's working out front and back with pocket-player tricks. Frustrating that we need to discuss over €80 million at all, but sad that it is not even those! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28907	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28928	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! My predecessor Ursula Plassnik and many others have already pointed out that the free access to higher education has not met the expectations of many of us in him over the last decades, and I appeal to you all that we do the best for our universities together in the knowledge of that. We know that the next year will be particularly difficult for our universities. In some countries of Germany, the schooling period is reduced from nine to eight years, while at the same time the military duty is suspended. Even if we were to pour out the money bag across the universities, they would not be able to manage a completely unblemished supply of students from a country ten times larger than Austria and to cope with the equipment with laboratories, with well-trained staff, with rooms out of the booth. That's why my urgent appeal is: Just next year, we will not overwhelm our universities in a way that they cannot even deal with all the money in the world! Let us create a common framework that will enable universities to actually fulfil the task of good training, of excellent research! That is why I really ask for understanding, because I see no way of improving the conditions alone with money, let alone really do good. In introducing the study contributions, many of you may well have had the impression that we now want to cash off money from students, or that it is a matter of punishing anyone that more people from higher social classes are allowed to study anyway. It's not like that. What we wanted to create and also did was an ex-ante planning for the universities, which is also very important. You can't really study students who don't really want to study – there are also those! – let simply write down the universities with the enrollees, let them plan everything because of this completely wrong data situation, and then insist that only 80 or only 70 percent of these students have made an examination. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There are also professors who do not want...!]] We have to do this the other way around. We need to know before: Who really wants to study?, and create the best conditions for those students. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amon.]] This is all the more important in the future than we are building on increased cooperation between universities and our companies, especially in the field of research and innovation. In addition to the financial support for the research premium and the financial increase of the FFG, we need to focus more on cooperation between universities and the economy. Especially for our SMEs, which make up our innovative strength, we are making more money available to new research projects in the FFG – and they are also to be led to cooperation with universities. This is only possible with better planning at the universities at all and possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28969	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e28995	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has to be said about the tuition fees – and this is very important in the context of this debate – that, before the tuition fees were introduced, the Ministry of Science budget was reduced by almost exactly that amount in 2001. Then they were introduced, and that was covered. And when the majority of this House abolished it, it was also made sure that precisely the funds that are now missing from the universities were transferred from the budget. So, these funds are not missing and cannot therefore be used as a control instrument. They are also a social contribution. They lead to the absence of these educational barriers that we have managed to get out of the way. I'm sorry about it and I'm sorry. I very much appreciate the Minister – that is not just what he said! – because it is really committed to its concerns and is one of those who says – and I would ask that they support all those who praise them so much – it is important and crucial that we create the basis for tertiary education, namely, a common education for our coming generation, and that they join a common school very vehemently, because they know exactly why. All the more I would like to say: Yeah, let's find a way. But for us Social Democrats, this path is so important and so crucial that, as I believe, we need to look for other solutions to get out of this situation. In this context, I am also interested in the field of new teacher training, where you play a crucial role. They all agree: The new teacher training will take place at university level, at tertiary level. You know, there are three options now. It can't be the educational college alone, it can't be the university alone. So there is a cluster possibility, a cooperation between educational universities and universities. There is the possibility to form faculties at the universities or also their own educational universities, which from my personal point of view – that is, I say – would be the only right thing. After all the problems we have now discussed in connection with the universities, it would be good and right to send a clear signal to the new teacher training: We want to focus on a new teacher training and there we will combine the best forces and find a good combination between practical training, educational and educational training and a very technical training! I think that's important. You're going to be particularly demanding. I also ask you to support the Minister of Education, as you have done so far, because we need the new teacher training in education policy as urgently as a bite of bread. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29036	Next speaker: Mr Peter Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29060	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Rehabilitating a budget also means saving, but not in science and research. I believe that all speakers agree on this subject group. You have to hold on: We want in Austria the best university locations, we want the best teachers at the universities and in research, and we also want the best students. [[Abg. May. Widmann: That's what we all want!]] This is the point I would like to address. In Austria, we have the situation that we have a lot of students, but few graduates who actually do. This means high costs per graduate. We have to counter that. In my immediate neighborhood there is a family. The father is an autopainter, single earner, they have four children. Everyone's lucky to study. I know the family very well. We're playing together in the music club. I asked her: How do you see that? Are study fees a problem? Are access restrictions in the form of reception tests a problem? What do you say? They say: That's not a problem! If study fees are socially fair, then of course we also have a chance! It is our concern – they have literally said – that with the students the speu is separated from wheat, especially in the mass compartments! – You don’t think of it, if there are a high number of students who hop around, need from one subject to another, and actually don’t know what they want to do at the end of the day. Once again, it is a question of using instruments effectively to regulate access specifically to the mass compartments. Mr Widmann has already mentioned this: The German wave is on. That is where we must find counter-taxes and corresponding instruments. I think it is positive that there are offensive measures in the university area of €80 million. One can of course argue about the height. Other amounts have already been heard, for example, from a billion-dollar university, which is wanted in this area. But I would like to say one thing: For a long time, the budget level has not said anything about the quality. There is an up-to-date example in the Bundesliga. The club won the Autumn Championship with the smallest budget. That was the SV Ried. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: Honor who deserves honor!]] I know the comparison may be a little bit, but I like to say it because it's my home club. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to address the success model of the technical colleges. There are a large number of graduates who are finishing in the minimum period. The graduates then immediately have a place on the labour market, and, as mentioned several times, there is a good social mix – despite tuition fees. This is also to be stressed several times. I was pleased that SPÖ heads of state have become a little more accessible in terms of tuition fees. However, the SPÖ-Granden then took the step back on this subject. They are afraid to be in the main theme of SPÖ – a no to study fees. But don't be afraid to fall over, we'll catch you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29122	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29143	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I sometimes have the impression that the study fees debate, which is constantly being spread so to speak, serves to distract me from the problems we have at the universities. I already see the story very objectively, I'm trying. But we just have the problem that very many maturants who find no profession after the matura are Just decide to go to the universities, and there are sometimes something planless and unscrupulous on the road. That's right. There's a second thing, of course. Everyone in Austria knows that in the next few years around 50 percent of teachers will be pensionable. This, of course, increases the interest in studying these subjects, because one also sees a chance to get through. My impression is: At the universities you do not know and do not respond to this development. I really see a danger that there will be too few teachers because the universities are routinely continuing their program. I am very glad that a solution will be found for the non-university institutions, Mrs Federal Minister! If there are those who are not worthy of funding, then you have to take the consequences here, that is not a question! It is basically like I mean, very important, very great institutions, which, in part at the time, were not wanted at the universities, because the professors who decided there did not want it, or which were partly founded, because the researchers themselves were animated by the ministry to become extra-university active and to be financed in this way, not simply to chill. If there is a solution here, it is also very good for the research location Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29182	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29204	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, at the end of your statement, you said: The universities and the services provided there are not to be blamed. - You're perfectly right. But then I don't understand why, with your discussion on access restrictions, you do everything you can to get fewer students to the universities and to drive the students out of there, because it's not easy... [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because you are against the study fees, quite simply! This is a consequence of your policy!]] – So: We're at tuition fees, and you're dispossessing the students. That's kind of an interesting logic, I think. [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, no! You asked another question! You have asked the question of why there are restrictions on access, which by the way the Faymann also welcomes! Because you're refusing tuition fees!]] - Yes, that's right! I can also tell you why we reject them. In the first year of the introduction of the study fees, we immediately had 15 percent fewer primary recipients. Col. Hakl dressed this in arrogance: The social mix in universities has not succeeded. 40 years of free access to higher education: The social mix has not succeeded! Your answer is: Now we're gonna close everything! We increase the barriers, we make it even more difficult to get to the universities. Because it's quite clear: Study fees and access restrictions will result in fewer students coming to the universities. Our problem, however, is not only that we have too few maturants or too few academics, but also that we have a highly selective school system, which – and all of them say – is much too early, and that we still do far too little in early promotion. I'm just calling an example from the PISA study. There are figures that the best 20 percent of the third service group in a primary school in their services corresponds to the worst 20 percent of AHS. But the result is: The AHS students create it to a greater extent at the universities, make it up to Matura and study. Students in the third performance group of the primary school sometimes do not even manage to get a apprenticeship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] That means that this is the result of our selective school system. If you say, We have not made the social mix, then we leave it and we introduce access restrictions and study fees, because without financial contribution it is not possible! and the answer is: If we don't get any money, then the students have to pay for it themselves!, I find that – with permission – a little tick. The universities need more money, but we know very well that this rich country would also have other ways of making money. We only needed a fairer taxation of assets in this country, and we would have a better solution immediately, and we would immediately have the opportunity to get more students to the universities! Thank you. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Amon: Go, please!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29286	There are no longer any further statements on the Science and Research chapter. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[18:54:06]] Heading 4 (Economic, Infrastructure and the Environment) [[18:54:07]] UG 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29329	For advice, heading 4: Economics, infrastructure, the environment, with subdivisions 34 and 41, as well as 25, 33 and 40, as well as 42 and 43. First of all, the breakdowns 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research), as well as 41: Transport, Innovation and Technology. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29356	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'll start with a request again. [[Quoted print version removed]] Why am I making this request? – Not because we believe that today the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ believe that It would be quite positive, but again to the memory because we see exactly how the story is going on using the Linz Westring: The Federation promises – sometimes rightly, sometimes unjustly – and sometimes the countries are incapable of actually making these agreements in writing or making them firm, as a lawyer would do. The so-called "Oberschmäh" of our head of state, Mr. Pühringer, whom he last gave of himself on the occasion of the last meeting, is: Well, if now this calculation and the forthcoming negotiations do not do anything again, then he still has the necessary means of applying in the National Council. . I think Mr Landeshuptmann was no longer in Vienna now, because he should actually know what the coalition agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ looks like. That's what we're looking at! I believe that if the West Ring does not come, not only the Upper Austrians have enormous damage, but also the Lord's captain and Mr Hiesl will suffer a little damage. But please, be it. Let's get to the traffic theme, to the roads and to the cars first. Our motto is – I think that is well known –: Free ride for free citizens! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Very quickly!]] I know there are some problems with the greens. Mrs Moser has come on time! Right! Thank you for listening to me. Let's take a look at some of the things you might be interested in, for example, NoVA and MOST, where the federal government operates a sham ecologization with the entire six cents per litre we have. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's right!]] You know, we're coming very slowly to where the greens always wanted to if, for example, they demanded higher fuel prices or other things, tolls et cetera. The Greens have always promised us if this is implemented, then individual traffic will be so much less. Now we have arrived, and the individual traffic has not become less, it has actually become more. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have no idea!]] – Right, Mr. Kogler says that he is the only... [[Further call of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You know, I can say in 10 minutes what you say in 13 hours. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Widmann: A bike track at the Westring!]] It's just empty what you always bring. What do the surplus income really bring? – You can evaluate how much CO2 this really saves, you can also evaluate anything else. We say: Let us make a commitment to purpose, because then we have something of it! Perhaps another word about the Greens: You'd better say: Free ride for free cyclists! – I really think this is a dangerous threat. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Endangered!]] The boys on the bikes have no markings, they have no insurance, they are running ongoing violations of laws, violate the road traffic regulations, although they are actually privileged anyway. [[Abg. May. Widmann: You pay no tax!]] Ongoing, some of the driver's flights are documented in the newspapers, despite the most serious accidents. So please: You can “castle ” this somewhere! We want road traffic with cars and motorcycles, but not necessarily with bicycles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also a word for the pendler's fee. Here I really address my request to the SPÖ to think about it: A pendulum fee doesn't bring any small earners and atypical employees at all. My great concern for the Federal Ministers would be to draw up an infrastructure and transport plan in the overall context. Let's think back: The last one was created in 2002 by Mrs. Forstinger. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, under your colleague Forstinger!]] Right, he was also prayed by Gorbach! And someone else hasn't done one yet. The Greens have not even brought together a paper for this. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And he has put all this into us! And that was terrible!]] What would be important in this context would, of course, be the ÖBB in addition to road transport. Why? – Not because this is any company, regarding the colleague Maier of the ÖVP always speaks only about debt, but because there is also forestry – apologies! –, economics is a lot inside. You always come very easily when you look at the ÖVP side, to the forestry! In that case, however, it is the economy. Why? Of course, it is not only 45 000 railers who really work properly and who do not deserve to be thrown into the trash at every traffic discussion – not even by the ÖVP! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Rather, it is about the ÖBB not only having to do with the operating sector, but also with the infrastructure sector, and there comes to us slowly, but certainly a mountain of financing, of which one has previously said that this is an interim financing, but in the meantime it is no longer; and the height of this mountain is not small. We should save the ÖBB a fate like that of the AUA, in which one has always said that there is nothing more important than the red tail fin, and at the end it was sold. The DB donors are just waiting for them to swallow the ÖBB. Mrs Bundesminister, please look at the fact that the debt is being reduced, that interest is also paid in accordance with the interest rates and that a reorganisation is coming in this area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29536	The motion for a resolution tabled will be discussed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29610	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29633	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I do it very briefly, I deal with the field of non-university research, technology and innovation. I think you can be truly comprehensively congratulated on this really great budget. It will probably not be so easy for entrepreneurs to take advantage of the opportunities offered to them by this budget. I'm very happy about that. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] But I am also very happy about the focus on a few major priorities and especially pleased that production science will be a focus in the next future at BMVIT. As said, warm congratulations, you have been extremely successful in negotiating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29663	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29695	Yes, of course, Mr Molterer, please. Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What do you want me to say, Mr. Molterer? – The problem lies in the fact that the Minister of Transport, unfortunately, inherited a transport policy, inherited a budget policy that was in her hands, Mr Molterer, who was black and blue. My previous speaker has already noted that the general traffic plan comes from the era of Forstinger, and we have it all on the table now. Madam Minister, your transport budget is unfortunately under this mortgage, because on the one hand he really has a budget dynamite charge, say debt explosion extra-budgetary; and I then enjoy the speech made yesterday by Mr Kopf. Yesterday in the morning, he was bubbling with this, debt reduction is the most essential thing. We have to save a little bit, sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less, especially among the families and students, and then a little bit with the pensioners and then there and there. Mr Kopf, listen to the Minister for Finance Pröll, who said: 3.1 billion € annually investment in rail and road development as a new debt. There the debt is accumulated, there is a debt dynamics, there is debt dynamite. You don't need to read my budget speeches from the years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, but you only need to read in the newspaper. You only need to hit up today’s “curies ” again, you only need to hear the“ morning journal. ” We have a very concrete problem because of this massive indebtedness for rail and, above all, for road development. These are not some kinkerlitz small amounts, that is €35 billion, and you know very well that Eurostat, according to Statistics Austria, will create new rules or new standards. You have an advisory agency, Mr. Molterer. What's that name? – Euro Agency or Euro Capacity or something similar. You'd have to advise. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You need that urgently!]] – Yes, I have, unfortunately, thrown away the note where the name stands. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I make it cheaper for you!]] You would urgently have to advise the companies that they are careful because the state liability is going to hit, and then we don't have 70 percent debt rate, where we should only have 60 percent according to Maastricht, no, then you can count loose 18 percent, because if you charge 35 billion € extra-budget liability to normal debt, then unfortunately we don't have 70, but 88 percent. And that's a monster problem on the budget, because then our credit is another, then we don't get any more so easily Triple A. Mrs. Minister, that was, so to speak, the retrospective, but your transport budget has not only this debt dynamics – harmlessly expressed – this budget explosive in itself, but on the other hand, it's also socially and ecologically extremely unfair. I'm just saying a keyword: Unsocial is your budget because you're shortening. They are shortening, so that the ÖBB, for example, drive without any effort. What does that mean? – The rich have a beautiful, wonderful car, are equipped with this wonderful mobility, a comparatively cheap NoVA, probably a company car. The company car is also very cheap for tax purposes. We know that in total there are tax gifts of half a billion in view of the tax preference of company cars. But the simple people, the “small” women and men, who depend on driving by train, and if the machine does not work, then the ticket costs 65 €. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: What does Upper Austria do with the MOST funds?]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is unsocial, apart from having a public transport policy, Mrs Minister, where there is a constant spasm. I can lead it to you in a row. They put on the spasm where it really hits the mass, and on the other hand, you're straining a mega-debt case again, which can only be achieved and carried off by tax burden on the mass again. Where it is built, the billions flow, I have already said it: at the ASFINAG, at the ÖBB plus 50 percent in the budget investments, from 1 billion € we go up to 1.5 billion €. In 2025 we have 25 billion euros of debt to the ÖBB; everything is paid off in annuity rates, and they will always rise by a three-digit million amount per annual budget. On the other hand, where the passengers are on the road, you save, for example, on the train connections. An unpaved connection between the capitals of Graz was removed between Linz and Graz, was removed between Graz and Salzburg and was deleted between Graz and Innsbruck. As a simple person, you can always change without a company car. Thank you! [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: The green pickup doesn't pay for it!]] I have already mentioned this – a false consequence of these too little public transport equipment – with these super tickets by €65. The funds for subway and trams, private railways, were reduced by minus 6 percent, the metro grant in Vienna by minus 10 percent. Where people are on the road, it's deleted that it's just so powerful. Further: Energy levy. At once, the ÖBB can pay energy, wakere 27 million €. Mrs. Minister, I know you're not directly guilty, but you've got to sort this out. We have an indirect transport budget at the ÖBB, where we have additional burdens on what is already in debt. I don't want to talk about the mismanagement taxes, which are also located there. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Has it failed anyway!]] Where people drive, they'll be locked. Look They go to Lower Austria: Regional railways are slowing down, because the country no longer wants to. And why does the country no longer want to? – Because as a federation you allow it no longer wants it. There should not be a lock-up paragraph that ensures that the whole is handled so quickly that private stakeholders are not even called out. Finally, we look at where to drive and pay passengers back on it – in the financing of public passenger and local transport. There were once wakeres € 11 million, now it is the legally fixed € 7 million again. Get down with it, 4 million € less! And on the other hand – we are also talking about research here – provide a generous research funding for e-mobility/auto: €60 million. That's easy, but we're still dropping 4 million € in public transport. That's wrong! Where the rich are on the road, privileges exist, where the ordinary people are on the move are saved, there are tariff increases, people are even partially punished. This is, in our view, the total gap in this transport budget. I don't want to talk about energy efficiency and climate protection at all. The MOST has only been increased slightly, the NoVA has been easily ecologized, and it must be a bit at the time of the ticket. But on the other hand, we have privileges that persist. We butter into the bonuses payments – I remember Vienna Airport, Skylink. That's not what I'm saying. Its direct scene, but it also has to do with Vienna as a location. All in all, we have a process that serves the construction industry, which promotes the rich, gilded the construction industry and partially deprived the private, the simple people of subsistence. [[Call to the SPÖ: This is a completely distorted presentation, Mrs Colleague!]] Since this has tradition in this house, I can still remember what I said in the first place about this black and blue heritage. This black and blue heritage can now be seen as a substitute for the four-liner by Mr Grossruck. This black and blue heritage goes back to a gentleman named Minister of Finance Grasser. There was a circle of friends around him. The circle of friends always filed with privatizations. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a swamp team!]] Since these friends did not know what they actually got the money for – it was 200 000 €, it was 500 000 €, it was sometimes 10 million € – they called. Yeah, who called them? – The former Minister of Finance! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Black and blue swamp, for spitting!]] And then the former Minister of Finance, his sign also well says ÖVP-nearly: Well, I would look more closely at this, in which countries is the PORR, in which projects it was active. A little in the direction in which they also argue. – And then Meischberger says: I'm super naked now, I don't know. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Black and Blue Coalition Force!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want these states, we want to draw a line below them, we want to examine them in a parliamentary way. We need, above all, a transport budget that serves the people and does not partly continue this black and blue mismanagement and, above all, the major projects continue to carry on at the expense of the generation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29871	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29893	Mrs. Federal Minister! As a research spokesperson, I am very happy that we have additional € 100 million for close-to-company research. Mrs Moser. You wonder now, I would like to give you very massive support to what you have done with the protocols here, because I think there are great savings in the ÖBB and in other areas, and there is corruption to an extent where I am glad, Mrs Moser, that you are now putting your fingers in the wounds, and I think you are also putting it in the right wounds. [[Abg. Oillinger: Say something about corruption in the BIG!]] . Now listen to me, Mr Oillinger! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You all adopted, they all sit with you!]] In fact, I am convinced that the whole problem is much greater than what Mr Moser has now discovered with the protocols is also going back much longer and is much worse than all that we have been able to read and have had to read in the newspaper. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Annoyance than in Sicily! Hunt company!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I worked at Brenner Railway GmbH in the nineties. Pöchhacker and others were already in their functions at the time, and I have experienced what pressure on awarded companies is being exerted on the construction industry, but also on the side of the ministry to direct contracts in a certain direction. [[Intervocations with Greens and ÖVP.]] At the time, we were a very small team and all signed with the then boss, the later SPÖ State Councillor Lindenberger, to Scholten – who was still Minister of Transport at the time – that we would cancel and withdraw our jobs if the commissions were to be awarded as much as we demanded from the Supervisory Board – also the Ministry – and Scholten corrected that at the time. We have got rid of our Supervisory Board chairman so to speak. I wish, Madam Federal Minister, that this is happening now with the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB. Pöchhacker was already there at the time and is still in the middle of it today! And the things that happen are much worse, Mrs. Moser, than you believe. Corruption is not how you might assume to seek in politics. [[Call the Greens.]] I take you in protection, Mrs Federal Minister, because I am firmly convinced that: You're not here. I think there are now also investigations in your cabinet, and I know that especially among the ministerial councils who are still in their positions and functions, there are some who have already smiledly told them that their haciendas were built after corresponding construction orders by construction companies. You should go through your resort with a steel leg. I also know how hard that is. Ministers come and go. Ministers are incredibly hard at this point. Ministers depend on the expertise of their officials. But I would pay particular attention to all the projects and question them again, such as the Koralm Tunnel. - No one can explain what we need. I've only been watching the Internet: PORR.Steiermark was commissioned by ÖBB Infrastructure Bau AG with Baulos 5, the project management of the Koralmbahn. This building consists of four underpasses with supports for the ÖBB and for the SKB. Two bridges – a railway bridge and a road bridge – are also to be constructed over the Stainzbach. In addition, five smaller bridges have to be carried out – and so on and so on. It's all over the place. I would pay particular attention to all those projects in which the planning community Fritsch, Chiari & Partner is active, because I have been aware for years that over-all the costs there explode and a back cover of the planners happens to an extent that we, I believe, cannot wish for all together. This is at the station buildings in Vienna. This is the Skylink where this planning community worked. And I think one should also pay some attention to how the connections run: on the one hand, Pöchhacker, on the one hand, in particular Chiari, on the other hand Faymann as a former residential councillor. I hope that this is where the public prosecutors start much deeper investigations and that we will all take one step to get rid of this, because I am of the firm conviction that we are talking here about savings potential of many, many hundred million, resulting from orders that are wrongly awarded to construction firms with overpriced and overpriced prices. And I hope at some point we are able to finally crack this system that has existed for more than 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e29983	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30004	Mr President. Minister! High house! Colleague Moser has here – where is she?; she is not there at all – that the General Transport Plan, the then Minister for Foresting, would be responsible for the miseries of the ÖBB and the entire transport policy. Unfortunately, Mrs Moser is not here, because the problem of ÖBB will be explained by a letter sent to me by an expert working in the economy, who has much to do with the SBB, with transport management, with the economy, with rail transport and with passenger transport and with this area. I asked him: What is the SBB's success recipe against the ÖBB? – He wrote me: Point 1, clear separation of policy and governance, four-year service contracts and special funding for large projects, which are always adopted jointly in accordance with the Government and Parliament. Then he writes: In this context, non-political governance. – Mr Haberzettl, this concerns you: unpolitical management. I'll come back to you later! Then he writes: The 20-year “Bahn 2000” project has expanded the range of services on the entire network optimally and massively. The result is 27 percent more traffic in just five years. – The ÖBB could take an example here, ladies and gentlemen. To comply with the central values punctuality, safety and cleanliness is done daily. In fact, the quality of the offers has grown to a very high level. The market shares of the railways in Switzerland are enormously high, between 70 and 90 percent. The difference can be seen at the stations and trains. The railway stations are always very lively in Switzerland. Recently I was at Innsbruck station at 6:00 p.m., he writes here, this station was empty. [[Call the SPÖ:... no!]] - Yes, he writes to me. [[Call the SPÖ: 25,000 every day!]] - No, I don't. [[Call the SPÖ: But!]] The audience on the trains is a picture of our society. In 1990 it was still said in Switzerland that only the four As run by train: the old, the trainees, the poor and the freaked out. In retrospect, the ÖBB in the 1990s – Mrs Moser, here we are exactly at this point, you have misunderstood it – probably committed a serious strategic mistake, namely to set the priority on freight transport. It's hard to correct. – This is what a specialist writes, which has a huge economic impact on the railways in Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I think there's where the mistakes lie. The ÖBB simply had a wrong concept in the nineties, and at that time it was not known that there was still a FPÖ or BZÖ transport minister at the row. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us now consider the situation of the ÖBB! In 2009, the punctuality ratio in passenger transport was 91.4 percent below the 95.4 percent rate of the previous year. If every third freight train is now untimely – and it is massively untimely – then this is not a good sign for the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen! The billions of debts accumulated here are a time bomb for the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, eh!]] We know that every year we invest €7 billion in the railway or in the ÖBB. But we have to admit that pensions are being praised here – with the knowledge that the ÖBB has the earliest pension system, which means that, on average, ÖBBler retires at 52 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer]] In addition, the ÖBBlers not only retire with 100 percent of the fees – like the other officials, even if they have such additional charges – but also that the overtime – i.e. the additional fees – is charged in such a way that they can be considered as additional service, and then they can retire earlier. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Josef Auer]] This system needs to be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already made some brief cuts today, in the speech by Mr Hundstorfer, the investment programme for transport infrastructure, stand 25. ==References== [[The speaker shows the above-mentioned document.]] As far as I know, Mrs Minister, you were the SPÖ's Federal Managing Director at the time, and I think nothing has changed on this paper yet. It is written: "For the SPÖ, there is no further increase in taxes and charges for private drivers. This means a clear no to an increase in car tolls” and that a further increase in mineral oil tax is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look back at the last four years in which the SPÖ is in the government and a SPÖ Transport Minister on the row – or before the current German Chancellor was Transport Minister – I have to say: Word broken! Madam Minister, you know the paper, I suppose. – Word broken! You have increased the price of the vignette several times, you have greatly increased the mineral oil tax. However, the drivers – and you think of the many commuters and workers who have to drive the car to work – are affected by a total of eight taxes: the mineral oil tax, the VAT with 1.8 billion revenues, the turnover tax when buying a vehicle, the NoVA as a tax on a tax, the motor insurance tax, the insurance tax, the vignette as a tax and the CO2 tax on new cars. If we add all of this and see how the drivers are disassembled, Mrs. Minister, there's a lot going wrong here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Let me return to a project that I have already mentioned in the Committee: the connection between the A 14, the Rheintal motorway, and Switzerland – an old project that should have been solved with the S 18. Over 30 years are already planned for this construction project, nothing has happened. Only in the Committee did I have to know that this project is not even in the General Transport Plan until 2016, the Vorarlberg State Government has not even made the financial requirement. In Vorarlberg, there are still voices that are being sought for this connection problem, and the media have also been told today that on the A 14 traffic has increased towards Switzerland, which has subsequently been diverted to the lower-ranking road network. There's a lot of things going wrong here. All of this is not only in your hand, but it is also in ÖVP hand, with your coalition partner. Minister! Here you and the ÖVP are juicy. I think there is an urgent need for further work to be done here. That's what I want to leave it for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30111	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30132	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To my previous speaker: It is always good to look at both sides at the ÖBB. A railway worker in the driving service has quite irregular working hours – at night, on weekends, on holidays, on Christmas, on New Year's Eve – please also consider this. In fact, I would like to talk about innovation and technology, and much has been done, done, implemented in this area in the economic crisis. It has more than proven itself to be acting, the policy of BMVIT. The success of achieving the lowest unemployment rate in Europe is also a success of BMVIT. The use of funds where employment intensity is greatest has increased. This budget includes good programmes for SMEs. It is about facilitating the introduction of research and innovation for small and medium-sized enterprises to facilitate cooperation with research and development partners, such as the technical universities. Ladies and gentlemen! The Innovation Check for SMEs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, is a success measure that I would like to address for many good reasons – for very good reasons. In the first three years, the Innovation Check was used in Upper Austria alone by 650 companies, throughout the federal territory of significant 3,500 companies. This has greatly supported and strengthens the positive development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30165	The next speaker was Mr Lausch. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30187	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am saving you now ÖBB and ASFINAG, which has already been discussed enough by my previous speakers. I'm going to leave the broken ÖBB and ASFINAG out completely once. What I can't save you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and I would like to make a statement for this, because that is not understandable to me – but you are in good company with the other members of the government, I say again: On the one hand, this Federal Government decrees on the part of taxpayers, citizens and citizens a package of savings, a package of taxes, says that in all Saving divisions, but even – and I really don't understand that – she puts a very wrong sign here. I noticed at this budget that you, like your ministerial colleagues, do not save in your own home. Staff expenditure is rising from 2009 to 2011 despite a decline in staff plan. That means you have fewer employees, but within two years, staff expenditure increases by € 4.5 million. That, I think, is certainly a completely false sign for the population. Then let's go on: Only in your house, in the BMVIT – advertising expenditure. They spend €2.5 million on advertising in 2011 – so you have budgeted it. I think that this is once again a completely false sign, a sign in the wrong direction for the population. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Advertising is important to you that you are worth €2.5 million in the population, in the media. Representation expenditure in BMVIT increased by more than double between 2009 and 2011, from € 136 000 to € 270 000. If I just count these three items together, then that's an extra charge of €7.3 million – that doesn't sound much in euros. In Schilling it would sound more, it would also be more – 7.3 million you spend here. You have not answered that in committee, I ask you again today: Mrs. Federal Minister! Hold Do you have this extra expenditure for so necessary in this tense budgetary situation that you can assume these €7.3 million more in 2011 of the population? - Maybe I'll get an answer today. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP! In the course of the last National Council election campaign, the then members of the government announced the introduction of an Austrian ticket. I am giving you today the chance to deliver on this late election promise. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Today, as has been said, you have the opportunity to deliver this election promise to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30272	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I am still saying that the resolution just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30344	Next speaker: Mr Schultes. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30366	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! [[call to the FPÖ.]] I would like to talk today about freight transport in the Danube Corridor. I live myself in the region east of Vienna – between the Danube, March and Vienna – and with us in the area you experience everything very intense, what happens to buildings on March, on the Danube. That is an important question for us. I see that shipping on the Danube does not take on the development I wanted. Between 1990 and 2007, shipping on the Danube developed in such a way that we had 7.5 million tonnes of cargo in 1990, around 11 million in 2007, 12 million tonnes in 2008. That's not exactly dramatic. Considering that the freight transported on the rail has risen from 11 million to 26 million tonnes and the freight transported on the road from 9.4 to over 43 million tonnes in this corridor, one can see that something has moved very well. Overall, the volume of cargo has tripled from 28 million tonnes to 81 million tonnes. What does that mean? – That means that in reality all other transports have developed considerably more dynamic, the rails not as good as the truck and the Danube not as good as the rail. We need special follow-up, because transport, which is environmentally friendly, does not develop so strongly. On the Danube there is often the problem that occasional lowwaters prevent proper utilization of the jaws. As an alternative to this, a comprehensive flow-building project was developed, which would also allow the area of the National Park to raise the low tide. The via donau, an institution of the federal government that is working very successfully in itself, has been trying for this project. Unfortunately, this project is overdue, and it will not be as implemented as it should be. Mrs Bundesminister, I can therefore ask you to come to the implementation phase as far as this project is concerned, namely the implementation of the integrated approach, even though several nature conservation organisations obviously want to interfere with the natural reconstruction of the Danube. I understand, honestly, not, but this is a strange fact of our time. On March itself, we have experienced that after the bad floods and the dam breaks, great plans have begun, which are now essentially implemented. We are in the last phase of expansion, and here I would say that via donau is doing really good work. Of course, the discussion with the population must be renewed every day. Not everything goes smoothly, but the discussion culture has developed well in recent years. The conversation's good. It's going a little further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I have to say, in general, there are many areas that work in this republic. The via donau and handling the waterways work, improvements are possible everywhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30433	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lightenecker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30456	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, as a member of the government's innovation and technology sector, it is perfectly understandable that you repeatedly wish that Austria should be one of the most innovative countries, that it should lead to innovation. The question is: How can this work? If you look at the countries that succeed – like Sweden, Finland, Germany, Denmark – you can see quite clearly that on the one hand, much more resources are being devoted to research, and on the other hand, the research landscape is different. In other words, it is quite clear whether there is a strategic process, a research strategy, and what the mix in research funding looks like, namely the interaction between direct research funding and indirect or fiscal research funding. If you look at this in Austria, you can see that there are very large amounts of funding here, and that there have been massive increases between 2002 and 2007, namely by around 48 percent. On the other hand, the universities are far behind – far behind! – although we now know that we need as many well-trained human resources as possible to become pioneers. The OECD also notes that no other country is so generous in tax terms as Austria. Finland, Sweden and Germany are much lower than that, but are still ahead in innovation and research. This is due to the fact that they invest much more in universities and much more in basic research. Mrs Minister, we are still waiting for an evaluation of the system that has been overdue for a long time – this is recommended by both the Court of Auditors and the OECD. So far, this has still not been done, and yet the government has gone here and said: Back then Pi, there are some interested big companies, we will increase the research premium from 8 to 10 percent – which will cause additional costs of € 80 million. This is a point that we believe needs a differentiated approach, namely to the question of how the funds can be used as efficiently as possible. Experts also always criticise inefficiencies and takeover effects, and suggest that the research premium should be seasoned. We believe that in the present situation, it is a good way of doing this, that one clearly expresses: We are important to companies or research in companies. Therefore: Let us leave the premium at 8 percent, for the medium-sized companies we increase it to 10 percent and for the small to 12 percent. This would be much more advanced, much more modern and cost-effective in the current situation in the sense of innovation. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it is not to remain empty – as Chancellor Faymann, Vice Chancellor Pröll and Minister Bures repeatedly demands – that Austria should be one of the most innovative countries, then today you support our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30542	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30591	Next speaker: Mrs. Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30614	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take a brief look at the debate and take a very specific position on five areas raised. Point one, on the question of the construction of the Koralm tunnel: Mr Hakl – she is now no longer here – has questioned the meaning of this project. I was until the time when it was not yet certain that we could also build the Semmering base tunnel and thus actually create a central roadway that we also have as a road, holding back. We have two central traffic veins in Austria, the West motorway and the South motorway. As an alternative, I need the railway as a mode of transport so that what we have defined is a shift from road to rail. Since the southern route, the entire corridor, has been able to go from the procedures to each other in the construction plans, and thus to have an alternative to the road not only on the west track, but also on the south track in the future, it makes sense to modernise this railway route. [[Consistency with SPÖ and BZÖ as well as with the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mrs Hakl, if you are already questioning the sensibleness of this project – and I also believe that every project should be checked again and again for its purpose – then I cannot understand why you have just brought it into Parliament, that I should prefer the award of the Koralm Tunnel to the tender law. Mrs Hakl was involved, and I do not think that is fair. With all the willingness to discuss every project and its sensibleness, a clear political line is needed, and I expect that from the coalition partner. However, I believe that it is only the Hakl Members who are alone. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Petzner: ( towards ÖVP) Very right!]] Secondly, Mr Deimek, you know, I very much appreciate you: We have many constructive discussions on transport policy issues. I also know that there is always a tendency to talk about billions of investments being planned. It is difficult anyway, because it is not quite manageable for people as much as € 1 billion, and € 7.5 billion for the ÖBB, which is put in the room, is not quite right. It does not, however, correspond to the facts, because we are talking about a budget volume of €2.7 billion today. As I'm supposed to hide €7.5 billion, you have to explain that to me. So we're talking about €2.7 billion investment in roads, in rail, in aviation, in the Danube, in the extension of waterways. So we have to say goodbye to the instigation of huge sums, even if this is popular, even if it sounds good. Today we are talking about a total of €2.7 billion of investment in the entire transport sector in 2011. I'm with them, and I also think it's good investment money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Third point. Mr Hagen – he is not here either. [[Abg. Hagen is just entering the meeting room.]] - Well, that's it! They are also among those with which we have a good deal to contend with in terms of transport policy. That's what I'm for. However, I have always said clearly that I represent a clear prioritisation in terms of road and rail modes. I also believe it is important for the future that Austria should rely on environmental transport. But that does not mean that I belong to those who explain the drivers to the milk cow of the nation, but rather to the contrary. We have things like change marks, we have regulations on the highway vignette and toll systems. This is all. We have, as I believe, a fair system in Austria. If we increase the price of vignette – just because you have also tailored the topic – from 2010 to 2011 by 30 cents, from € 76.20 to € 76.50, and then you waste 10 seconds of your speaking time using an index adjustment to talk about the driver as a milk cow of the nation, I think that this is truly covered and not appropriate given an increase of 30 cents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Fourth point. Mr Schultes, I am entirely of your opinion as regards the whole-scale project. I, too, consider the whole of modes of transport to be very important. We actually have a lot of capacity on the waterway. We must also invest in this area. I say quite frankly to you: I'm trying to force that. We only currently have a notice from the State of Lower Austria that we cannot implement this project in its form, and I have to respect it. However, this is not due to the available financial resources, nor to the lack of will of the Ministry of Transport or my person, but only to the fact that there are decisions by the State of Lower Austria, which unfortunately do not allow me to continue this project with the exception of a pilot project. However, we will also create these obstacles. I just wanted to make this clear once. The fifth point: The question of where to save, representation costs, administrative costs in BMVIT is quite clear: Every second person in this field who goes into retirement is not reoccupied. We will implement a structural reform in the BMVIT, as we have done at the ÖBB, which ensures efficiency and eliminates double conductivity. [[Abg. Grosz: Oh you! Just not like the ÖBB, please!]] We will therefore save massively in this area and no cents will be spent on the representation costs. I do not know exactly what figures were involved, but the budget is available to you, and as far as the budget figures are concerned, it is quite clear that: Compared to the 2010 budget estimate, there will be no increase in representation expenditure in the 2011 budget estimate, not a cent. This is still important to me. I wanted to say that, although I know that you – today it is not that late – had a long night. Of course I did. However, it was important to me to really enter into a discussion. We have a good culture and tradition of real debate in both the Transport Committee and the Research Committee. We don't talk by each other, but we look at things exactly. Therefore, allow me to say a little more than two minutes in principle about budget transport and research. We know that the OECD is talking about three factors that are very crucial to a country as regards its performance, employment and economic growth. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Education and Science!]] One point is education. You have already discussed this; nor is it directly with me to discuss it. The other two factors are the modernisation of a country's infrastructure and investment in research and technology development. I can truly tell you today that in these two factors – the modernisation of infrastructure and growth path in investment in research and technology development – we fully fulfil all that OECD rightly requires. We will continue to make record investments in infrastructure in the future. We will invest € 11.5 billion in the rail by 2016. We will invest €6.5 billion in the road by 2016, mainly in the area of road safety, where it concerns intelligent investment. Not every road has to be a highway. We need smart traffic solutions to relieve local cores. However, it must also be saved, and that is exactly what we are going to do with the administrative reform applied. I will save myself in my own home, and I will save there where oversaw projects that are not necessary for transport policy are rescaled or only partially realized. I think that's wise. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] Because I know that the issue of weighting, i.e. applied, economic research versus infrastructure, is always a little in favour of road and rail, you finally allow me to say something very briefly about the so important area of applied research. We will invest more than €400 million each year in research and technology development in the coming years. We will invest more in this area, and we have not crossed the lawn mower. There may have been tests there and there, but they have not been successful. In the field of technology development and applied research funding, we will actually invest €100 million through the so-called additional funds, offensive funds. We are doing this in order to strengthen the economic location, we are doing this in order to promote young people to ensure that we can provide high-quality jobs for the young people of our country. We are not doing this just to stay where we are today, namely within the EU among the top 3 in innovation and technology and worldwide in tenth place, but because we have the vision to get even better and to push ahead with the top 5 worldwide. I can really tell you pure conscience: If we take a lead in this, if we – science, economics, politics – are actually aware of how essential it is for all of us to invest in this area and make it our central topic, then we will also be successful. The numbers that lie on the table you will decide tomorrow show that we are on a good path and that can also be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30723	Next speaker: Mr Hell. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Before I come to my real point, allow me to address a few things from the previous discussions. According to my information, the construction contracts awarded within the ÖBB Group were decided in the relevant organisational units and awarded in the same way according to the documents available at that time. Koralm tunnel: According to my information, the decision for the Koralm tunnel has already been taken under Federal Chancellor Schüssel. I myself come from a region – St. Pölten – where they have been recruited during an already existing construction project, the freight transport system. I know what the cost is and what business consequences it has had to put an end to this procedure at the time. On the topic of Mrs Moser, on the unscrupulous operation: It does not mean ineffective operation, but it means zero-to-zero operation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's even worse!]] Zero-to-zero operation is no longer a train guide on the train. The train shall perform operational tasks. These operational tasks no longer apply because the vehicles have been converted accordingly and are taken over by the driver. Zero-to-zero operation is only used in local transport. Mrs Moser, if you are travelling from the Westbahnhof to Hütteldorf and on the way by subway, you will drive zero-to-zero. If you drive to Hüttldorf in a TW 4024 in the future, you will also drive zero-to-zero. So there are no big differences. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But this is not the case between Schlierbach and Linz!]] On the subject of Mr Hagen, the SBB on: The SBB – the Federal Minister has already mentioned this in the Committee – mainly serves major areas. The regional routes in Switzerland are partly owned by the cantons and are also financially supported by them. ==References== Therefore, it is easier for the SBB because it only has to take care of the operation of the main railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30795	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30816	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, you may be surprised at this, but in large parts of what you have done, I can only agree with you, especially with regard to the modernisation of infrastructure and investment in research and technological development. Where there is no functioning infrastructure, there is no economy either. That's the way it is! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are working in the future to ensure that transport routes are built forward-looking, smart and safe, so that we can also take certain dangers away from the road and change to the rails, that is only good. I can also confirm what you said about the East-West connections only to a hundred percent. When you sit down in the Westbahn and drive from Vienna to the West, you have semi-passable trains. The only problem is the delays. With the South Railway it is, for example, almost a world trip from Klagenfurt to Vienna. This is not just about the link between Klagenfurt and Graz, but about the trans-European axis from the Baltic states down to southern Italy. That's why it's all about us being involved. The traffic will not decrease, but it will increase. That is why it is also important that the transport network be expanded, which is also in the interest of Europe. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now we have the A 2, the South Motorway. We've got the West Motorway. We have North-South connections, we have East-West connections, and we need modern traffic routes. There are scary people there. With my colleague, Mr Hakl, I understand and appreciate otherwise, but I cannot understand what she has given of herself today. Anger from the Wifo also claims that we don't need this coral tunnel at all. Such people don't think at all, they just don't care, yes, they're against the extension of the South Railway as a trans-European axis. If Carl Ritter of Ghega had thought so at the time, we wouldn't have the Semmeringbahn until today. So, of course, it cannot go in this area of infrastructure. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, that is where the funds belong, I give you the right to do so. However, if I look today at how much budget deficit we have, if we add in addition the debts of the ASFINAG, the debts of the Austrian federal railways, social security, the countries and municipalities – which you don't care about – then that's crazy. Where's this going? Right there? There's no one left to look at it! Once upon a time, there is an administrative and state reform carried out so that we can get out of this mess. This is once again the important thing in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then I have to say one more thing: There is no doubt that measures are taken only: Such as the increase in the tax on mineral oil, a tax on the tax – even you do not, but you are indirectly affected with it; it is the banking minister who is guilty – weakens the purchasing power and stimulates the price. That can't be in the minds of inventors. Rather, you should think about it, and you as a social democrat should also work on the fact that at last this shuttle fee, which is no longer contemporary, will be abolished and a kilometre-dependent cost allowance will be granted. That's done in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30885	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30907	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to where I ended my speech yesterday, namely on the importance of debt reduction for our youth. I'm convinced that none of us want to hand over debts to his children. None of us want to put the future of our children at risk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the sense of generation justice, debt reduction is essential. This budget creates a turnaround and contributes to reducing the debt backpack for our youth. Now on the subject of transport in particular. Mrs. Federal Minister, in the Government Convention, the development of a “Roadmap Aviation” has been agreed. The question is why. – Because we are in global competition because we have to face new challenges in the European aviation area because we need visions for content and organisational adaptations. Summary: We need an aviation strategy to actively shape the future of aviation in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, a doubling of air traffic is expected in the European airspace by 2020. This means that twice as many passengers as today rely on safety standards and controls being carried out every day. A special challenge, as everything can be achieved from the point of view of smooth operation, punctuality and appropriate ticket prices. Under these conditions, however, the interests of the employees in air traffic must not be forgotten either. Mrs Bundesminister, your ministry is required to fill this roadmap with concrete content and to place it on a broad political basis. There are enough reasons for this. Some of them I mentioned. Austria's aviation is the least public means compared to all other modes of transport. The more urgent it is that there is a need to create a consistent framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30953	The next speaker was Mr Kunasek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e30974	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mrs Bundesminister, you yourself mention the priority set ‘rail in front of road’; that is also a good thing. In the infrastructure sector, important investments are also underway in the coming years. I would like to return to my previous speakers. A very important investment – and we should all be in agreement here – is the Koralm Tunnel and the South Railway. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, particularly Mrs Hakl: Is the ÖVP for this now? Is she against it? Members Steibl from Styria or Fritz Grillitsch or Bernd Schönegger: Are we for that, or are we against the coral tunnel? [[Abg. Steibl: Graz-Umgebung!]] I'll tell you what your country captain's deputy, Schützenhofer, says: Someone questioning the Koralm Tunnel will meet us! – That is why I would really ask you to perhaps also improve communication in this area. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We liberals stand to the Koralm Tunnel! We stand to the South Railway as an important, very important infrastructure project in the coming years for the Styria and for Carinthia, for the whole southern region. A second area, however, in which it is impossible to recognize the priorities of the Federal Ministers for Rail, is the thinning and cessation of direct train connections. It's already come today. Graz – Linz, Graz – Innsbruck, Graz – Salzburg; Graz, Federal Minister, is literally on the storage track! We have already discussed this in committee. I also say quite openly: The argument of the ÖBB regarding economic efficiency is not acceptable to us here! Then the attractiveness must be increased or alternatives found! I know from countless conversations with ÖBB staff that there are these alternatives. You just have to make the effort to look for, find, and then implement these alternatives. One thing has to be clear to us: If we want to make customer satisfaction and get people from the road to the rail, we also need to achieve an increase in attractiveness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, Kunasek and other Members: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is invited to ensure regular direct train connections between the Austrian capitals in the future and to link the maintenance of these direct links to payments under the public services.” If we save in the administration, we save on the manager's salaries, we save on bonus payments – but we do not save on the appeal of the ÖBB and on the train!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31032	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31090	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31112	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Highly esteemed Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to talk exclusively about a subject that I think is somewhat too short in the debate – that is research, innovation, technology – because I know how important it is to you to cooperate between the economy and science. That's really your heart concern. I also believe that the research strategy, which has now been discussed over weeks and months and is in preparation, can be fixed if we decide on the budget in the future and then the positions for the future will be clarified here. In addition, I believe that it cannot be stretched out enough that in times like this 100 million € will be added to the field of applied, close-to-economy research. They have already mentioned that research premiums for companies are increased to 8 percent and 10 percent. I think these are really numbers that can be seen, and I would like to congratulate you very warmly! One However, I still have to cut the area, because Mr Hagen, who is always sitting up there and pretending he has no idea of everything, was indeed the Federal Council in the era Hubert Gorbach and then also the path companion of Hubert Gorbach from FPÖ to BZÖ, under the motto: “The best in the West for the posts in the East” – that’s what it used to be called. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] If one knows what this colleague Hubert Gorbach – and I am not someone else who has done bad to his own country people – in the field of ÖBB and infrastructure, the damage he would have done in the area of ÖBB with the continuation of the filetification, if one knows what would have happened if not the voters had made a correction in 2006, then, I think, you would really have been very concerned, Mr Hagen! I would like to tell you one thing, because you act like you don't do anything in the country, by the way, with the S18: There were only ÖVP and FPÖ – together in the state government, and then Gorbach as the Minister of Transport – to blame for the fact that this road was cut. Now that the Minister is blamed, it's probably cheap! I would like to mention a number, Mr Hagen, because it is simply so impressive, even for our small federal state. A total investment of €675.4 million in the field of ÖBB/railway infrastructure alone between 2011 and 2016. In addition, the ASFINAG funds for road expansion, including Pfänndertunnel et cetera, come with 434 million €. Overall, from 2011 to 2016, this is more than €1.1 billion, and that alone for the small federal state of Vorarlberg! You would have every reason to thank the Minister and not to criticise him here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31163	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31184	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I believe that we have created a balanced transport budget: plus 3% in total economic performance, with a need for consolidation of € 550 million in this budget area. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And what's next? ... as in Lower Austria?]] – Yes, Mrs. Moser, your policy is based on philosophy: Protect the trees, eat more beavers! - But we can't all of us with each other. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Back to transport policy. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Moser.]] - Yes, yes. There are important strategic points in this budget, for which we are very grateful. The topics of Westbahn and Southbahn have been tailored where it is necessary to put in place infrastructure measures. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I don't even have a tree...!]] It is further necessary – but you have no idea – that €33 million will be invested in broadband development. In fact, you should also enjoy this, so that new infrastructures and expansions can also be created in Upper Austria and in rural areas for our businesses. But I would now like to deal with a current issue, Mrs Federal Minister, namely two of your predecessors; the one is Sekanina, the second of today's Chancellors. You may have heard this morning on the radio of the traffic accidents on the alternating track, the “Sekanina-Sparbahn” on the southern motorway, where accidents occur over and over again. Now, under Minister of Transport Faymann, we have achieved that starting with 2009, because on this route three times more accidents than happen in total Austria on comparable motorway routes, a tempo-100 limitation will be set up in the direction of Vienna, limited by the Ministry of Transport's regulation until the end of this year. The figures speak their own language: In 2007, there were 185 accidents on this route, 170 accidents in 2008 and the 100-hour-kilometre limitation regulation followed by 73 accidents in 2009 and 55 accidents in this year. ==References== There was a meeting in the presence of an official from your Ministry of Transport, where I doubt that he has a driver's license at all, because it was established that this measure will only be extended until mid-next year. Then she'll be lifted up. Now let someone who has a driver's license tell me if that makes sense. I'm hoping for reason! I do not want to argue with you now, Mrs Federal Minister – no, not “damage” – but I am sure that you will find a solution here with your practice-related policy. [[Federal Minister Bures: Shame!]] Otherwise, Mr Hechtl from your party and I – and I hope you too – would have to put us on the South Railway as announced and to paralyze this route. That is why I ask you to step in and tell the officials what is really important here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31259	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. The entire remaining speaking time available from the Group is 3 minutes, which I set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31281	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Hakl, now you are thank God again in the hall: I mean, what are you thinking of getting out of here and questioning the coral tunnel?! To this day! [[Abg. Steibl: Exactly! That's your opinion once!]] Even in your own group it is inexplicable why you are once again in the choir of the Mayers and the Wifo-Aigers and as they all are called, agree and torpedo the Koralm Tunnel, a central road axis, once again with any accusations we cannot verify here! [[OBJECTIVES]] I'm just telling you one thing – you say there's still to be built, so many bridges, streams have to be bridged, Stainzbach –: That's all there is! €1.2 billion has already been invested in the route, and the Minister has already granted the Baulos 2. We're already in the tunnel. We are already building the tunnel, and the route is at least fixed on the Styrian side and ready and driveable. Therefore, I really wonder why you are going out of here again and – apparently also against the will of your own group and to the displeasure of your own group – start a debate on the coral tunnel again. If you feel more comfortable with the liberals, then say it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want to secure your political future, you will then be able to move to the next political group, but do not bother this House when it comes to this essential future project, which is not disputed between SPÖ and ÖVP and a majority of this House. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Mrs Bundesminister, what I am busy with today – therefore I am also bringing forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Grosz, Mr Hagen, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Mag. In the case of Widmann, the deterioration by the Federal Government in the promotion of local transport for countries and municipalities. They and many other innovative transport politicians are moving forward in all possible symposia and say: Public transport is our future. The Koralm Railway is public transport! We know through the fine dust load in the big cities, in the agglomerations that we only remain the only way – and it is also good that – to strengthen public transport. Therefore, I wonder why, in this situation, you are going to delete local transport by up to 25 percent, and we in the Styria – classically in Graz – in Klagenfurt, everywhere the problems will be encountered, in all the federal states, the problems of financing this public transport. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that is useful: not in this area, in the field of public transport. Mrs. Federal Minister, save on your ads that you switch everywhere! Page view ads with small passport photo below: “ Your Doris Bures. ” Save with your expenses at the ÖBB, which you, your Mr Haberzettl and your management have to answer, but do not save on the future of this country, namely in the transport and its economics! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31363	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31422	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31443	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the part of the Socialist Group, I should like to say: It is clear to us that the Koralm Tunnel must be built, the Koralm Railway must be built! [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] This, of course, also includes the Semmering Base Tunnel, because – and this has already been noted by my previous speakers a few times – of course, we need a high-performance West Railway also a powerful South Railway. It is therefore necessary to build also the coral tunnel, the Semmering Base Tunnel and the new South Railway. Second point: Mrs Bundesminister, most cordial congratulations on the presentation of this budget! Despite the financial and economic crisis, this budget for 2011 brings a new investment record in the field of infrastructure, and also for future generations, values are created. It is invested wisely and wisely and at the same time saved responsibly. The Federal Minister himself has already said this: Responsible saving, for example, means that not every road must necessarily be a motorway in the future. Over the next six years – and this is no longer too long – almost the incredible sum of €18 billion will be invested in the Austrian transport infrastructure, of which €11.5 billion in the rail and €6.5 billion in the road. Austria needs an environmentally friendly, efficient transport network. Growth and jobs are directly linked to a well-developed infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The fact that around two thirds of the money goes into the rails is, I believe, a clear commitment to public transport and also to more environmental protection. This investment in rail is also necessary because, as we know, large parts of the rail network still originate from the period of monarchy. Therefore, further expansion, the massive expansion of a modern railway infrastructure, is essential. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It should be a little bit on top of that!]] In addition, every euro of the investments addressed will bring back a value added of €2.1 million to the State. But what is even more important, ladies and gentlemen: As a result of the investments made so far, 40 000 jobs were permanently secured! Ladies and gentlemen, in summary: The expansion of infrastructure is crucial for the future of the country. In times of scarce financial resources, the use of the money is particularly targeted. The top priority must be to have a well-developed public transport network and – which is particularly important to me – to shift freight from road to rail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31486	Next speaker: Mr Vock. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31507	My President! Minister! High house! Mrs. Minister has proudly explained to us in the Committee that this budget is more invested in infrastructure. When you see the budget figures, you really see: It will invest more in the infrastructure. At the same time, however, she has also explained to us in the Committee that as a minister she feels only more responsible for the main transport routes – for example the West Railway, for the South Railway – but not for the existing infrastructure of the secondary railways. These are only more sightseeing trains for them, that's just more an attractive side-by-side business that might make a country that might make a private person, but as a minister, she's no longer responsible for that. This non-competence, this incompetence, Mrs Minister, has also repeatedly explained to the honourable Member in reply to questions. You have also explained it to the Court of Auditors in the context of a criticism. Whenever it becomes critical of the ÖBB, the Minister is not responsible. For example, the Court of Auditors has said to private railways: ‘The Centre established the medium-term investment and conservation programme 2005 to 2009 without reference to transport policy objectives and without the establishment of distribution priorities. Funding was partially paid before the conclusion of the contracts and also committed for non-executive projects. The assessment of the use of the funding in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article was not carried out systematically." That is, if, from these points of view, we invest more in the infrastructure, Mrs Minister, then I see this as a threat. That's what I see as a threat of further ruining the ÖBB, because what makes a web interesting? – As a passenger, I don’t care if I drive from Mödling to Vienna for 10 minutes or 15 minutes or if I sit on the train 15 minutes longer when I drive to Graz. Once I sit on the train, I am satisfied customer – hopefully! The problem exists when I sit on the platform if I have no connection if I have no connection if I do not continue with public transport. Then I have a problem – and that is exactly the problem of the sideways. For me, the following is also interesting: At the beginning of this year, we took off the secondary trains to Lower Austria, with an operating obligation until 2030, i.e. for the next 20 years. Now I wonder, Mrs. Minister: Did you come up with the full-bodied promises of the head of state Erwin Pröll? Did he promise you that you could make this great and make the tracks great? Or was it clear to you from the outset that these sideways will only be closed at the end of the day, that everything here is just show? The NÖVOG – this is what you read in public – has been looking for interested persons for the secondary railways for 14 days; 14 days for such investment projects! I'm not surprised you didn't find any investors. As a result of the new timetable, there is a closure of the following tracks: the Schweinbarther Kreuz, the Traisental, the Krumpe – a secondary railway of the Mariazellerbahn –, the Schwarzenauer Cross, the Erlauftalbahn, the Wachauer Bahn. One line after another is set. The side lanes that we have made laboriously are all set up. There you can no longer say that public transport is attractive, but: I’m standing on the platform and where on train, whether the ned is coming – because these sideways are stopped! While politicians of the monarchy showed wide vision and generously developed a railway network with secondary railways, these achievements are today reduced by red and black politicians. The Ministry of Transport has murdered the Lower Austrian secondary railways under your leadership! Head of State Pröll is the grave of the dead!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31553	As the next speaker, I should like to speak to the honourable Member. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31574	Mr President. Minister! I would like to make a brief correction: Head of State Dr. Erwin Pröll is not a grave! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Grosz.]] Experts have long called for a medium- and longer-term financing plan for the ÖBB. [[Abg. Grosz: What is he?]] This financing plan is also intended to include the financial scenario from 2011 to 2020 and to define clear objectives. [[Abg. Grosz: The chief pump veneer?]] Today, every Austrian pays €2 500 per year in tax money, without even having to sit on a train once. [[Abg. Grosz: Candle holder?]] But the managers have proved a special sense of fingertips in the new setting of ticket sales in local trains. [[Abg. Grosz: Armlight?]] In the future, ticket sales on the train will no longer be possible. [[Abg. Grosz: What is your definition?]] – Head of State of Lower Austria! Tickets can only be purchased from the machines via the Internet or by mobile phone. If someone might now be concerned that problems arise for people who cannot deal with these alternatives, be without worry, because for seniors and interested people, the ÖBB will make info tours to the automatic phone. I just hope they don't have to buy a ticket for it before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vock.]] Train crews should continue to be on the routes with self-service in local transport. However, your task will develop from ticket sales towards customer service and control activity. The system is being changed, with the success that we continue to have the train attendants but no longer to cash them, but to punish them on the train. – So customer service looks different! [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Deputies, are you Ministrant?- Oh, my God!]] But You don't need to be afraid to help the workers' chamber. I'm allowed to read an OTS message here for a moment. Quote: “If the machine is defective on the platform, passengers have to prove, according to ÖBB, that they have not been able to buy a ticket. Photography For example, you're using your cell phone to make a broken machine. Only in this way will you have a chance to reduce the additional fee of 65 or 95 euros.” So if you have photographed the defective machines with your mobile phone, might you be able to buy this ticket with your phone afterwards?- Oh, my God! It's really weird what's going on! But a second theme, to the wood transports: Mr Heinzl, you spoke here in advance of this, too, the – but, you have spoken of moving the transport from the road to the rail. [[Abg. Heinzl: Young man, not “grossy”...!]] A really great goal. Only Rail Cargo Austria makes exactly the opposite: With the price increase especially in wood transport, it forces over 200 000 trucks back to the road, otherwise a future industry like the wood industry in Austria could no longer be competitive. That's your policy! That's how ÖBB's customer-friendliness looks! Future path must look different!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31737	The next speaker was Mr Tadler. Set speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31758	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's enough! This magical sentence has led to the breakup of the last government, we know the rest. The population is satisfied with this policy of delaying reforms which have long been announced and have never been implemented: Administrative reform, health reform, education reform, to name just a few. We live in a country of kunctators – these are boarers, depressors. That is why civil disobedience is already forming, which is evident in protest rallies of the population. Formerly important political personalities create pressure on the government to disband the huge reformist stand and get the decision-makers among the poor. Ladies and gentlemen, the time of blockade policy, the friendly economy is over! Both the government parties – they understand best how we have just noticed – will remember this during the next elections. The social partners, the compulsory associations, fry their own juice and congratulate each other on how well and how this system has been paying for decades. Ladies and gentlemen of the social partners, the House is responsible for the legislative process – and not the social partners! A reform of the federal government, countries and Communities have been on for a long time. Especially the churches, as we have read today, stand the water to the neck. The princes also cook their own soups: They are a kind of upper government that subdivided the Federal Government under the leadership of the ÖVP. Here the problem lies in the different responsibilities, it is a skill confusion. That's why nothing goes on, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister, you're already waiting for the ÖBB, but you still have enough work. As well as at Austria's most famous construction site, as Mr. Ferry Maier – he's not in the house – says again and again: The only thing fixed at the ÖBB is the debt. – which will soon become relevant to the Maastricht criteria, as Mrs Moser said. Next March is the end of the ÖBB's financial tricks and outsourced debt. If you pay the debt of the ÖBB, we speak here of 18 billion €, the federal government, then “Good night, Austria! ” Then we really have Greek conditions. Then who will help us? Where is sustainability? Private train providers, such as on the route between Salzburg and Vienna, which is interesting to me, might be able to do so, but only with the same conditions of competition, Mrs Minister! A statement was made yesterday by Mr ÖVP Members. Now to the South Railway: We need to finalise these projects. The burner base tunnel is also to be completed as quickly as possible! Now to this beautiful house: There should be less disputed and more worked – and there should be no actions as senseless or pointless as those that took place yesterday in this building. Otherwise, the population says, as has so often been said about this policy of red and black: It's enough! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31818	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31840	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! In 2009, about 10 percent of compulsory school graduates were unemployed. Every single company is asked to take up apprentices, especially the large enterprises. I would like to address the teaching workshops of the ÖBB and stress that they are essential to helping young people get the chance to work at the highest level on teaching qualifications. The ÖBB as the largest environmentally friendly mobility service provider in Austria invests not only in the new technologies but also in its employees. This is reflected in the quality of training, in the ÖBB teaching workshops, which are characterized by their intensive, innovative training. In addition to technical and commercial competence, projects on social competence, addiction prevention, legal radicalism and integration have gained weight during training, need for the special use of people such as coordinators and teachers. Innovation is also needed for the ÖBB as regards the enthusiasm of young women for technical professions. Currently, 18 percent are female, 328 out of over 1,800 apprentices are female. This is a step in the right direction to constantly increase the proportion of women of 7 percent. It is also exceptional that during the course of the course of the course years the apprentices are practically trained and employed in several places of employment. It will be the This gives them a good overview of the structure of the company so that, at the end of the teaching period, skilled employees in the commercial, transport and technology-oriented area are available to the company. Young, committed top employees with top education are the greatest value of any company. This principle is taken into account in the OeBB teaching workshops. The annual € 20 million in funding and subsidies for apprentices by BMVIT is a very useful investment in the future of young people and in the infrastructure of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31879	Mr Grosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. I expressly recall the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give him the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31903	Mr President. Mr Juryenschlager has said here that the head of state Erwin Pröll would not be a grave to death. I am indeed correcting, in view of his policy of burning Earth he's more like a fireman.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31950	Mr. Col., please! The next speaker was Mr Walser. Fixed speaking time: 1 minute. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] Your group has 2 minutes of remaining speaking time, I will set it up for you. Is that okay? There are still 2 minutes available, and you can get them in full length. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e31980	Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Recently, there have been some events that the Republic has been very expensive to deal with. I would particularly like to address the events at the airport. Vienna remembers: One sees what comes out when parties assert their influence and install high managers. This is the Republic's very, very expensive, that's postage chess to the damage of the Republic! There's supposed to be an end to horror now. What you hear: 350 000 € Finish. In addition, consul contracts, for reasons of rumor, also amount to € 350 000. It is one of the leading tasks of the opposition to exercise control. I think there is a special thanks to our honourable Member Gabriela Moser, who in the last few weeks has provided a lot of attention and cleanliness in this state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is precisely the events at Vienna Airport that show how important it is that we introduce this. For example, even obvious inability so far does not provide a means of dealing with this problem. to ensure that information is available That is why we have tabled this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32038	Mr Delegate Dr. Walser, the request you have now made, has not yet been received from the Bureau in writing. [[Abg. Grosz: No club tour!]] Now, theoretically, there is the possibility that you will sign it with five signatures, which you'll quickly conjure up, or we'll have to ask a question of support. The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32091	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, I would almost try to say: If there's something burned, it's my colleague Grosz's brain! But that would almost be
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32145	Mr Eßl, I call for an order for the statement that Mr Grosz's brain has been burned down, and I ask you to be moderate in the last minutes of this day. Continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32172	Mr President. I have said that I would almost try, but after Mr Faul has already been looking for this institution and has not found it, it is not possible! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Faul also had to go!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us remain serious. When we talk about the budget, we talk about the design of the future. That's important to us. If we also have different opinions and perhaps one or the other would have made a different budget: Politics needs compromises. It is important that, after the crisis scenario, we actually strengthen the finances in order to secure the future for our youth! In budget traffic, innovation and technology, we have a total budget of €2.706 billion. This makes it possible to restore important infrastructure projects. As Salzburger of course, I have to delete some of the projects that are important to me: Salzburg-Freilassing, the line Straßwalchen West, Seekirchen, Hallwang and Elixhausen, the station in Lend. But I would also like to recall the route Golling Bishopshofen, the Pass-Lueg track: It is very important to us for the future. When I get to the road, I say that environmental relief measures in Zederhaus are a priority for us, but I also want to remember the motorway connection in Altenmarkt. It is also important to me – as I would like to join my colleagues in jewelry miners – the story with the loading stations. I think it is absolutely not happening what the ÖBB are doing, because – I take the federal state of Salzburg as an example –: 200 000 solid meters of wood are pushed from the rail to the trucks each year. That's 8,000 lorries! I believe that this is simply not happening in the sense of an environmentally friendly transport policy. Mrs Federal Minister, save You really do elsewhere, save in the system, where privileges reign! A pension reform at ÖBB is necessary! Save You're not where environmentally friendly business is done! I think we can agree with the budget. It makes it possible to look confidently into the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32230	The next speaker is Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32252	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! The Secretary of State is no longer here. What surprised me today in the discussion at the budget: It was only the colleague Tadler who addressed the Brenner Base Tunnel. As a Tyrolean, I am of course very interested in the implementation or further development of this project. What matters to me is: What is the EU's position on moving to the rails? Are there any guarantees on this? Is there a clear statement from the EU? I would also like to ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: When can the Brenner Base Tunnel actually begin? When does this take place – since we have now received from Italy the promise that the funding is available –? What is still a very, very big problem in the Brenner Base Tunnel: With the cuts in the budget, my great concern will probably also be cutbacks here. This is the first time that we have been able The worst reduction that could stand us in the house would be that the passageways of the Brenner Base Tunnel would be a massive burden for the Wörgler and the Unterinntal population, especially in the Unterinntal valley – I speak as a Wörgler. Mrs Bundesminister, I wish you a clear statement: Is there, in fact, the promise that the orbits of the Brenner Base Tunnel will be built underground? I really call on you to make clear statements about this! The Tyroleans have enough promises and want clear answers from you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32297	The next speaker was Mr Stauber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32332	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs Federal Minister, congratulations on this budget! Ordinary, wise is invested where it is necessary, and where it is possible, is also saved. That is, I think, a good and reasonable way of doing things. I congratulate you on that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me as a Carinthian MEP, of course, the Koralm Tunnel is also a very important project, and I have to say that what we have heard today from a certain woman Hakl, that really hits the barrel. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grosz as well as representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think, if many Members have now stressed, for example, by Mrs Collaborative from Tyrol, that the Brenner Base Tunnel is important, by Salzburger, that the Salzburg projects are important, then of course also for us Kärntner and Steirer of the Koralm Tunnel is important and the whole South Railway project. That's what we're standing for. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grosz as well as representatives of the FPÖ.]] A project that has been decided here in this House, which is financed by the countries of Carinthia and Styria, which is recognised by the EU, for which already 1.4 million € have been installed and 600 million € have already been granted, is still in question, that is really questioning whether you, Mrs Hakl, know what economics is and how to put money in the sand. I think you know that very well. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Grosz: For the Protocol: The ÖVP Deputies nod well!]] It is also beneficial to hear that today, cross-border, across all political borders, a commitment to this coral tunnel has been made, except for Mrs Hakl and Mr Ferry Maier, who spits in the soup and always finds something on this project. But there are also reasonable forces in the ÖVP. And if Mrs. Hakl has said that we should move on to a common strand, then tell the reasonable, please, at which end she should go so that we all move in the same direction and not against each other. Thank you very much, and I hope we will continue to build this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32404	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Josef Auer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32429	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr Vock, I can assure you that graves are rather darkly dressed with us in Tyrol, i.e. dark blue or black, in all cases they are not red-dressed. Thank God we have a red minister, and that brings everything to the rails politically. It knows, of course, that an economic location also needs good transport networks, especially environmentally friendly transport networks, and that is why it is comforting to say: We've got everything on track with our wife's minister. Above all, the railway infrastructure is still in annoyance a lot from the past, and there it is actually the opposite of a grave. As a matter of fact, it has to do a lot of resurgence and recovery efforts, and this, of course, costs money. Thank God we are now on the trail as far as the infrastructure is concerned, and if you're on the trail, you have to look at the rear mirror, I think. When I look into the rear-view mirror regarding yesterday, I must say that Mrs. Fürntrath said yesterday that the debt policy under Bruno Kreisky was created or that Bruno Kreisky was the senior debtor. I picked this out. 13 years of sole government Bruno Kreisky, then in Schilling 420 billion debts, and then the black party added the ÖVP, which were also 13 years, and it was 110 percent more. That's 981 billion. That's what happened. In addition, it has been a time when there have been many, many renewals in which there have been many expansions, especially when I am thinking about the graves of education policy. At that time, the number of teachers was doubled, many secondary schools were built, and, and. So we built infrastructure for the future at that time, and of which we can still live today. So I hope you won't say anything like that in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32466	The next speaker was Mr Haberzettl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32498	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Grosz, an offer: Christmas peace? [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, exactly!]] Okay. Mrs Hakl, I think starting a discussion today about the coral tunnel is simply shed milk and a little sleepy time. The coral tunnel is so on track that it is irreversible. The train is driving and can't be stopped anymore. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Grosz.]] To be honest, we should have had the discussion before. We can discuss a lot more about the burner, but you may not want to do that again, that we are discussing the burner, because this is where the next stage starts. However, I am now allowed to go back to the year 2003 because I think in view of various statements here today, some seem to forget what happened in 2003. I would remind you of the Restructuring ÖBB Transport Subcommittee in 2003. There was a hearing in the local VI, and I told you then that there will be a huge problem with this structure in five to seven years. You've got the problem on the table now. You regret the pricing in the transport of wood, you regret the pricing in the food sector. Yes, you have sent the ÖBB into independence, and an independent company simply has regulations according to which it has to balance and according to which it has to be calculated. That's what you have to answer! And now you have the problem: You can't deal with it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Well, you're talking about the infrastructure. It's a little different. They must not exchange apples and pears. You have a teacher sitting there, of course, that's right, but be honest: Which company in this Republic do you expect the pension costs? Not at Siemens, no police, no government service, just the ÖBB. Take a mirror and keep it in mind! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that's how I'd ask you to deal fairly with this company. You did one thing, Mr State Secretary: As a member of a federal government, they have made their own company, together with the public employees there, so ready that it would be a disaster if this company were on the stock market. This is negligent, if not even deliberate, of a company. That's how reality looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I still want to get to the point. I would like to congratulate the Federal Minister for having fulfilled a task in which many fears have been released to insiders. She has settled a savings contract in her ministry without having to reduce the area of public transport services and without having to cancel planned investments. It has probably touched and stretched the timeline, but it has ultimately not called into question the investment itself. And I think that was a huge achievement, because in the end we would have had a slightly negative change in the public sector, a price increase for the commuters. And I think that would really have been a disaster. However, I would also like to take a brief look at the future, because the budget ultimately says something about what the future in transport policy looks like. And I think there are some choices here that will become very important in the future discussion. [[Abg. Vock: Go to the terminal station!]] In the future, we will have a discussion on the White Paper on the future of transport with a perspective for 2020. We have an initiative on sustainable transport, namely a revision of the TEN guidelines. This is the definition of a comprehensive network and a core network, and we also need to discuss and ultimately develop strategies for transport technologies, up to the introduction. But what's very important is: We also have to develop a transport safety package from a strategic perspective with a road safety guide. These are absolutely necessary steps to be taken in the area of transport liberalisation. We have – and this is especially the case for caution – to discuss a so-called recast of the first railway package next year. Here, I think, we have to be very sensitive, because exactly the things already mentioned then come to the fore again. A pricing in the transport of wood is still a relic of the old state railway in the Republic of Austria, a transport in the food sector is still a relic from the old state railway, therefore the movement through the new management there too. I think it's wise what's happening here, I think it's right what's happening here. Here, the mistakes made seven years ago are eventually either reworked or at least thematicated. Mrs. Federal Minister! I wish you every success in 2011! Unfortunately, it is a small savings course, but you will also master it. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32594	The next speaker was Mr Keck. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32615	Mr President. Minister! The UG 41 section of the budget is really a real chapter of the future, because this is about massive investments in the rail – we have already heard it with the Koralm tunnel – and also into the road. Orders will be awarded both to the domestic economy and to the creation of sustainable mobility, and, unlike it was claimed here, we will continue the infrastructure offensive with this budget. There will also be more funds for railway infrastructure in 2011. They rise by 40 percent to around €1.5 billion. It will therefore continue to invest in the safety of the railway, it will continue to invest in the maintenance of the railways, it will continue to invest in the expansion of the railway capacity and it will continue to invest in railway stations. It will be saved where a review will give rise to this. And not without reason, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Chamber of Labour therefore considered the measures in the area of UG 41 of the budget to be clearly positive. It also sees that this budget also makes a reasonable transport policy with a steering effect. By increasing the funds by 3.1 percent – the €17.1 million – for public services in passenger transport, we will continue to act, for example, for those people who need public transport daily, namely for the commuters. In their name too, the funds provided in the UG 41 can be described as good and correct investments.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32645	As the last speaker of today's day, Mr Grossruck has been mentioned. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32677	At the end, he always comes, not at the beginning. That would be a stylistic break. Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is not a disadvantage to get to the end of speaking, because now there are still more here than in the early days if you had been first speakers. Some of them do, but that doesn't matter. [[towards FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Although I'm from Upper Austria, don't worry, I'm not going to go to the West Tangente and the Westfahrung now, although I've read in the Teletext today that the Mühlkreis motorway and the Linz motorway with 28 million vehicles are now among the most frequented in Austria and therefore, I think, it is necessary that the Westring comes with a corresponding solution and variant. . and I am convinced that Mr Pühringer together with you, together with Mr Bundeskanzler, together with Mr Finanzminister, will bring about an appropriate solution for Upper Austria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I wrote two points, Mrs. Federal Minister. It's just little things, but I think the little things are bothering people, and they're annoying about it. It's usually annoyed by little things. One thing is that there is still no solution in the vignettes when I have a change mark. I would ask you to find a solution as soon as possible, because if I have two cars and a change mark, I can only drive with one, I can only use the motorway once. And those who may live in a city and use a small car for city trips, I think they also have a right to be treated fairly. It doesn't cost anything, it would just be a solution. I'd like to. Second, Mrs. Federal Minister: I would ask you to also take action in the European Union, although consumer protection is not Their place of business is that passenger rights, especially when flying, are also increased, for example, if someone fails. Not that it is as it happened to a colleague of mine who wanted to go to Albania in the context of an aid measure. He couldn't fly because he had an accident. The flight was cancelled, and it did not get the flight costs back even though it had a replacement. It wasn't possible. This is in my eyes today, where the light bulbs, where everything is regulated, are a scandal that such a thing is still possible. But I'm coming to the end, ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming to the four-liner. Yesterday we had an ominous session, which, I think, went thoroughly into the pants for those who believed they could score. Because if you've heard/looked at the media today, you could find that it hasn't been much reported. The people we have talked to today have had no understanding of the six or seven hours of voting. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the matter!]] I got some phone calls, even from home, where people asked me if we still have all the cups – not us, but some inside – in the closet. It was yesterday, I think, the most expensive kindergarten in Austria we had and the last-class Kasperl Theatre in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] That's what I want to call it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's such a scrap you're talking about! You are unbearable as a Member! You have no idea!]] Yes, please, Mr. Kogler. You can talk for another five hours. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You only make the government the robbers! You won't be paid for that!]] As I would have preferred, we would have gone out in the six hours, would have gone to an asylum home and might have distributed soups there or cooked them. That would have been much more productive than what you did yesterday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: An incredible nonsense what you're talking about!]] So now comes my four-liner, Mr Kogler, to restore Christmas peace. I have a Christmas wish for you, Mr Kogler. Listen to me, Mr Kogler, my Christmas wish for you and your group to the Christian Child: I have a wish, not the least. Dear Christian Child, that you know him: Come to Pentecost this time and send us the Holy Spirit now!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32789	Mrs Bures has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32810	Thank you many times, Mr President. I thought that Mr Grossruck's four-liners were well suited as the final words of this evening. I just wanted to, if I were You will not quote me to Parliament tomorrow, the opportunity to wish you a happy Christmas. I look forward to further good cooperation next year. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32840	There are no more words available to me. This will allow these topics to be dealt with. I am now interrupting the session by Wednesday, 22. ==References== After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the consultation of subheadings 25, 33, 40 of heading 4: Economic, infrastructure and the environment. Before interrupting the meeting, I would draw attention to the fact that 5 minutes after this meeting, a meeting of the main committee will take place at the local VI. The sitting was suspended. [[20:58:20]] [[The meeting was held on Tuesday, 21. ==References====External links== Done at Brussels, 9 December 2010.]] [[09:05:22]] Continued the meeting: Wednesday, 22. December 2010, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32902	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll take the 91 interrupted. National Council meeting again. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Katzian and Ing. Hofer. We continue with the budget consultation. I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e32942	A block-time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ was decided for today’s meeting day, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116, FPÖ 100, Green 84 and BZÖ 80 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were also adopted on the basis of a presidential round: During the television period from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m., sub-divisions 40, 33 and 25 – economy, family and youth – are debated together. Each group has a total speaking time of 41 minutes. It is free for the political groups to see how many speakers they make each. However, the individual speaking time for the first speaker or for the first speaker is not more than 14 minutes, that of the other speakers for a maximum of 9 minutes. The call of speakers, speakers takes place according to the principle of counter/pro. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period. The speaking time of the government bank during this debate is up to 15 minutes and comes exclusively from the ÖVP. The further design of the debate is known. [[09:07:22]] Heading 4 (Economic, Infrastructure and the Environment) (continued) [[09:07:23]] UG 25: Family and Youth UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33010	We are now moving towards the continuation of the negotiations under heading 4 (Economics, Infrastructure and the Environment). The following are included in the consultation: Family and Youth, 33: Economy (Research), as well as 40: Economy. First of all, Mr Themessl. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33035	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of State! A good morning also the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A nice morning also to all the spectators at home and here in the plenary! Yes, Federal Minister, if you look at the budget economy and take away the part that is meant for families there, you can see that you have only a minimum budget at your disposal. [[Abg. Grill: That's not true!]] But that's not really the serious point. The serious point is that, in this budget, there are absolutely no strategies and no visions as to how economic policy in Austria should be made in the future, and that is actually the fatale of this whole thing. But the whole thing started two years ago when this Ministry of Economic Affairs was separated from the Ministry of Labour. I will explain to you just one example why this was a fatal mistake. They cannot separate economics and work today, not even in the ministry, because this directly belongs together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know that the Austrian economy is very small-structured and today it is not the case that in a three-, four- or five-man operation, the boss is the big over-over-the-counter, while the small underrun is the worker. It is also, in principle, wrong to speak of employers and employees, but here we are only talking about workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to give you an example of why this separation of ministries was so fatal. You, Minister of Economic Affairs, as a lobbyist of the industry in Austria have been yelling for months now, partly for years after experts who lack us in Austria. We are currently talking about 40 000 skilled people who are missing in Austria. They know as well as all other experts that these are currently not to be obtained in this order abroad. On the other hand, over the AMS we have over 70,000 Austrians in so-called AMS trainings that are absolutely beyond the needs. But you are unable to bring your Minister of Labour torfers to the point of finally redesigning these AMS courses so that it is also possible to train appropriate specialists in the areas where they are missing. And that is the first mistake why this cannot work if the Minister of Labour is still a red one and, anyway, not your best friend and you as Minister of Economic Affairs are a black man who has absolutely no budget and has absolutely no influence on what is happening. So – and now we are in the Austrian economy. You know that in international comparison we are not as good as you have been trying to make this happen for two days. For two days I've heard nothing but: We in Austria are the best, we have the least unemployed in Europe, we have the best economic data, the best economic forecasts. – You know that all this is not so right. First, you should know, Dr Bartenstein, that Europe not only covers the EU countries, but also Switzerland lies in the middle of Europe, that Norway is also in Europe. You know that for unemployment, Switzerland and Norway are much better off than Austria, and I have to admit that the unemployment rate in Austria is not so bad. But from economic growth, of course, we are only medium-sized in this Europe and also within the EU. Of course, other countries are much stronger in economic growth data. As a matter of fact, the whole thing starts that you are completely lacking the strategies for how the small-structured economy is to develop in Austria in the next few years. You know we need a reindustrialization, from which you are far away. They know, for example, that in the pay-dependent taxes Austria is far away from any reality at 31.6 percent compared to Germany at 19.3 percent. In other words, we are absolutely not competitive in international comparison if we fail to reduce these charges accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, Minister of Economic Affairs, if we could reduce this to Germany's share, then you would save the Austrian company €8 billion of costs a year and then we would be competitive not only in European comparison, but of course also in international comparison. Now we are moving on to the industry and to the question of why, in Austria, growth figures do not indicate what they should actually produce compared to other EU countries. You know exactly that in Austria, compared to Germany, there has been much less investment in the last two years. This is linked to the fact that, of course, this banking crisis has still led to a credit gap in the Austrian market, and above all with the fact that you are not able to make economic policy in Austria and finally to say goodbye to purely banking policy. You have now abolished the credit contract fee, which is certainly a positive aspect to be mentioned. However, they have forgotten that the company tax continues to remain in the size of one percent. That is to say, for Austrian companies already characterised by having a very low capital ratio, They do not encourage an increase in this equity ratio by promoting money for their own company or company participation. They abolished the credit contract fee, but forgot to abolish the company tax. You have repeatedly called for this as the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce itself. So I hope you stay there. Now I come to a few facts that show what you have not even tried to prevent outside your budget and what else has happened to the Austrian economy. You have additionally burdened the domestic travel industry with €330 million by the ticket charge. They have burdened the tourism industry and the services sector with €300 million by removing the energy refund. An example: A medium-sized hotel, about 120 beds, has an additional load of about 5 000 € per year. A smaller thermal plant has around 80 000 € per year of additional load. The SMEs and SMEs are taxed by the asset tax in the order of €430 million. Those you wanted to meet, the casino speculators, are not there at all, or they don't meet you with it. Fuel prices continue to rise. They charge the domestic transport industry for a fee. Thousands of jobs depend on it, you know it very well. The bank tax becomes a purely SME tax because the banks have already announced that they will, of course, continue to charge it. With the excessive increase in tobacco tax – I explained this to you yesterday – you have threatened disabled jobs specifically in border regions, hundreds of people who will continue to depend on alms. You have damaged the domestic export industry by not preventing the assembly system. There is no counterstrategy to date. You know what I'm talking about. And then you have allowed the ÖVP Environment Minister to plunder the Old Load Rehabilitation Fund and, at the same time, to increase the fees. And you will also tax the gastronomy companies and also other companies in Austria through the AGES fee from 2012 on. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, I can only ask you. I think you know this paper. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This paper is a strategy paper “Calling Administrative Costs for Enterprises”, a list of measures dated 26. At the time, they were still in this working group under Vice-Chancellor Molterer. On 19 pages, more than 130 points are put forward, which measures are intended to discharge Austrian companies. And if you manage to list me only 10 per cent of these 130 measures, Mr Federal Minister, I wish you a great deal of pleasure. You didn't do anything! If you want to maintain the economic location of Austria in the future and do not want to continue to endanger the Austrian economy and thus jobs, then do something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33100	Mr Haubner is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33122	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have all experienced it in recent years, we have had an economic crisis and this economic crisis has taken us all very much. But above all she has called for the economy, every individual entrepreneur and every single entrepreneur very massively. Our economy, however, has kept the course in this crisis, and that was absolutely crucial. Many small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and, of course, industrial enterprises have kept their employees on the holding and have therefore set themselves on training and innovation in the economic flea. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian entrepreneurs note that when it comes to doing so, they are also there for their employees and cooperate in a cooperative way. It was the economy with its employees that kept the state motor, the Austrian economic engine running and, despite poor forecasts, set it on innovation instead of on resignation. And I think that's very important, ladies and gentlemen. Efforts have paid off. If you look at this – and I do not agree with my colleague Themessl – then we see that we have an economic upturn, and that is the merit of entrepreneurs. This upturn is borne by the export economy. We will also crack the 100 billion € limit again this year. And this is a merit of the Austrian entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it is a savings budget, because we want to exercise our political responsibility and also need to ensure that we keep the debt of the state under control and thus ensure stability in the country. But I would like to thank the Minister Mitterlehner for having also taken economic strengthening measures at this stage. With measures of thermal rehabilitation, with the increase in the research rate and, you mentioned, with the abolition of the credit contract fee, we have made important contributions for our entrepreneurs so that their stability, liquidity and flexibility are strengthened and they can also be properly managed. And we are – Mr Themessl, we are not worse than we are – absolute top in international comparison. We have economic growth, and the OECD is forecasting a stable 2% by 2012. We are at the top of the labour market, in Austria we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe at 4.8 percent, and we are absolute leaders in youth employment. As far as youth employment is concerned, dual training in Austria is one of the success systems of our training. We must therefore continue to promote this occupational apprenticeship training. It is a very central element, because if more than 40 percent of young people opt for an apprenticeship, then I must say that our businesses are attractive trainers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria we have a solid economic structure, consisting of small and medium-sized enterprises and industrial enterprises, and a strong medium-sized group. This is the backbone of our economy. Ladies and gentlemen! On Sunday, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said at the “press hour” that we have to relieve the labour factor. - Yes, that's the right announcement. The factor work has to be relieved! [[Abg. Dolinschek: Mr Haubner! Do it, don't talk!]] We have one of the highest rates of taxation in Europe, and here we are required. But this cannot work through property taxes, because property taxes are property taxes, and property taxes are poison for the economic location of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are thus endangering the economic location, the companies, and we are risking jobs. And that is why there is hardly a country in Europe where there are wealth taxes. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: There are them everywhere!]] And if there are wealth taxes, then they will be abolished just like in France. That is why we need a new approach, and here I am with you, Mr Themessl: We need expenditure-side savings potential. papers for this are on the table, and after this first step of consolidation of the State budget, the second step is to address the implementation of these reforms. That is why I believe that we are required in Austria to continue to be a stable place of life and business in the future. Better renew our systems than tax our property! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33201	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek will speak next. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33223	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In these sections, which we are now discussing, the most difficult package of savings is probably hidden under this budget, namely the cuts in the family sector. That is why I would like to dedicate my speech to these cuts. This is particularly true in view of the fact that the Federal Government is constantly saying: Yes, there is quite a pressure and pain punk in this budget. – These terms have always startled me a little, because what does that mean: Pressure and pain points of a budget? – There are essentially pain points and pressures for many families, especially those who have children – i.e. parents, fathers and mothers with small children, with children in education, with children studying – who are completely disproportionately affected by this budget. I would like to ask you once again to look at the arguments with which They meet these families. The ÖVP is very happy to argue with the debt mountain of the future, which it does not want to hand over to the children and to the grandchildren. Jobs You are a family with three children, four children or five children! [[Abg. New builder: There is no longer any more!]] There's just everyday life, every hour, every day, just dealing with everyday life is an incredible achievement, and I'm in front of such families because I'm always wondering: How do parents manage with three children? - I only have two. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then the argument of the ÖVP comes: It's an alternative. We must not leave our children a mountain of debt! – So, instead, are those children who already have a hard time, who are already at risk of poverty, continuing to fall into poverty traps? – That cannot be a reasonable argument! No one has ever argued against it and claims that the budget does not have to be consolidated. Of course, the budget needs to be consolidated. But They signal these families that there is no alternative to save €20 million than to make their situation and situation even worse for their children. And that can't be an argument! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be that there is no other measure throughout the federal budget that will bring in € 21 million. That is also what hurts so much: that one has not made the effort to avoid such hardships. But that's not the only hardness. As far as the reduction of family aid from 26 to 24 is concerned, we do not give up, even if you have already decided to do so at night from Monday to Tuesday in a natural vote. We will continue to fight this. We will continue to support these families. Whoever has a studying child, who has two studying children, knows what this is for a financial burden. And if you know that only 16 percent of students actually finish until 24, then you must be aware that you have created a bureaucratic monster here, because now the rest, the remaining 85 percent of students need to be lit through with regard to their entire life schedule to see if they are perhaps still entitled to claim. We'll fight this. In any case, we will go to the Constitutional Court with those concerned. We will support them legally, procedurally and also from the back reinforcement to bring them down. And the chances are good! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Could it be that for the € 18 million, for the € 14 million, which mainly concern young people seeking work, there was no alternative in the entire federal budget? How can it be that children seeking work between 18 and 21, unemployed young people, anyway one of the weakest groups in our society, young people who find no work and are therefore in a very difficult situation, delete family support? How can there be no alternative for this €14 million? Mr Kopf, perhaps you can explain this to these families. This concerns young people right after completion of vocational training. Here again and again the Austrian labour market is greatly praised. Nevertheless, we must not forget: Although the situation is not so bad compared to other countries, since 2008, we have had an increase in youth unemployment by a quarter! In other words, this group of persons affected by this measure has grown significantly since the crisis. And they need additional support and no less support right now in the crisis! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The argument with the debt mountain for the youth is so painful because it is not comprehensible for the families concerned. I have now received a lot of calls, which has touched me very much, also from families from Carinthia, who say: We're fighting! We have three, four children, we have a agriculture, we have a secondary sector, and for us these family benefits were an important additional income, so we somehow did it. – These are women who are in front of burnout because they work very hard from childhood, then put the children into the world, continue working and now get the signal from the government: There's no alternative but to hurt you even further. There are over 100,000 young people and children in Austria who are vulnerable to poverty or are living in poverty. That means sitting in front of the Christian tree or considering this week: Okay, that's probably not going to end with the ski course. The gifts my child or my children wished for will probably not go out either. – I think that is absolutely unreasonable, and you should consider it again. You have another chance that it won't be real. It's the very last chance today. But I think these families will never forget this and never forgive you that you have found no alternative in the entire federal financial law in this situation. However – and, Mr Family Minister, now comes the next strike, and that is something you should also be very interested in as an economic minister. I have rarely been of an opinion with my colleague Andreas Khol, who probably still remembers some of the elderly in the house, but I am absolutely in agreement with him today and here when he says about Austrian family policy: “You have to admit completely ideology-free and objectively that family policy has failed – the motto “More money for families means more births” was not successful. So we have to consider what we’ve done wrong.” – That’s a good approach. You can also think about what you've done wrong. – “And there you see, compared to Sweden or France, that we are far too few childcare facilities” – listen now! – “or have all day schools.” – Andreas Khol, 8. ==References== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] Yeah, what's the consequence? – The Minister of Economic Affairs announces that the 2011 kindergarten expansion will continue to be restricted, that the millions of expansions made available to the countries will be reduced. [[Abg. Steibl: The countries have a responsibility!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is country competence!]] – Yes, this is country competence, of course. And who is financing the countries, who is financing the expansion? – This is federal competence. If you think that's none of our business, you'll be so fooled. That's one of the most important tasks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The country's competence in childcare results in the quality of childcare being dependent on the postal code. [[Abg. Hornek: That's abstrus what you're saying!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is a completely crazy system: There are 16 children sitting there. 8. There it closes at 12 o'clock, there at 4 o'clock. - That's not a state! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hornek and Mr Wöginger as well as other ongoing calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] - No wonder you're so upset. They come from Lower Austria, and there the situation is particularly bad. [[Abg. Wöginger: Upper Austria!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Minister of Economic Affairs, I appeal to you: Consider this, think about it really thoroughly, in this federal grant to say this expansion especially for the smallest between zero and three years, we will now evaluate – as you do not need to evaluate for long, when you look at the situation – to continue waiting here and to worsen the situation here! Such a fool! I can only ask you: If in a child who is two years old, in a group care two persons, two women care for 16 children, do you find that all right? Three to four children come to a caregiver where this is well regulated. And then you wonder about the PISA results?- Oh, my God! – You can’t help anymore! Listen to Andreas Khol, I can only say! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude – last sentence –: If families – in your division, that is, parents with children – are really important to you, then bring down this family package! Otherwise, you have lost any credibility as a family party ÖVP forever.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33391	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give the next speaker the floor, I should like to ask you, first of all, to lower the sound level – it is such a loud murmur here in the hall; the impression it conveys is not the best – and secondly, as far as the calls are concerned, they are of course part of it, but I can also ask for a certain amount of discipline. [[Abg. Bucher: That is true, Madam President. But with us too!]] I call Mr Matznetter. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33422	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! We are in the year two and a half, not quite 27 months after the outbreak of the most severe economic and financial crisis in the last 80 years. Yeah, it hasn't been since the Lehman Brothers went into bankruptcy. [[Abg. Bookers: Thank God, otherwise you do not even know what you should talk about, whom you should blame!]] We have therefore reached a point where we can take stock of what has happened to us and how it continues. And the chapter Economics in the budget for the crisis year three and the cleanup work for what has so far been done is a good opportunity to do so. I would like to point out where Mr Haubner rightly stressed that in Austria, through the small-scale structure of many small and small enterprises, it has succeeded in maintaining employment in the country to the extent that we are a brilliant model for Europe as a whole. [[Abg. Bucher: Who? – A negative lighthouse, or what?]] In this case, thanks will be paid to all those involved, to entrepreneurs, to workers who have also proved themselves in such difficult stages: Social partnership works not only in the political field, it works best at the operational level, because the people in Austria are hardworking people and in such situations prove that they can stand together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On this occasion, however, because the opposition has now used so many days to remind a government that really does not need to put its light under the threshold of confronting accusations: We have prevented us from losing hundreds of thousands of industrial jobs through the short-term work arrangements in Austria. We were able to keep a core substance in the industrial sector, we were able, through the additional measures in the labour market resources, to continue and continue to work at this time. With the extension of the research funds, with the extension of the funding in the area of Austria's economic services, but also the economic packages of the countries – I am thinking of micro-credits, as they have been in Vienna and Styria – to the small ERP action, where Minister Mitterlehner has made it possible to get something like that from €10,000 on, with all these measures we have succeeded in number one in unemployment. This is a success, we are proud of it, and there goes a thank you to all those who have participated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But let us also use this opportunity to ask the question: How did we even get into this crisis? It's time, right now, when we've done some cleanup work together, all those - often surprisingly very conservative people - who have talked about deregulation over the last 20 years, who have said that the state no longer needs us, we don't need rules to ask the question anymore: Was all this so right? Was a qualified regulation that ensures that a master business is the worst? Was a secure working relationship, and not “here and fire”, not a basis for having such great successes that, when an Austrian company goes abroad, the orders are given to the Austrians because they work perfectly? [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's over!]] All this has proved that those who were a little more conservative, who have not followed every neoliberal demand of the stock exchanges and shareholder, are today the first to start through in Europe. These are Germany and Austria. Great Britain and other countries are no longer able to build a sector. In the U.S., the industry is even broken. That's why we need to make sure it works. Here is a brief comment on the property tax because the topic of SMEs was addressed by Mr Haubner: That's why Federal Chancellor Faymann said that from a million € net assets! The spectators know that this is more than 14 million schilling. I'm sorry, our tourism companies – which by the way, in this crisis, have been well cared for by the guests and have also been successful – always have their credit for the hotel, as no one has a net value of more than one million €. The trams don't have it, the commercials don't have it, the small workshops don't have it. They're not. But we have 67,000 financial-euro-millionaires, around half the Wörthersee, with the houses by the lake. Honestly, this says to friends!; most of the time it is men who own it – they can pay a little bit. Then we wouldn't have to listen to the criticism of the family package. We should continue to think in this direction. This does not harm and benefits the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One important point: Mr. Themessl has claimed that we are not doing anything because of the findings of the Constitutional Court, which takes away the tax freedom of foreign assembly. First of all: It's a part of the tax competition. On the world markets, every country, almost every country in any form, manages its businesses to work with tax advantages at the foreign construction site. – This is a hard work! These are people who live in the container who have to be gone for a long time, no question. But we could not simply improve the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. We have therefore – and you yourself have participated in a long session marathon – now decided: Two thirds will remain tax-free from next year, one third from the next year. But this is not a permanent solution, because our businesses are in competition next year and next year, and there is a danger that our employees, more than 20 000, will lose their jobs. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want a solution that continues to provide for old tax freedom outside the Union and a corresponding exemption within the Union. There you will see, Mr Themessl: We are also on the side of businesses and their employees. They are the ones that make this country run. And our country is running great, too, because of the government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33527	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33584	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Bucher with a speaking time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33605	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On which side are red and black, you can see that even if you look into the budget. Only, Mr Matznetter, this is absolute neoliberal policy that you represent here. This is neoliberal politics! They put the money behind the banks. Banks can't see how they get money in Austria and across Europe! [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] – That is not to be surpassed in neoliberal thought! All of this, Mr Matznetter, without genuinely constructive and functioning financial market surveillance, is neither in Austria nor at European level, without bankruptcy rights for banks. [[Abg. Riepl: You have led Carinthia to the BZÖ!]] Think about it once! You were also in the Ministry of Finance once, since you could have been able to deal with these rules for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Read the protocols...!]] And now you're creating a bank charge! – Mr Matznetter, the bank levy – you should know that already because you are an auditor – will ultimately be transferred to bank customers. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... and 600 don't pay!]] That's the most natural thing in the world. Every company that receives fixed costs overturns it to the customers, thus increasing the final price. [[Abg. Dolinschek: This always pays the final consumer!]] That's the simplest thing in the account, and you should finally understand that. But this is also the economic policy of Red and Black: always only for the banks and for the corporations to be there. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Madam President. You know, I'm from Carinthia. We have a dwarf park in Carinthia in the beautiful Gurktal. [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] For me, in the past it was always clear that the dwarfs winter in private, but for me it is new that the dwarfs from the Gürktaler Zwergerlpark winter in Parliament. I didn't know. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And I didn't know that they're talking so loud from the back of the ÖVP either. [[Abg. Scheibner: They're always just loud...!]] But this is literally economic policy à la ÖVP by shortening research resources. [[Abg. Riepl: In your economic policy, you have seen where it leads anyway!]] The applied industrial research is being punished! You should also consider, Minister of Economic Affairs, why the small and medium-sized economy always falls through the rust when it comes to research. They know that if they want to remain innovative in the economy, small businesses also need to invest in research in the order of 20, 30 employees. However, access to research resources is constantly hampered by the creation of own research facilities. Yes What company with a size of 20, 30 employees can afford its own research site? This brings together research and production. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] That is why, if you want to support the small and medium-sized economy, you should start the promotion there, not always in science, at universities and at the corporations, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Innovation takes place everywhere, no matter what size a company has. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The funds are also reduced in Austria's economic service – again the small and medium-sized economy that is being exhausted. [[Abg. Wheeler: Tag Taferl!]] The barrel to overflow now brings the new food tax. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – That is where the dwarfs start yelling again, Madam President. [[Abg. Grosz: In the back are the lutes, and in front they need...!]] Austria Economic Service and now the food tax. Every farm, any small, medium-sized business in Austria, which comes into contact with food, now has to pay a tax. 40 million €, ladies and gentlemen, will contribute to the reform of the Marod cash registers of the Minister for Finance. Who else can see that? We have introduced the HCCP, this hygiene regulation, many years ago by Red and Black, which already makes life difficult for every food dealer and producer, and now he has to pay a food tax! [[Abg. Grosz: This is Raubrittertum!]] No one sees that anymore! This food tax, like many other tax increases and measures taken by the Federal Government, will also help to increase prices to the level that we will have higher inflation in the next few years. But that cannot be in the interest of social democracy in particular. Finally, you should understand that high inflation is the tax of small income recipients. Do you finally understand this and incorporate it into your political considerations? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] They're cutting down on important infrastructure projects. The major infrastructure projects, ladies and gentlemen, have been pushed to the long-term! [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner:... Voodoo!]] This is not a voodoo fencer, Mr Federal Minister, but it is apparently a matter of looking at your budget. They should once take a cross-cutting interest in, for example, the reduction in infrastructure, which cuts are made in the municipal area, because the municipalities are simply pleading and have no more money. However, the municipalities are the largest client of the Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] This will also be felt by the small, medium-sized economy, and these enterprises will be affected by the withdrawal of public investment. In addition, we have given great support to banks who have received the money – without supervising them and without ensuring that these money injections are actually passed on to businesses in the form of loans, because the companies need the money for investments and to maintain their infrastructures and operational services. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All of this takes place against the background of a highest tax country: 44 percent tax and tax rate. [[Abg. Wheeler: Taferl!]] There are only two countries throughout Europe that have a higher rate of tax and tax than Austria, namely Sweden and Denmark. Are we to be proud of the “High Tax Park ”?- Oh, my God! And that at the same time growing debt! Ladies and gentlemen! The debt is growing faster than the economy, which is the dogma of Mr Pröll's economic policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now we also see – the Dwarf Park ÖVP reports again – the debt trick you are doing here, that you want to hide the entire debt level that will build up there in the next few months from the countries and communities. [[The speaker shows a copy of a newspaper article.]] This is the perversion behind this budgetary policy, because in reality we do not owe €200 billion in Austria, but € 260 billion in debt. [[Call the ÖVP:Kärnten!]] They hide the debts of our country with your hat games in extra-budget areas, in the Asfinag, in the ÖBB, in the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, in the municipalities and in the countries, and do not trust to tell the truth what debt we actually have and how burdened Austria is! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That is why the BZÖ's foreign exchange is opposed to this Federal Government of Red and Black because it is unable to take real reforms and reform the budget against taxes. It would be high time to make a tax reform and lower taxes instead of raising them. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Lower taxes lead to more tax revenue, ladies and gentlemen, so it is necessary to counter tax, to be reformed, to be modernized so that performance is again worth it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33908	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e33929	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Values Watchers in front of the TV screen! Back to Family Policy: The present generation must not live at the expense of its children and grandchildren. I think that's what we're all aware of. This means that now it is necessary to save to ensure Austria's family benefits in a sustainable way – and this is also our concern. This is also the concern of the Federal Government with Chancellor Werner Faymann of SPÖ, and Deputy Minister of Finance Josef Pröll wants and must prevent public debt from growing further. This should also be a concern for the opposition, the Greens, the BZÖ and the FPÖ, although the discussions, whether in the Committee on Budgets or in the last few days here, do not go in this direction. [[Abg. Bookers: 8 billion more debts!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Of course, it's us too!]] I think that you are not acting responsibly, you have to say this clearly here, because just betting about something and not having any proposals is too little. [[Abg. Bucher shows a table entitled “BZÖ”, “National Council Half!]] All experts urge the government to put the state finances back in place after the crisis has ended, including all experts in the Budget Committee. And we're doing this with Deputy Minister of Finance Josef Pröll! He has presented a budget for a secure future for our families, for our children, for our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: You don't believe that yourself!]] - I think so. You don't know that. [[Call at BZÖ: Who wrote you this speech?]] – I write my speeches myself, because they have content, with yours I am not so sure. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say one thing: They also have the responsibility to tell the truth. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] What we have done in recent years in family benefits is still the top thing in Europe. I take just a few examples: the introduction of income-dependent child allowance or the extension of childcare. [[Abg. Kickl: Export of family benefits, a proposal of the...!]] And I'm asking: Where is Mrs Glavischnig? She comes in, makes a speech and marches back. Where is she? Where does she take responsibility? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to tell you the following – perhaps she speaks of Vienna, but there the Greens have the opportunity to change something –: In Styria, the kindergarten is free of charge from the third year of life. By the way, we have the kindergarten required from the 5th century onwards. Year introduced. [[Calls to the Greens.]] In Lower Austria from two and a half years free, in Upper Austria from two and a half years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Yes, and we will also achieve the Barcelona target. You don't always need to compare us with France, Austria is a good country where families can be at home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But continue in follow-up education [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] The budget for the families is over €6 billion, and with these 6 billion for our families, for our children throughout Europe, we are still at the forefront. Yes, every change is painful, yes, we have had to contribute to budget adjustment, but we remain at the level of 2008. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't!]] Yes, it is also true that sometimes errors are made through swift action, but we are repositioning, and we remain in the top position in Europe. I would also like to say one thing about noticing or forgetting: For example, the school books are completely free of charge, because the retention is removed, which constitutes an annual relief of €9.7 million for parents. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This has been since Bruno Kreisky!]] Or: The family allowance limit is increased to € 10 000. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Listening Please! Or: The shuttle fee is also raised. – Family policy is a cross-sectional policy and is therefore also part of economic policy. I can only assure you that family and children were, and will continue to be a central concern of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Kickl: Ha, ha! Homo!]] This is what I stand for, that is, the Austrian People's Party, and that is what our family minister and our Mrs. State Secretary stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34125	Mr Podgorschek is now speaking. Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34148	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen on the screen! I quote: Everything bothers me, because everything takes purchasing power away from the people, everything takes growth power from the businesses, and everything does not bring a renewal of the country that we urgently need. We are discussing twenty or thirty years. We now have a bad crisis behind us, and not even the crisis shakes us up. What is our country's responsibility? Why isn't there anything going on? - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that was not the opposition leader Heinz-Christian Strache, whom you so feared, that was not a politician of the liberals, no, that was – I assume, Minister – the president of the Federal Chamber of Commerce Christoph Leitl, whom you appreciated. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Head: You see us trembling!]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] I can also quote Karl Aiger of the WIFO. ==References====External links== October 2010 said: Consolidation must be primarily expenditure-side. What happened? – We have spent €70.1 billion, compared to €70.8 billion in the previous year, which is €641 million less. But if you subtract the interest expenditure we have, then it is basically just over €406 million less, because for interest expenditure, the government can't do anything for it, it was lucky that we have low interest rates. And if I compare this with the amount from financial market stabilisation, i.e. 500 million euros were spent less than originally planned for the bank package, then the whole savings effect is gone. In fact, we spent €94 million more, and that in the background of a ratio of 60 to 40, less expenditure on surplus revenue. But there can be no more talk about it at all. Multi-incomes prevail dramatically. Let us now look at this again. It's clear: Less expenditure of € 641 million is a ratio of 18 to 82. If I take the interest again, then we're only at 12 to 88. Finally, if I take the position of financial market stabilisation into account, then we have no savings at all. That is to say, this statement of a savings of 63.4 percent can only be derived if one does not rely on the actual state but on earlier plans which originally provided for higher expenditure, and these fictitious figures counter the so-called savings. In real life, it looks quite different. No, they did something completely different. One has € 327 million, which is 80 percent per balance, of the € 406 million total expenditure for families. And if I compare this with the increase in the social budget of €159 million, then I can only conclude that there has been a sharp redistribution from the families to other target groups. And in view of demographic development, I can only say: This is the wrong step to lead us into a abyss. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let me stay with Mr Aiger. He said in the same press hour: Overall, we appreciate – the WIFO – that it is possible to save 2 billion to 3 billion euros in the short term and in the long term – and that is almost the more important – 6 billion to 10 billion. If you claim all of this isn't true now, I think you've used the wrong experts. Where are the necessary steps in the right direction? I assume that the two uncles – Erwin and Michael – block every step they present. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Which one? What are these uncles?]] – Uncle Erwin will be known to you, including Uncle Michael from Vienna. [[Call at the SPÖ: That's what happened!]] That's not what happened. [[Call the SPÖ: The whole speech goes next door!]] The government parties, ladies and gentlemen, are in the hostagery of their country leaders and those groups that represent only their particular interests. Your policy is only mutual blockade, and that's the rule. But what about revenue? – €62.5 billion we have now budgeted on revenue. Of these, €1.2 billion are recovered, the repayment from the bank package, which is so-called participation capital, €0.9 billion. Net revenue rose by around €2.9 billion in 2011. What did Agiger say? – Agiger said: Austria has a high tax rate, and this should not continue to rise because employment and growth would be hampered. No, we're raising the mineral oil tax. Who's taking it? . Mainly the commuters, namely the small, poor salesmen who cannot use public transport, who are partly employed only half-days, have to carry this tax at the end of the day. Or the banking tax which is introduced: Who's out of it again? – The whole or almost the entire Raiffeisen sector. [[Abg. Grill: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] From my point of view, therefore, we are leaving with bagatell taxes and a comprehensive tax reform! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day I can still quote, because I have so many beautiful quotations, Federal Minister Pröll: “We want to achieve this, in particular, through a brake on expenditure, otherwise we would pave the way for tax increases, and I do not want to do that!” – This is how Pröll, according to “Krone” of 19. January 2010 said. And then the highlight of the summer talk. September 2009: “I am not willing to introduce new taxes. We already have a tax burden that has washed." Ladies and gentlemen! With this budget, the government and Federal Minister Pröll have fallen behind not only themselves but also the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34259	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34280	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! They are currently experiencing an interplay of the debate between economic policy and family policy. Both can be discussed, however, because it is directly related. [[Abg. Kickl: A resort!]] Ladies and gentlemen, family policy is, of course, very emotional in itself. I'm trying to get you some facts. In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, 2.3 million families live, of which about half live without children and 1.1 million live with children. Children mean not only joy, but also costs, and there is a study that says a family consisting of two persons and one child has 480 € per month of extra expenditure compared to a family without children. And in order to offset these extra expenditures, the Austrian families receive €9 billion. Of this, €6.5 billion comes from the family compensation fund, and 90 percent of the Austrian families benefit from it. You will receive about €3.35 billion in family allowances, €1.15 billion will be used for the amount of children's allowance and €959 million for child care. According to a study by WIFO, ladies and gentlemen, households from the lower-income third receive family benefits at five and a half times their deposits, the middle-income third receives benefits from FLAF at double levels and the top-third little more than they paid. This is a social levy, which can also be seen as a solidarity benefit. These are achievements, ladies and gentlemen, which can be financed further. A restructuring of the FLAF is therefore essential. The Minister has said in the Committee that there will be an evaluation and we will be discussing this report very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also not uninteresting in this context that a quarter of the approximately 8.2 million sick people are insured free of charge, of which three-quarters are children. 15 percent of the expenditure will be invested for co-insurers – that's right, that's necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, provides information on the means and level of benefit to families. The original proposals of Loipersdorf have been changed: Finally, €300 million was made available for families over the next few years. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria is in the European peak in financial family benefits and that we are paying the longest family aid in international comparison. The budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a necessary measure to secure existing services on the one hand, on the other. At the same time, however, it is also a task for me and for my group to develop alternatives, to discuss forward-looking proposals and to deal with upcoming problems and topics. We are still concerned with distribution justice: It is about the fair distribution of existing resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In concrete terms, I mean: It is about the restructuring of the FLAF, we are also concerned with the connection support for the further expansion of childcare facilities. With regard to Mrs Glavischnig's comments You tell me the following: The kindergartens on site do excellent work in the sense of the children – also a great thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also need to address other issues further: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot to do! Finally, family policy consists of a mix of benefits and benefits. It is about diversity, the responsibility to meet the challenge of the future of the next few years for the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34346	Next, Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34367	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Mrs Steibl, I sometimes fear that you will believe what you are saying. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, please?]] [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... Propaganda!]] I fear that because if you really believe this, you really must be afraid that your policy, your family policy will never change here. Mrs Steibl, you really believe that For the benefit of families, do you really believe that this budget is a budget with which, as you say, our present generation does not live at the expense of our children, one that supports this purpose? It's not like that, it's absolutely not like that! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steibl and Mr Mag. Donnerbauer.]] Mrs Binder-Maier, even though You bring numbers here, and even if you give a follow-up hour here, and even if you give lip recognition here, which would be necessary – for example, the extension of childcare – I will tell you one thing: I can't hear it anymore! I've been hearing from your Minister of Women since summer how important it is to increase childcare, how important it is to extend this federal grant. We have made a request. They have postponed it, but they have said in the Committee that it will, of course, be extended and will come. – And then what do we hear from the Minister of Economic Affairs in the Committee on Budgets? – That it will be evaluated! [[Abg. Steibl:... no idea of reality!]] Excuse me, it will be evaluated, there are working groups if you don't want to decide, there is if you want to delay, there is if you don't want to admit outside that you just don't want to invest – and that's really a scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But today you have the opportunity to put your words into action. I will make two requests, and you can agree with them. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek:... the Wiener SPÖ!]] So our present generation must not live at the expense of our children. What are the costs for our children, what do children need at all? – Children need love and care in the first place, we will not give it to them, we will give it to our own children and children and to our children's children, if there are already children in this house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] That is the task of the families, and where they cannot, the task of the social institutions that replace this, and fortunately, this is not very often necessary. But whatever they need is security of existence, is a heating in their apartment, is clothing, is food, is school lessons, is education, is vacation, leisure, friends, is all possible, all that – and that is not supported with your policy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In all rooms!]] [[Abg. Head: That's what the state has to organize?- Oh, my God!]] What you're doing is client policy. I'd like to support them, I'm just afraid you've lost your clients for a long time, because if you look at them, which... – that's obviously not my concern, but if you look at what institutions... – Let me say, then I listen briefly to you. [[Abg. Head: But let this be our concern!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You have no idea what this is about!]] If you look at which institutions you have screamed and protested out loud here, then it was the Catholic family association, then it was the Caritas, then it was various church organizations and then it was the Chamber of Workers – all the institutions that are effectively enforced with people from your parties. [[Abg. Steibl: The Church has its...!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This shows your “a willingness to discuss” and this shows your form of policy making: They did not respond at all to these accusations and to this cry! They tell us we're betting about something and have no proposals. [[Abg. Steibl: Where do you have any suggestions?]] I made proposals yesterday – I don't know if you heard them –: Why Have Don't you take back the child allowance? – 165 million € would have been saved here! Mrs Ablinger has also said that it would have been a proposal that she would have liked, a proposal that has come from the Chamber of Workers and others. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Steibl and Großruck]] That is a proposal, but why don't you want this proposal? Because the current situation Her clients support because she supports the good and minister, and not those... – I am not a good man, no! [[Abg. Steibl:... good man!]] We are all not good people, that is not our goal of action in politics. Our objective is to work responsibly here, and you don't! - That's it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] Finally, I would like to give you the opportunity to join our proposals, which we will follow in the form of two requests – further. Now we are dealing with two motions for resolutions. The first, Mrs Binder-Maier – which I do not see right now, but she will be present in the vote – refers to the extension of the federal grant. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request relates to the maintenance of the previous amount of the multi-child supplement, which Clubobfrau Glawischnig has already expressed in terms of content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] Resolution The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to maintain the previous amount of the multi-child supplement.’ You have the opportunity to make really social, fair, just family policy here, and not client policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34615	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34745	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34766	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to start by referring briefly to what the economic operators of the opposition parties have applied. I can begin with Mr Themessl, who was gone in the meantime. I think he has archived his speech again, because keep in the final effect They have been speaking the same speech for three years, namely that the competences in the field of business and work have changed. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, because nothing changes!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Unfortunately! It would be nice if he could keep them different!]] - Yes, that's right! We have another division of competence, and I would also ask you to evaluate the measures you always quote from 2008. We had an economic crisis and now a structural renewal. [[Abg. Bucher: We have a government crisis!]] – It would be very good to adjust that. And as the second, I would ask you to simply use your statements a little more quality and research. You have said here today that tourism would be deprived of an amount of €300 million, because the energy refund is no longer being paid back. - That's wrong. Mr President, I should like to thank In total, we have € 580 million of reimbursement, of which € 100 million will now be reimbursed less in the budget, and according to the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, this concerns tourism with a total of € 35 million. This is still unpleasant, but – coming back to your speech – it's a tenth of what you said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] And I hope you don't have to take a tenth of your arguments and other information anywhere to get to the real level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something about what Mr Bucher has said here – you have replicated on Mr Matznetter and said that he has represented a neoliberal economic policy, and that is if you make money for the banks: That's a strange view, but I would really ask you to do a research in the small circle in Carinthia, which bank needs money, whether you need to throw the money down on it, and whether the others pay back the participation capital accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: And you look at Lower Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, it is nice, Mr Bucher, that you and your team have understood the PISA test. [[The representatives of the BZÖ hold tables with different inscriptions.]] You can clearly read – but I don't know if you can argue in a meaningful way. That's still worthy of proof. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (two tables high) We have some good ideas there!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the gentlemen of the BZÖ have finished their reading, I would like to point out to the two...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34883	Mr. Federal Minister, a moment! . The same applies to the BZÖ Members, which applies to all other political groups: The signs are shown here. I can ask you to remove them again. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e34909	Mr Westenthaler and Mr Co, you should really see if you do not think anything new. That's what Haider did years ago, you always come with the same thing. That's kind of fad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to focus on what should actually be the focus here, namely the debate on the question – and this is really crucial –: How have we coped with the crisis with our framework conditions – this is true for the year 2009 – and how on the other hand are we working on the structural reform of the economy in 2010, 2011 and in the following years? If you, ladies and gentlemen, look at the year 2009, then we have managed the crisis very well. It is clear to me that this was not the Federal Government or Parliament alone, but our employees and the owners of the enterprises, not at all a question, but I believe that the correct measures taken by the Federal Government in the field of short-term work, in the field of thermal rehabilitation, in the field of eco-premie and tax reform have led us to cut off better than other countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] And because you always come and say that Germany has better growth data this year: You have more to pick up! Germany lost more than we did last year, so of course there is a larger recovery process. There you can simply look at the numbers – and numbers are actually inexplicable –: In 2009, we had less decline in economic growth, and now, in 2010, we have a higher increase in growth, higher export rates than other countries. I mention OECD or EU surveys for 2010: average growth in Europe is 1.8 percent, we have 2.0 percent and may even reach this; in 2011 the EU average is 1.7 percent, we have 2.2 percent. Of course, even better data would be desirable – we are working with the right measures to make it even better! This is the line in the 2011 budget: We can't always play crisis, we can't always keep our expenditure at the level of 2009, we have to bring the values back to the level of 2008, and that was a year of high economy, and we've also successfully cut off. Therefore: If you criticize here, just look at the changes! Mr Bucher, at the AWS next year, we will have a drop from €18.25 million to €17.25 million and we will need a little back on the liability framework, but in the final effect, the level, the financing capacity for businesses will not decrease. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] This will not be smaller, so competitiveness will be ensured. You may also have missed what we have in the field of research and development: We have been able to maintain the level. We have a budget of € 10 million, because that was part of the economic programme – that was mainly intended for the restructuring of the automotive sector. That's what happened, that's why we're on our way there. And you should also know that we do not expect a small and medium-sized company to build up its own research department! [[Abg. Bookbooker: But that's it!]] It is interesting to give incentives, and for this there is the innovation check that works – €2 500; many businesses have found the way into research – and, secondly, we now increase the research premium from 8 to 10 percent. These are the measures that businesses need, but not any old models that we really don't need anymore. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Internationalization, ladies and gentlemen, because you always ask: What is the concept of the future? – The concept of the future of the domestic economy is that we are making changes in the area of export, in the area of our structures and, above all, in the new markets. We are changing towards technology, towards innovation, but also towards new markets, such as the Middle East, the entire Black Sea area, but even stronger Asia. There we are successfully on the road, there we will continue the internationalization offensive with slightly reduced relations. Ladies and gentlemen, since I am still in charge of a second very important area, I would also like to say something about the family. However, I would simply like to say that we are even better placed in the area of what is going on in the economy, what is going on in the figures, and what the measures are about to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say something about family policy: What is the best family policy? – The best family policy is if the economy has jobs, if the one who brings money into the family, or those who do, can actually work when men and women can work and businesses are successful. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And here, ladies and gentlemen, I simply ask you to relativize: Mrs Glawischnig! We have been discussing recently, and we have discussed very objectively, as well as today. We gave €940 million in 2009 and 2010 – due to the economic crisis and because it was also necessary – more support in the family sector. We take out € 940 million or € 234 million in the budget for the next year. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, who? The question is, who are you taking away from? For some people 100 € are already a lot!]] 234 million €! Speaking of an attack is simply wrong. We have also made some rounds. I know that the people concerned are not happy – they see the negative measure; I also regret that we have to restrict it at all here – but just look at the FLAF! FLAF has expenditure in an order of approximately € 6.6 billion and revenue of € 5.7 billion, i.e. a deficit. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... once this FLAF!]] If you, Mrs Glavischnig, say in the context, the families are paining the argument of the tax burden, then not the argument is painful, painful is the tax burden! What we are doing is correcting the tax burden and the debt burden that lies on this whole problem, and when the debt is gone, we have a greater capacity to act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – That is why we are taking back in the area. We have extended the transitional period in the range of 26 to 24 years, and in this context I must also say that the extension of the transitional period concerns everyone who has rented an apartment. He can get the promotions up to 1. ==References====External links== Now I come to a point which, in my opinion, is essential: 900 000 out of 1.8 million persons entitled to family allowances are not subject to any restriction! So in this area, to talk about ruining the system would not correspond to reality. But what the question of the future is, if we are already discussing how it goes on, I would like to address three points. One has been mentioned several times by you, namely we would talk about the end of family policy or a turnaround. – Ladies and gentlemen, once you consider the family benefits of federal and state governments, the tax conditions, you will recognize up to 30 equal, partly different benefits and tax benefits. It is therefore necessary, in my opinion, to establish the safety of the system so as to ensure that each child benefits equally. Why should there be a different funding in Carinthia – partly on a debt basis – than in other federal states? That's better made for you. Second point: Childcare, follow-up financing, also the facts, Mrs Glawischnig. We have a 15a agreement, and it expires in 2010. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] Mrs. Musiol, if it means we're evaluating, that's what's in the agreement. The Federal Government has kept the agreement on point, on cent and euro, but some of the others have not yet submitted any bills at all. Four federal states have done this task, five federal states have not. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate, and then there will be a connection promotion. But I'll tell you, too. This is a topic of the countries, which is a matter of fact. The League is a multiplier to reach the Barcelona goals. Third, when we talk about family, the students are. I noticed that many students did not protest at all because obviously some of the family support stays with their parents, is not passed on everywhere. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's why I question the model!]] Now it may be – and I am referring to a resolution tabled here – that some students will have the “Hotel Mama” up to 50. Life-years claim, but reality looks such that many students live alone or with other colleagues and no longer live at home. Therefore, a consideration is given to: Should we not consider other systems and, for example, should the family support be paid directly to the students? There is even a motion for a resolution in the National Council. This, of course, is also a disadvantage if you say yes. Then there may no longer be support for several children or the benefit at the age limit, because the child no longer lives in the common household. It is therefore necessary to look at this from the fiscal circumstances and perhaps to make a change to it. Summary: From our point of view, there is a continuation of follow-up financing, and no attitude. There is a review of the reliability of the meeting, which is necessary in it. Thirdly, we need to consider why other countries have different systems and that family support is essentially discontinued from the age of 19 and still have enough students, but still have enough quality for the business sector as well. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: Consider both chapters! The family sector has some limitations, but also a high level, without the overall capacity of the system being affected. The economic sector is still excellent structurally, because this is the prerequisite for all other areas to be co-financed in other areas, whether labour market, pensions or health. A flourishing economy is called a flourishing overall system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35045	Mr Steindl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35066	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition does not want to realize that we have had to deal with the biggest financial and economic crisis since 1929, because it obviously does not fit into the argument. But it is true that we had a really difficult time to deal with. In particular, there has also been a reduction in the Austrian economy. We had a 20 percent reduction in the export economy, and our gross social product fell by about 3.6 percent. Austria has therefore come out of this crisis quite well, because the small and medium-sized enterprises, which hold at least 75 percent of the employees in Austria and are very closely connected with their employees, have kept their employees in large part. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I myself have been an independent entrepreneur in the automotive industry for more than 25 years, and I know how important our long-standing and faithful employees are to us. We know exactly the social environment of our employees, and each of us is considering whether to exempt an employee at the same time if he does not find the full utilization in his company. That this is not always very easy, I know only too well, because it also entails enormous costs. The government, the Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner and also the Minister of Finance Pröll, have taken appropriate measures which Minister Mitterlehner has essentially just listed in full. It was included in all the relevant packages, so that we were able to survive the economic depths quite well. We have thus come out of this crisis much better than some other European countries. International statistics show a very clear picture. We now have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union, we have top employment in Austria. We can thus prove that these measures were objectively safe and efficient. We will continue these offensive measures. The Minister has announced such programmes and projects that will strengthen growth in a sustainable way. It will be important that we support the Internationalisation Plan accordingly. For this, € 18 million a year is guaranteed. It is equally important that the thermal renovation – especially for the small and medium-sized economy – continues to bring about the corresponding impulse. The Energy Strategy is an important element, especially as regards energy security in Austria and the distribution function. Tourism is also a real pillar. Even in the crisis, appropriate support from AWS and corresponding ERP credit actions are safe. It is also very important to extend the thresholds decided recently in the government. This gives the regional economy, but also the local authorities the opportunity to provide impetus for regional employment. It will also be necessary for us to continue to have competitive tax quotas in Austria. We've reached the 44 percent mark, we can't raise it anymore. We should not think about an additional asset tax, as I say to our coalition partner. We all know that it costs more than it would eventually bring. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But it's fairer!]] [[Abg. Head: No!]] I can point out that the asset tax was abolished by Lacina/Dez in 1989. Instead of the asset tax, the KEST was introduced for dividends and interest income. At the time, the asset tax has brought an annual income of about €800 million, the Kest is bringing about €5 billion today. I think that was a very correct decision, we have taken the right measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: It is important to reduce the tax rate over and over again and to take the appropriate measures for the environment in Austria. Tax reform in 2003/2004 has shown that if we reduce the corporate tax rate from 34 to 25 percent, which also brings added value to the state, we have a huge increase in employment in Austria since then. We have a lot more tax revenue from corporate tax. With the old corporate tax rate, we had revenues of about €1.7 billion and now, after the crisis, we have almost €4.5 billion with the reduced corporate tax rate. That, I think, is the right way. I thank the government for these measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35128	Mr Scheibner is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35149	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister, you can admit one thing: You are not so negative in public perception, not least because you try not to be pictured together with the government as far as possible, because you know very well: Whoever is advocating this government has five minus points! But, Minister of State, that alone is not enough. We need an active economic policy for the economy in the crisis. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Is still active!]] Very “active”! – Questions They are particularly small and medium-sized enterprises and not the large industry! Of course, the large industry has all the possibilities of acting internationally. It also has the full funds in the background that are necessary in order to process long-term markets, also to go through some wave valley or wave valley. But ask the many thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria how they are! When I hear from the theorists of the government parties: The crisis has survived, it's all wonderful!, then... – Unlike you, I am a practitioner because I also work internationally as an entrepreneur and also advises Austrian companies who are trying to take a foothold in the markets for the future which the Federal Minister has addressed here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] They are active in the banking sector, and of course it is great in the banking sector. That would also be what small companies want: that if they can keep the profits themselves, if they do any, and for losses they make, then the taxpayer with parcels, just like for the banks, stands. But that's not how it works, Mr. Colleague. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs must earn every euro themselves in order to be able to pay their bills in order to be able to pay their employees. And that would be the goal. We have a lot of one-person companies. What is being done to enable them to include employees, to provide an office, to also operate internationally? What support is there? – You smile, Minister of State! I know the Chamber of Commerce is doing fact finding missions, but that's too little. We must show these companies opportunities through an attractive tax system, through appropriate incentives also in reducing the profits to be taxed. You're now cutting down the AWS guarantees. At the time, it was a sensible measure to introduce these guarantees. But I ask you – precisely because the bank representatives are present; although I do not want to shave all the banks over a comb, you know that very well –: What have the entrepreneurs heard when you went to the banks at the height of the crisis with the AWS guarantees and wanted to have loans? – They were asked: What else do you have for security? An AWS guarantee – you have to imagine that! – a state AWS guarantee was not sufficient for many large banks to provide small and medium-sized enterprises with the necessary loans. This is the reality I don't hear from the theorists here of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is where the economy wishes to support itself, because it simply cannot be. Mr Federal Minister, as you rightly said, the markets for the future are not in Austria. They are not in Europe, and the much praised Eastern Europe is soon to be broken out, but the markets for the future are in Asia, in the Middle East. - They laugh all the time, Minister. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Shall I cry?]] I'm telling you, the businesses have gone laughing, they can't laugh. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Shall I cry?]] No, you should make meaningful economic policies that actually help businesses because they don't have the long breath. [[OBJECTIVES]] One often needs years to get hold of these markets, one has to pre-finance the costs accordingly. Mr Federal Minister, you know very well that all these markets and economic growth are passing Europe, not just Austria, but Europe. Therefore, a common economic policy of the European Union would be necessary, but nothing will happen in this respect at all. The Europeans still believe that the Old Economy is so good, they believe that only they are so skilled would have quality and the others were just the copyists. - It's been over for a long time. Europe is no longer needed, profits are made elsewhere, markets are elsewhere. The Chinese and the Asians benefit from the economic crisis and the lack of support for good business in Austria, they buy businesses and know-how and then produce the products cheaply in Asia, then deliver them to us again and compete with our own economy. On the other hand, you have to do something. This is what we demand, and this also calls for the economy to have an active economic policy in Austria and the European Union, but it is still relatively little to be seen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another example: tax policy, because I have heard announcements again that taxes are being increased. What you are discussing under the title of wealth taxes is, in fact, only a further burden on the productive medium-sized and the economy, the economy that carries our society. Not you, not politics, not Marx and Murks finance society, but well-run businesses, well-run and active companies that organize the money and guarantee employment. Here, with a meaningful economic and performance-oriented tax system, as proposed by the BZÖ, one would have to create a real incentive for investment, as well as an incentive for foreign companies to come to Austria. The Chamber of Commerce has made commercials and advertisements such as: no new taxes, we don't need to reduce debt. - Many who sit here come from this area. They decide the charges, but the Chamber of Commerce must pay these ads from the contributions of the companies. That's the wrong way. We demand an active policy for the economy, because the economy supports society and the social system.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35258	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35279	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Yes, the budget was to be created at a time when the economic crisis was a huge challenge. The correct response to the crisis shows that the purchasing power and the economy have been strengthened and that labour market packages have been tied up that have helped and helped us. It also shows that Austria is far more stable than other countries in Europe. For example, the cuts in expenditure are mentioned. Compared to other European countries with 5% reduction in expenditure, we have 1.7 percent reduction in expenditure in Austria. This shows that we reacted very well in the crisis. Mr. Themessl, you already have Mumm, you are here at the speaker's desk and claim that there is now the highest tax burden. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: He has mumm, that's right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: More than you have!]] [[Discouragement of the protests with the representatives of the FPÖ]] I can only reply to this with the words of the Minister: You need to do a little better research! But it probably stops somewhere, you can no longer research, because the blue group was also very likely once represented in a federal government. At that time – and these are figures of the Austrian National Bank, which are certainly not questionable – the tax and tax rate was 47.1 percent different from now where it is 43 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm coming to the family area now. The consolidation measures were estimated at around €1.5 billion, the budget largely consists of the FLAF, the current situation of which has already been reported by the Minister, and €9.4 million for youth policies. Yes, it is true, there were many protests at the time of the first draft, but, Mrs Musiol, it is not true that, as you say, nothing has changed because of that. The need for consolidation has improved by 307 million on the basis of the amount mentioned by me at the outset. This means that measures have been taken to bring about changes and improvements. Austria, with its services for the families, continues to be in the top European field, paying the highest family allowance for the longer term compared to other European countries. Nevertheless, we must ask ourselves the question: Why are birth rates going back? Are these financial benefits the right ones? Are these the right measures we are taking? I have tried to look at the budget not only as a budget, as an island in our political landscape, but also in conjunction with the family report that we have discussed briefly in committee and here in plenary. What has happened in the last ten years? The family allowance has been increased twice. The siblings have been introduced. The multi-child supplement has been introduced. The entitlement to family allowance for students has been extended, tag tolerance semester. The student free ride for apprentices has been extended, at the same time also extended to health and nursing students. We certainly agree: None of us – none of us – are happy that something needs to be shortened and limited. Nobody. I believe that this is a point in which there is a consensus in the room. Although Austria is one of the richest countries in Europe, we are also faced with poverty risk and social exclusion. Special family households with an adult, one or more children are threatened with poverty, but also with social exclusion. It is our task – and the budget is the basis for – to set up measures in the future, to review all financial expenditure and to check whether they are really sound. I am convinced that the budget has been created for the first time in such a way that it is a step in the right direction – and we have also made a decisive contribution to this – because for the first time those who own assets have been used. This is a step in the right direction so that we can come to real distribution justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35351	Mrs Kitzmüller is the next one to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35372	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators here and at home! Because you've started here again with your humor about the black-blue coalition: Without black and blue coalition, family policy would be and Austria would not be what it is today! [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And you're still picking out the good, the really well thought out grains today. You're still alive today! These are the only things that families still have a little bit today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, two months this government is supposed to have needed to bring together this bad budget. If you had needed two weeks, you could have seen it, but there would have been too much effort to introduce this matt work here. In reality, ÖVP and SPÖ have devoted themselves for two days to a cozy sauna visit to Loipersdorf and no longer to the future of Austria. That is what the result is. Like a vowed sauna round, Faymann and Pröll and their colleagues in government then shook away the drops and easily ignored the requests we, the opposition, have made for change, thus showing them what the families are worth, what Austria is and how honest they mean with us. ÖVP and SPÖ support their devices, their reform-absorbed administrative units in the federal and state states. You don't trust to get in there, you don't trust to save money there either. There, in these structures, the money's sifting. Nothing is done in this to you over all sacred systems. In these systems, nothing is affected and nothing is touched. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must, the voters of red as well as of black, of green, of blue and orange have to bleeding. The non-electors are bleeding too. It doesn't matter, does it? Mainly, there is no intervention in areas where there could be resistance. There is resistance in the administrative dinosaurs, so nothing is done there either. Of course, the people are being saved, because you have long been away from SPÖ and ÖVP over the resistance of our population, which leaves you cold, as you do not even react with an ear plug. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is most common to the families. The families have no support at all from these government parties. And that's where it shows up again: The only ones who work for the families are the liberals, for the government parties are the families in front of closed doors. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In this area, as has already been mentioned, a total savings of € 406 million has been made, of which 80.5%, which is € 327 million, are saved from the families. A great performance! Congratulations! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But we do not want to save on our future and those who guarantee our state and our people. An example: A classic family in the free sense with father, mother, two children, a student 25 years old, a second child 16 years old who is still in school, what does this family lose every year because of this savings budget? - 3 000 €. [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] Ladies and gentlemen, 3 000 € for a family is a huge amount! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because it was mentioned earlier that the students would not receive the family allowance: I ask you: What do the students live on? – Of course from the parents! Students do not get the family allowance directly on their hands, but they receive pocket money from their parents or the rent for their room. But that's not all: Fees are valorized, but only where it is about taking. Where is it about giving, the family benefits, what is it? There the government is absolutely uninterested in valorizations. You're afraid of these valorizations like the devil in front of the consecration water. In this context, I would like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] But it goes further, ladies and gentlemen, on the family allowance: What about the family allowance paid to children who do not live in Austria? Why not adjust family benefits to the level of the home country? That would be fair and fair. For example, in Poland there is the family allowance up to 24 years of age, amounting to 24 €. This means that a pole with its children and here with us family allowance has a profit of 106,90 €. And such examples could continue for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: He pays taxes here!]] [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Matznetter) So what? So what?- Oh, my God!]] I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen: Let us reorganize our families, and let us move in with social justice! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Close the gates before this abuse! That is why I have a further request to make: Motion for a resolution by Mr Kitzmüller, Members of Parliament, on the adaptation of family aid for EU/EEA citizens The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to forward to the National Council a government template which provides that the family allowance for children living in the EU/EEA and their parents working in Austria is adjusted to the level of actual living costs in the country concerned. And to do so, ladies and gentlemen at home and here at the gallery, I invite you to participate at www.unzensuriert.at in our survey and to express your opinion as to whether there would be a fair taxation and a fair performance for us Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, deserves our rejection, for it is about the good of our families and not about the good of others, and we are the only ones who support the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35525	The two motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported, and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35638	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35659	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! If Mrs Kitzmüller criticises that this Federal Government would have had two months to present a proper budget, whatever it may be, then I must say that her party would have had two months to consider counter-proposals, but you have not done so by the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: She just made it!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Instead, you come here and practice in populist perhaps very well-arrived rhetoric, because what I hear from you, from your party the last two, three days, is pure populism, which I can no longer bear. I'll tell you why. They make themselves here and say: The voters, the voters must bleed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much do two sausages cost?]] Or another sage I heard: The government parties would sit at the Christmas table and cut at the Christmasgans. – I don’t know who would design and record such a sage. [[Abg. Scheibner: And what about your Zuckerl action?]] Two months are long enough for one to practice in rhetorical seminars, but as a politician one should actually have the responsibility and the ability to deal with things seriously, and your party definitely does not! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: Then do it! Take responsibility!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If it goes after you, the concept looks like this: A bit of populism, a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of alien, and we're already – in your opinion – a few percent in the front. But is that the claim why you are here in the House of National Councillors? Do you go home in the evening and, if you already let the families live so high, you can still look into your children, perhaps also grandchildren? Can you do that? – I couldn't do that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: You have a horizon from twelve to lunch!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Musiol noted that there were also suggestions from the Chamber of Workers, from the Catholic Family Association, from the Caritas criticisms. And, Mrs Kitzmüller, precisely because the families are not at our door, there were also some rounds. I don't have to repeat her, you all know her: The multi-child supplement remains. For students too, there were improvements in family allowances for those whose studies take longer; Attendance and civil services were included. [[Abg. Neubauer: Wurstsemmerl-Fuhrmann!]] The self-retaining of school books is not possible, it has already been mentioned. There is 100 € at the beginning of a school year, even that has already been said, but apparently you have to repeat it so that you too take note of it. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Swirled back or how?]] Last but not least, in 2009, the tax reform also resulted in a loss of €500 million for families. [[Abg. Neubauer: I think you're still in the sauna in Loipersdorf!]] If the students are already being addressed here, I would also like to mention once again, although we do not now discuss the scientific chapter, that it was a concern for the Minister of Finance of this government to provide €80 million more for the universities, that this government has known itself to do so, although we must save ourselves in teaching, in education, because we are investing in our children, in our young people. I like the proposal by Mr Mitterlehner to pay the family allowance directly to students. I think we should. It is not that young people live only by their parents, but many young people have to earn their own studies, and that is why it is important. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, the following conclusions: I believe that we should carry out a generation- and youth-enhancement test on the policy we are making here. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why do you cut back on the families? 80 percent of the cuts are for the families! Why the families? Is this the ÖVP family policy?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Then we could save ourselves the way we heard it before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This would be something that is not only relevant to the future, but above all to today, because young people also want to have support today and do not hear Sager like “the future of tomorrow”. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why is the family cut short?]] This should also be remembered by your Christmas prayers if you celebrate Christmas with your family, which we hope will be successful after the end of these plenary sessions.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35902	If the ladies and gentlemen have calmed down again, we will continue with the sitting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Keep going, it doesn't stop you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We are in Parliament, Madam President! We won't wait like the rabbits until you call someone again!]] Nevertheless, this House deserves a certain order. I will be happy to send you the e-mails again after these meetings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can keep your own e-mails, Madam President! We don't care about your emails! They don't care about people!]] The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e35960	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! My colleague Silvia Fuhrmann's speech is very, very strange, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It will be awarded the “Mother Cross”!]] If the youth spokesperson from the ÖVP comes out here and thinks that we need a youth impact test, the laws are to be examined in the sense of children and young people whether they really are in line with the future of children and young people, then the cynical fact is that this budget, which is now being decided by SPÖ and ÖVP, is not fulfilling this claim. Are youth groups really involved in this legislative process? - No! To history, for information only: What happened? – The Loipersdorfer budget was presented, and then there was the big call, the call of young people, the call of students, the call of family organisations, the call of parents, civil society. And then all of the government parties have been completely surprised: Oh, my God, that can't be! Why is there such a cry? And then you have only considered that one could perhaps include these family organisations, the youth organisations, the children's rights organisations in this discourse. It's only then! Then there were the round tables, and then you came up with them: Hoppala, maybe there should be a few more suspensions! Hoppala, maybe we're a little too strict what the youth budget is about to do, what the children's budget is about to do, what the family budget is going on. – Then stand out here and think that we need a children's and young people's tolerance test, is cynical, ladies and gentlemen. “Schmerzlich”, “pity”, “a step in the right direction” are words that have fallen here by the government parties in connection with budget consolidation. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] These are not political sizes, ladies and gentlemen, neither are decision-making processes in the sense of child and youth policy or family policy. What does it mean to stand out here and say: That's painful! Or: I am so sorry that students no longer receive family allowances when they are over 24 years old!? – This is a form of politics, which is a form of democracy that it is not worth being pronounced here in this House at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the students and the reduction of the reference period from 26 to 24 years. In the general hearing in the Budget Committee, all experts from all political groups said that young people and young adults were taxed for a fee, in relation to their own income. And that's what it's about in the final effect: They charge young people and young adults for a fee! This has been criticized, including the experts from SPÖ and ÖVP, especially with regard to the reduction of the entitlement period of the family allowance from 26 to 24 years, particularly with regard to the abolition of family allowances for young people seeking work, particularly with a view to the abolition of the 13th century. Family aid for young people. Your experts, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have also criticised the fact that a savings course is being taken on the back of young people and young adults, for which this young generation has nothing at all. It can't do anything for the economic crisis, it can't do anything for the consolidation course. That is the wrong idea, Minister Mitterlehner, to say: We save young people so they can have a good future! - That's the wrong way. The students are most burdened, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why, in the course of the debate on proposals from the Greens, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a sign of active youth policy, active education policy, active university and student policy, and an economic system and an education system that really deserved the name.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36030	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36104	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36125	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! “Mother-image has to be dismantled. Companies that rely on work and family compatibility are companies of the future. The compatibility of work and family is the great challenge of our time. Family and employment must not exclude each other, but must complement themselves in such a way that satisfactory living will be possible for all’.– This is said by Anna Maria Hochhauser, Secretary General of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Hear: It's all right!]] This is an offensive, as they have read from all the studies the families like the young women who need young men, because that is exactly what we – all those who want to read – can and can still remember it – have read from all the studies, namely that families, women, parents want the compatibility of work and family; everything else is advanced. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: More than 60 percent want to stay at home!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what we are talking about now. It is about the measures put in place by Parliament and the Federal Government, for example, the income-dependent allowance for children. Two thirds of men want to take advantage of this type of leave and child benefit. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it often fails in consciousness. There it is important – very important! – that companies, that the ÖGB, make awareness-raising measures for the social partners to come to a European level. At least 30 percent of parents, the fathers should use this option. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: More than 60 percent of women want to stay at home the first time, but they have to be able to afford it too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what particularly pleased me this year was that, for the first time, the income shears between the sexes have been combined for the first time, so that the wage differences, the income differences have become smaller. It would also be desirable if, next year – and I am also counting on you, Minister of Economic Affairs – the equal treatment law were to be amended in order to ensure that income transparency is given in order to get closer to what income justice means. What I wish for women in our country is not only that they can go to work and that the children are well cared for, in beautiful, adequate, high-quality educational institutions, but also that they deserve adequate enough, Mrs. Windbüchler-Souschill. That's my wish: you can handle income as well. Then you don't need to talk constantly about promotions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What do you want to tell us?]] Next important point: Several things have already been said here about the “competence-wess”, which Austria often carries out. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: In the government it is more a “non-competence unbeing”!]] Child care lies, for example, in the competence of the countries. I would have been pleading for this for a long time – and we already have legislative proposals for a framework law in the drawer – that at last minimum standards for the whole of Austria are created. [[Abg. Bucher: Get out of the drawer! Give the proposal freedom! Get out of there!]] We in Tyrol, for example, have the possibility that children between the fourth and the sixth years of life can go free of charge to the kindergarten or to a child training facility. In Vienna, for example, can go to a children's education centre all day long. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why do you have this in the drawer and not with it?]] But it's quite different. It is not rare in rural areas that July/August is a blocking period for kindergartens. It is not rare for the children to be in front of closed doors at noon – in school and also in kindergarten – and, and, and, and. [[Abg. Bucher: Unfortunately, this is the case in SPÖ communities!]] It's a lot to do, but you've got us on your side. We will not give up and the next step will be taken in January to ensure that income transparency is lived.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36276	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36297	Mr President. High house! The ÖVP is really a disappointment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For many people in this country, the ÖVP is a real disappointment. Or do you seriously believe that you can lie to people and get through with it? [[Call the ÖVP: Stop! Well, please!]] Let us look at what the Minister of Finance, called the Minister of Finance, said a year ago. Josef Pröll said that there would be no new taxes with him. What's the matter? – New taxes! He has said that we will reform the budget 60 : 40 – 60 percent in administration and save all these areas and make 40 percent new taxes. What's the matter? – 100 percent new taxes or measures that act like taxes. Josef Pröll also said: Greece's aid is alternatively non-existent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Today we know that there would have been an alternative to Greece's aid, which would not have cost us 600 million euros – so much so far. If we had saved these €600 million, we could have saved all the horrors in this budget. Who is surprised, therefore, that people are disappointed by the ÖVP when they are permanently lying. That's why I'm saying: Stop lying to the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36335	Mr President, you know exactly what language we should avoid. [[Abg. Rädler: Well, he's not!]] – The word ‘lying’ is, in any case, included. They are also heard with a different wording.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36374	Mr President, I understand, of course, the dignity of this House, only: If someone says something a year before and then a year later does exactly the opposite of that, what should I say about it? Is that the truth, or is it a lie? That's left to you how you evaluate it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I was recently asked by a journalist why the opposition is so upset. We could lean back and rejoice at this terrible performance of the government. We could be pleased that the survey values of the opposition are high, but the government is in a depth of the survey. But the world is not that simple. [[Abg. Wenninger: The BZÖ... sensational!]] One day we'll be in the government too. One day the opposition will also reign, and until then, if you continue to do so, it will not take so long. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's why we don't care if you leave us a shredded pile. We don't care if you don't finally address all the major construction sites you've been carrying for decades. - It doesn't matter to us. We also do not care if you do not even reform the pension system. We all know that the pension system will collapse in a few years. We know that. Everyone in here knows that, but no one does anything about it. The same is true of the health system: Finally, the health system needs to be transformed from a disease management system to an actual health care system. You don't do all these things. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or also the countries: The national competences have been making problems for decades, and if we do not finally cut them, we will not bring together a positive future in this country. [[Abg. Hörl: Centralism!]] You must therefore finally trust yourself over the big pieces of the administrative reform. If I hear the excuses that you don't have a two-thirds majority, I can tell you: When it comes to the two-thirds majority – we give it to you! We from BZÖ give you the opportunity to address with a two-thirds majority all those construction sites that need a two-thirds majority in this country, including the agricultural sites. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: But that must happen until 2013, otherwise it's too late!]] If you, Minister of Finance, finally want to protect your uncle Erwin Pröll's horns – we'll give you the two-thirds majority! We will give you the hand because we know that this country needs reforms, and if we do not implement them now, it will be too late. All the experts say that we still have a time window of up to ten years, then the pension system, the health system and all the other issues, will also fall to the head of the education system, and then this country becomes inregible. No one can be interested in this – not the opposition, and the government cannot. So, dear government, dear government fractions, we give you the hand for real, real reforms. The only thing we need from you is the will for reform, the courage to finally address the reforms that we have been waiting for decades. We expect this courage from you. Everything else we deliver to you: the ideas and the two-thirds majority if you want. So, please, take it. She's this one-time opportunity because she's not coming back! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: 2013 is over!]] We have no elections for three years now. In these three years we can move a lot for Austria. That's why I can only beg you: Please, take the opportunity! Make the reforms that the Austrians have been waiting for decades, and together we are taking this step for a better Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36478	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36499	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Scheibner has previously said that we in the ÖVP are just loud theorists. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Interpreted!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He doesn't make such compliments!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Sensefully listen!]] – You said that very well! I heard that, I was sitting up there. So I can tell you that only the issues dealt with under this item have been successful entrepreneurs such as Mr Hörl, Mr Obernosterer, Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, or Mr Steindl, who has already spoken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We know from practice how the company is doing. I myself come from the tax consultation, and I know very well from the practice of how the company is doing. I would like to tell you that our colleagues here create several hundred jobs. I would just like to know, Mr Scheibner, how many jobs You create or Mr. Lugar, who always speaks so well – probably not one! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to Family Policy: Mrs Musiol said today that we are serving our clients with the child allowance. – Mrs Musiol, I do not know, do you want to turn away from the tax-paying people in that country? Do you just want to be there more for those people who don't pay wage and income tax? For these people, we do a lot – enough – and I do not know where the money should come from if we constantly hack on the tax-paying people in this country. They say we don't need the child allowance, we can abolish it. – Especially for people who pay taxes, however, he is good because taxes are minimized for families with children, and that is why we will maintain him. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] It has already fallen a few times – including you, Mrs. Musiol – that people in single-parent families or single-earner families have very little money at their disposal. I would just like to tell you that, for example, since the 2003/2004 tax reform, a single parent or a single-earner family with, for example, three children – because you always point out that these families are at risk of poverty – solely because of the negative tax – when someone is not paying a wage and income tax and is a single earner or single parent – around €1,000, namely €999, from the state to negative taxes – namely taxes that have not been paid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So if this is nothing, Mrs. Musiol, I have to say that you live on the moon, because for this family with three children, when the children are between zero and 19 years old, additional €4 761.60 per year alone in family allowance. If this is “nothing”, then I must tell you, we are deceiving all taxpayers who pay in the pot so that something can be distributed again – because it comes to it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I've heard a few times today, we need a tax reform, we have to relieve people. I would like to remind you again: In 2009 we launched a tax reform with a volume of €3.6 billion. The family package alone has made up € 510 million, and a further € 2.3 billion of the tariff reform, through which we have just reduced low and medium incomes, people who earn €11 000 a year net. – There is not what I mentioned earlier on in the transfer services. 2.7 billion people in Austria do not pay taxes at all due to this tax reform. [[Call BZÖ: Millions, not billions!]] [[Abg. Grosz: “2.7 billion people in Austria don’t pay taxes!” – Calculation is hard already!]] I want to know why you're always making yourself here and think we're not doing anything for families that deserve less. We have abolished or reduced unemployment insurance contributions for minors. So people stay in the bag more. We are the ones who do something for families. We are the ones who are constantly developing family policy. We're the only family party because we're always thinking about it. Mrs Musiol, if you would say that Mr President Khol said that family policy failed, I am already wondering... We are in the process of developing family policy. We have further developed the childcare allowance that we decided in 2002. [[Abg. Scheibner: You decided?! – We have decided!]] There are now five variants and even a package variant of 1 000 €, and even women who have not previously earned anything can now receive this 1 000 € for 12 months – plus two months of partners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say one more thing: Family policy is much more important! For example, with 2005 we introduced an account of the child-education periods for women – for the first four years of life of the children. That's 1 550 € in 2010! Some women don't deserve this, so please don't mention that we don't make a good family policy. We are making an excellent family policy, and this is due to the ÖVP and its coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36690	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36711	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs Tamandel, you are perfectly right, and we also know: You of the ÖVP have some successful entrepreneurs in your ranks. This is probably the very reason why no one of these speakers is coming here to defend this budget – because the successful entrepreneurs will not create this space. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This budget chapter, which is about the place of Minister Mitterlehner, cannot speak in a beautiful way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] These are the chapters of the horrors, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the chapters on which you are measured, and there you have strongly cut!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36747	Ladies and gentlemen. There is enough time for all political groups to speak. I ask for a little attention for the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36769	Mr President, Mr Wöginger must always talk in between because he does not have so much to say at home in his district of Schärding. That's why he always drives to Vienna, and he always has to respond with calls of speech. Let's see what really happens in the family resort, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, expenditure in this 2011 budget is expected to fall by € 641 million compared to those in 2010. Of these, only € 235 million are interest savings due to the currently low interest rates. This will not even make you think that you deserve it on your flags, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. So there are only € 406 million of pure expenditure reduction. More than 80 percent of these, namely €327 million, affect family and youth savings – savings in the backbone of our society, namely the family, savings in the future of our society, namely in the case of youth, ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, however, the social budget increases by € 159 million – dog torfers. [[Abg. Lueger: These are measures...!]] That is to say, there is a shift from the families to other target groups. This expenditure reduction programme is therefore mainly due to a savings programme for families and young people, with all the problems arising from it: with the demographic impact, with the impact on domestic consumption and on economic growth. As you can, Mr Federal Minister, allow it to be saved as a minister of economics, even though you know that families put every single additional cent in the consumption and thus stimulate economic growth, as you can allow it to be shortened right here, I am absolutely obscene! Where have you been at the budget negotiations in your department, Mr. Federal Minister? Where have you been, as the cuts and burdens affecting the families, when, for example, the reduction in the duration of the family allowance has been decided, in the multichild allowance, at the 13th century. Family allowance, care allowance, and, and what? Where have you been, Minister of State? But fortunately, you have now obtained an “experienced” family secretary from East Tyrol. She's been in charge of the Social Office of Lienz for a few months. With regard to the burden on families, you will be able to use this social service experience of the Secretary of State, I can tell you that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Obviously, the whole Ministry of Family and Economy is located in Agony. A sign of this is also – and, Mr President, this also concerns the National Council – that the requests from the Budget Committee meetings have not yet been received. But don't worry, we've looked at the budget ourselves, we're not that dependent on your detailed answers because the rough outlines you're presenting here are bad enough anyway. But it would be a topic for a President: that there are still no answers to the question at the plenary session, ladies and gentlemen. – So much to the family area. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, why? Four days is time!]] Let's look at the economic resort now! This is traditionally not much more than a budget provisioning organisation for the Chamber of Commerce and for a few tourist organisations in Austria. There can't happen much, you should think; but no, far missing! Mr Federal Minister, you have also moved the shorter one, because there are numerous increases again, for example: Mineral Oil Tax, Tobacco Tax, AGES Fees, Ticket Tax, NoVA, Stock CEST, Foundation Tax and, and. Did I forget something? – Yes, I forgot something! According to the cuts in Austria's advertising, the hotel and tourism bank, the energy refund, and so on. More than 100 million of the burden on tourism alone, says ÖVP Spartenobmann Schanner from the Chamber of Commerce. But you've raised the shuttle fee. That's "super"! Apart from the fact that weitem is not enough to compensate for the additional burden by increasing the mineral oil tax, ladies and gentlemen, I think that you, the Federal Minister, who comes from Upper Austria's Pendler district, namely from the Rohrbach district, know very well that most of the counterparts do not even deserve enough to get the benefit of the Pendler Pauschale at all. There's nothing to do with the whole increase. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I know, Minister of State, that the subject of commuting is a wonderful point for you anyway, because the Rohrbacher Pendlers will be You have to explain what has become of the grandly announced veto against the removal plans of Mrs Verkehrsminister for Linz's Westring. [[Call to the ÖVP:Reading time, Mr President!]] I come to the end; I know my speaking time is over, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Mitterlehner, your place of business looks like a Christian tree on 6 June. January: Cleared and drenched – and not even the cheap Lametta has been left to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36844	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36865	Mr President. Minister! Let me say a few sentences on the creative economy! Let us talk about how this area is going! Let us think about what policy can do for this sector! A few days ago, the fourth creative economic report of the ARGE creatively economic austria, a branch of the Chamber of Commerce, was presented. Overall, this report shows a very good picture, and it reads that the creative economy is better placed than the economy as a whole. - Nice to hear. A strong creative economy will continue to secure the economic location of Austria in the future – and that is also in the sense of social democracy. Only a little bit unprofessional is being done here and there is a summary in this report. Unfortunately, the same report from the Chamber of Commerce does not exclude any major problems, the real problems. When I speak of shortcomings, I am directed by the Chamber of Commerce, I should finally throw my clichés overboard – clichés such as the fact that three-quarters of all companies are run male, or clichés such as the realization that the prevention or termination of unemployment is generally 14 percent, but for female entrepreneurs it is relatively more common to start up business.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36901	I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36930	I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take the seats. I welcome those ladies and gentlemen – especially the young people – in the gallery who are used to comply with a house order. [[General condolences.]] Your remaining speaking time is 2 minutes. – Please continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e36963	Thank you, Mr President. – In a democracy, freedom of expression is absolutely in order, and I understand, of course, that youth is worried about how politics continues here. [[Congratulations on Members of the SPÖ and on the Greens.]] [[Call the BZÖ:Na hello!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Which party are you in? Are you not from the Socialist Group? Are you voting against the budget today? That's incredible! That's what we're looking at today's budget vote!]] But now I come back to the creative economy and I want to say that the allegations of the Chamber of Commerce that a step is taking place in the independence of pure joy and voluntaryity, of course not... [[Further continuous calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I am referring to the fact that the Chamber of Commerce claims that the step in independence is done out of pure joy and voluntaryity. This is, of course, a blow to the face of many precarious one-person companies, Mr Minister. [[Abg. Rädler: Stop it!]] And in view of these facts, it is hardly any longer possible to ask the Minister whether the "Gender Brillile" should also be set up and whether the EVOLVE programme for the promotion of the creative economy should be discussed on the basis of increased support for women. It has been time for a long time, because this is also about distribution justice, Mr Minister, and one can think about going into the venture in the creative field and looking over the edge of the plate: What does the creative economy need in living space? What is the environment in which this sector is developing? All of this, however, is not a classic economic promotion. But creative economy is anything but a classical form of economy. [[Abg. Rädler: Stop it!]] A longer-term development perspective requires longer-term support security. That is why I am particularly pleased that the EVOLVE funding initiative will be given to the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry almost weekly more budget. If the Ministry is still talking about estimated €18 million until 2013, the Federal Minister will be generous via press release with €25 million – and I am very pleased about this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37071	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37092	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have just experienced that young people who have screamed civil society out loud. And for the ladies and gentlemen on the stands and on the screens: What kind of airstrips did you come up with? It says: “Not with us!” [[Abg. Hörl: Aha, it was organized!]] Mr President, this has been thrown down, and you could have taken it if you were interested in how young people are doing. [[Abg. Hörl: Have you organized this?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What's up there? – You can read it! It says: “This budget is against the future and a fierce attack on the weakest of our society. With your voice, you authorize cuts of: Children, youth and family: 1 340 million, education: 518 million, care: 578 million, EZA: 83 million." That ends with the closing phrase: “Social injustice cannot be dragged off!” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have experienced it in recent weeks: Many people from civil society, from the social, Catholic organizations have stood up and warned. Many organisations from the student associations and also from the economy have warned that research is also being deleted. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the debt must be reduced! Only: The question is: How is that done? In the end, it is an intelligent policy on future-proof expenditure and revenue. And finally, it's about justice – and that's exactly what you've been shown now! Wake up! Listen to me. Get them all around! But what you've done, risking a breach of constitution, on the table, is exactly the opposite. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, should be less excited. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, listen to the voices of young people! Its interest is that there is investment in education, ranging from kindergarten to universities, investment in research and intelligent investment in climate protection and the environment. And, of course, they also call for a fair tax policy – and one that is consistent and ecologically oriented. But what are you doing in the budget, now especially in the economic resort? – On the one hand, research expenditure is reduced, and that at a time when there is an urgent need for investment in this area, and under the cover of ecologisation, you increase the mineral oil tax and believe that you can also sell it well. – No, that’s not how it is! On the very central questions, on the orientations by 2014, which are very basic to the economy, is there no call?- Oh, my God! Look You're looking at the numbers! Look You're on: How will the education sector develop from 2011 to 2014? There is a downward trend in total expenditure, ranging from 10.8 to 10.6 percent. A clear reduction! The same is true in the field of research, where there is a reduction of 5.9 to 5.7 percent of total expenditure. And you don't ask yourself: How should this be a good soil, a good, stable foundation for the economy?- Oh, my God! Of course, this will mean trouble! We expect you, Minister, to have a forward-looking approach. And the first must be a fair tax system, an ecological and socially balanced system. For this, we Greens have a concept, a thoughtful, modern concept that we would like to provide you with and implement with you. With us you also have the corresponding majority, value SPÖ and valued ÖVP. The question is: Do you want to move forward? Of course it is also about justice! Of course, there is a tax on assets from €500 000 and a reduction in the privileges of the foundation! Of course, it will be necessary if you want to go in a just direction! Investment in areas that have considerable growth and can face key challenges, namely in the field of energy research, needs to be made. A stepchild in Austria: Just 0.03 percent are spent on this! This is a way – in an area where many green jobs could be created and secured – which is not forward-looking, and therefore I am now bringing in a resolution on this subject. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to increase the investment for energy research in 2011 to € 120 million per year.” That would be the right way! If we were to move forward on one of the important issues of the future, jobs would be secure, energy costs could be saved, and climate would be protected! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now about shaping and securing the future, but what has been discussed today and yesterday is a imaginative budget policy – a imaginative budget policy with no far-sighted flaws! What we want and what we offer you are innovative, courageous and forward-looking proposals. And I assure you: We won't rest, we won't let go until your big-coalition crutch breaks up. So we will end this year and so we will also start in the new year 2011!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37195	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37222	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! [[Call the BZÖ:Free speech! Free speech!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, I will speak freely, of course! Mr Scheibner – he is not in the house again – and Mr Haider, I say to you: [[Abg. Scheibner: Here! Look, please!]] Here stands a successful Tyrolean entrepreneur! I am responsible for over a hundred employees with my team, and I am seriously dealing with the problems of this country! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I say to you, Mrs Lichtenecker: If you order demonstrators here, I do not think this is a very serious job in Parliament and here in this budget. Mr Scheibner, my companies are in Tyrol and not abroad; I just wanted to tell you that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a responsible entrepreneur, I know of course that at the end of such a crisis, against which we have used over 6 billion in the form of economic packages, of which we have by the way put one and a half billion into the Carinthian Bank – this is the half budget of the federal state of Tyrol, which we have invested in Carinthia – that at the end of such a crisis must be saved. [[Abg. Grosz: Don't read, talk freely!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Talk freely, don't read!]] And this budget is natural.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37304	Ladies and gentlemen, you know, my colleague, for a moment. [[The speaker continues his speech despite the microphone turned off.]] [[The speaker goes on to speak in an unobtrusive manner.]] Mr President, I should like to take a moment. [[Ironic cheerfulness and detonative accompaniment with BZÖ.]] I just wanted to point out that the lively discourse... [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner speaks, turns backwards, with Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Scheibner, you know, as a long-term parliamentarian, that the discourse in Parliament also lives on interlocutory calls, but if they only serve to ensure that they do not make a contribution to the content, but that they only interfere, then I do not win this! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't read it!]] [[Abg. Grosz: He shouldn't read!]] This is not a contribution to political education in the face of the young people who are here at home.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37390	Let us look at the energy refund, certainly a painful point for the economy: Hotels, cable cars will have to pay a lot, even baths will meet, but the Federal Minister and we have seen that we do not burden the small businesses, but the butchers, the bakers, the Greißlers, the pensions and the innhouses. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Free speech!]] [[Call the BZÖ:Free speech!]] And of the €100 million that can be saved here, the Austrian Federal Railways, Social Insurance and Public Buildings pay half. On the other hand, in this budget we have over €100 million for thermal renovation, for the economy, for the regional economy. [[Abg. Grosz: This is not the Christmas Gospel!]] I think from the point of view that half of these savings have to pay the public hand and the Austrian federal railways, this is not even such a bad business. We have seen that the little ones don't pay anything, and now of course we also need to look at it, Minister, that the Bundesbahn pays it out of its revenues and not from the state's deficit coverage. Even in the support banks, the aws and the ÖHT, cuts, as I think, have been made. [[Abg. Petzner: Hello! Free speech!]] We are up-to-date in 2008, but as an entrepreneur it is always preferable to me, I get fewer promotions and do not have to endure higher burdens for them. The budget could be kept in Austria's advertising. I think well invested money: 126 million nights, €25 billion of turnover coming from this industry. [[Abg. Petzner: Lecture!]] We, the economy, make our contribution to this country, to the location Austria, because we know that we need to remain operational. I congratulate you, Federal Minister, on your part of this budget is excellent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37493	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37514	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We have recently been presented with an example of dishonest politics – dishonest politics by ordering a government fraction like SPÖ, probably with green alliance, an action against its own policy from above. And that's dishonest! That's dishonest! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Call the BZÖ: That's it!]] I ask you: What do people think at home in front of TV screens? – Mrs Rudas comes out and gives the colleague Hookel instructions on what she has to say. [[Abg. In the evening of October 7, 1989 several hundred ……]] It was really obvious. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I say: Shame for this action! She's dishonest, she's unfair, and she's not worthy of a government party! [[Complaints and bravors in the BZÖ as well as in the case of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the family package. You can turn it, turn it, sand it off, spring it off, round it off as you want: It is and remains no substantial change or improvement. It is and remains a load package for the service providers family. The families are asked shamelessly for the checkout. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – and I have to say that again and again – have really resigned as a family party. I do not understand, Mr Family Minister, that during the negotiations you did not protect yourself from the families that you said: Stop, not so much from my family budget! – This is the future of our children and young people. I do not understand that since you are in office, Mrs State Secretary, you have not expressed at all or have not expressed any further comments on this package. They're taking everything, as it is. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I wonder, What will be shortened next? If you look at the budget for childcare allowances, 4 percent is planned for less. Is this allowance now reduced with a new variant, although the long-term variant is the one that brings the most for the families and is also accepted by the families, or will we no longer be able to cover the administrative costs of child care? You, Mr Federal Minister, said in committee that in 2005, we had costs of € 5 million for the administration and now, in 2010, we have € 14.8 million only for the administration of the childcare allowance. That's incredible! That's money that's taken from the families. That is why our demand to abolish the pay-as-you-go, a simple administration, an independent family benefit for child care, remains important. And we will also make this request again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Minister, your argument, you have to save and therefore the services at FLAF are shortened, is too short. This is also an eye-catching because the deficit has been known for years. You know very well that you have to make other reforms than to reduce benefits. You could take a first step that you just take out family-wide benefits, which is at least €1.2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! With this raid on the families, the government parties, including all the protests they order, have lost their credibility, and they do not take it seriously with the appreciation of the families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I liked it best, yesterday Mr Cap said: Well, that's unfair. We need to do something next year for the families, for the students!, and so on. – I'm sure I hear it, only I lack faith. In order to make it a little easier for him, I will make a request to which he can already agree today and thus also prove that it is really serious for him to remove the burden on the families, under the title “SOS Family – Performance and Justice”, that those projects, such as the reduction of family support, reduce the 13. Family allowances, the reduction of the multiple-child allowance, the reduction of the single-earner discount rate, the reduction of the deterioration in the care allowance or the advance of the value assurance of family benefits. This is a choice from which Mr Cap can choose with his SPÖ. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I cordially invite you to support this today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37622	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haubner is just as negotiated as the motion for a resolution put forward by Mrs Lichtenecker. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37741	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37762	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! With all due respect for hard political confrontations, for the clashing of arguments and counter-arguments, but for what the opposition implies in these days, it is far from about the dignity of the house, as it is about whether the Austrian population will be even longer willing to accept democratic structures, given what is offered here in some places. If we work there with opinions and intermediate calls, which do not make any contribution to changing the budget in terms of content, then this does not take us further and harm the reputation of politics as a whole. I think that should be taken into account in this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ. - Abg. Petzner holds a poster with the title “Principalize ÖBB!”, Abg. Hagen a poster with the title “Reforming the Education System! ”]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, with the number you can perform at the Villacher Fasching or at “Gaudimax”, but not in the Hohe Haus! It's going here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression at all that, with all the understanding of oppositional criticism, it is not understood what the starting position we have. We have succeeded in preventing the most severe economic and financial crisis since the 1930s in Austria from becoming a social crisis, not a crisis with mass unemployment. And we have also succeeded in ensuring that public households do not run completely out of the row. I don't want to put any foreign feathers on the hat now, but we don't have to put our light under the casket either. Not for nothing are all rankings in Europe as regards social policy, labour market policy and financial policy factors, Austria as a model country and as a preferred student. We can be proud of this together, because many of these decisions have been taken together in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are several factors that have led to this achievement. The Austrian economy, rather small-structured in international comparison, did not immediately cancel its employees' first job shortage, and labour market investment, according to the Social Report, has resulted in more than 100 000 jobs being secured. We have stimulated the economy with the two economic programmes. We have invested massively in the new construction of kindergartens. I have never participated in so many groundworks and openings of kindergarten buildings as in the past two years, because there was simply a boom there, because on the one hand one has responded economically and on the other hand has provided the facilities to the young families. With deposit guarantee, bank packages and infrastructure measures, we have also ensured that the purchasing power of Austrians remains high, that domestic demand has remained stable and that the economy is less severe than in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen! We have used all these instruments very carefully and very carefully. As a result, Austria is now also able to deal with the budgetary consolidation process far more mildly and above all more socially compatible than other European countries. However, I would also like to address a very concrete measure in the 2011 budget, namely the removal of the credit contract fee. This is a measure that has never been mentioned by the opposition. With the removal of the credit contract fee, the federal government waives € 150 million per year. These are 150 million who help young people to finance their first own budget. It is 150 million who benefit Austrian entrepreneurs when they need commercial loans. This is €150 million, which is available for credit-financed purchases for the Austrian population. That is domestic demand again, economics and thus jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! A final pre-Christmas message to the ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, who have repeatedly criticized the era Kreisky in recent days. In January we'll be the 100. Birthday of Dr. Bruno Kreisky. He would certainly be proud of the fact that the ÖVP is a reliable, stable partner together with us economic policy and labour market policy institutions. In the 1970s and 1980s, they have also used the last two years of crisis to cope with the financial and economic crisis. The SPÖ will continue this path of social justice, security of prosperity and economic strength. I invite everyone to accompany us with constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37847	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e37878	Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The Minister of Finance has said in his budget speech that everyone has to make a contribution. He meant that all families have to make a contribution. [[Abg. May. Stadler: State Secretary for Dolce & Gabbana!]] It is mainly a saving program at the expense of the families. The savings in families amount to € 326 million, which is 80.5 percent – please, 80.5 percent! – the total expenditure reduction of € 406 million! And the SPÖ always speaks of social justice. Where is social justice at the 13. Family aid if it is only a lump sum of €100 for students between six and 15 years of age? [[Abg. Wenninger: Here!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where is the social justice in the multi-child supplement from the third child, when it is shortened from 36,40 € to just more than 20 €? – This reduction in the number of children is a false social policy signal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And where is social justice in the care money? – 80 percent of those in need of care are cared for by family members. [[Abg. Wenninger: Here!]] Especially in the first two stages of care, the proportion of caregivers is highest. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of State Secretary Mag. Remler) Are you only on the salary list?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 15 000 €!]] These benefits are mainly provided by daughters-in-law, by daughters-in-law, who, in most cases, also have their own children to care for and train. Where is social justice in the family allowance for students, who are only valid for more than 24 years and are then deleted? – Again, it concerns those parents who finance their children’s studies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The subject remained the reference of Austrian family aid by foreigners. Mr Federal Minister, for example, a family allowance of 130 € from Austria is transferred to Slovakia. Since family aid in Slovakia is only € 17.81 – would it not be useful to adjust the payment from Austria to at least the level of the country's home country? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My colleague, Mr Kitzmüller, has also tabled a motion for a resolution. Now on the subject of child care. Mr. Federal Minister, I found an interview in a daily newspaper. That's where you say – I quote –: “Not everyone likes it when mothers go to work. In any event, women should have the option.” Further: “In Austria, there are still many who believe that the best education takes place at home with the parents, with the mother.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, we are of course very pleased about this, because we are also of this opinion and this conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38012	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38044	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! – Mr Westenthaler, I think I am speaking now, otherwise you would have to come out. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I want her to say what she has done so far!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm coming anyway!]] Mr Haider, you said there are no entrepreneurs in the ÖVP who come out here and defend the budget. – I am an entrepreneur in and defend the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore defend the budget because, as an entrepreneur, I have employed many employees – and have been training apprentices for 30 years – and I know exactly what I can do only if I take something in advance. I am really glad that many speakers have already said and also pointed out before me today, what and how much the Austrian economy, namely the small and medium-sized enterprises, do for Austria and for us. We have heard that 95 percent of companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. We have heard that these entrepreneurs create and receive three-quarters of the jobs. That is truly worth mentioning, praiseworthy, and for that I say thank you. Mr. Haider! You said you would not have received the answers to your budget requests in time. - That's wrong. The Ministries have sent the answers to Parliament in good time. [[Call the FPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] As a result, they have also been addressed to the parliamentarians in a timely and timely manner. Maybe you read it too late? It may be. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But first of all, I would like to say: I am very proud of Austria – and you should be. We have done a lot for the Austrian families in recent years under the direction of our ministers and State Secretary. I'm just mentioning a few points here. The tax deductibility of childcare services is very important. 2 300 € per year we can be a parent for child care. We have the free kindergarten year. In my view, this is also very important for the social co-existence of children. We have the child's allowance, especially the income-dependent child's allowance. – So all the points that are very important for the families that bring us forward and that support the families. We can be really proud. Ladies and gentlemen, because the reduction in family support is always so criticised: Let us be glad that we have been able to pay the family allowance so long! But at the moment we have too little money in the family compensation fund. Why is that so? – Because 80 percent of the funds are spent by entrepreneurs in this fund. Not so much money right now. Once again, we must thank the entrepreneurs who allow us to benefit from this fund. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] When you look into other countries – we take Sweden! –: Sweden has always been and still is the country for us. Ladies and gentlemen! In Sweden, family aid is only available until the 16th century. Year of life paid. I therefore say: We of the ÖVP stand for savings with an eye-catching, smart and forward-looking investment. We stand for social balance, for performance and fairness and for forward-looking policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38129	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38150	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary, perhaps be You are still explaining yourself here today because of the many wishes expressed by the Members. This would probably not be so bad, not to give the impression that individual members of the government actually only – no, I don't want to say – exist in the form that you learn more about the listing and the poster than about what really happens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just cash and not talk!]] [[Abg. Grosz: And Dolce&Gabbana glasses!]] But you wouldn't be the only one. For example, the Minister for the Environment is withdrawing from any discourse – he is putting millions of tax money on advertising campaigns. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we will still be able to make an efficient use of resources. In fact – the previous speaker has already mentioned it – the question is, if already need to be saved, at least most but still need to be invested: How do you make that most reasonable? What's fair, what's innovative? These are the central principles, and there may be ideological differences in the assessment. But let's go through the story a second time. After all, we only have the expenditure page and the revenue page in the budget, and we say to you: The cuts you make are not that saving with an eye measure, as you have said. This is relatively heartless and brainless, how you are going about it, and because we have already mixed the economy and family policy in the chapter today and here – this is a bit unfortunate from the debate – we are once again making a general debate! Things are really related. Of course, it is a huge problem if we find on the expenditure side positions in the budget, where inefficiencies prevail where the government throws the money out of the window, often still privileges itself, and on the other hand, we note that in Austria the benefits for the families are already so high, so people should not get excited about them. Yes, it may already be that the cash benefits for the families in Austria are relatively high, that would also be changed, but it is not so with Weitem that you would do more about the so-called benefits. That's the problem. So all in all, it's going back, and that's now in an area where families – and I'm focusing on these right now – are relatively hard hit with those in education and students. What about a family in which two children are in education just between 22, 23 and 25 years of age? The boys do not always have that easy to complete the study without further delay in this period, which you now de facto state for the reference of the family allowance. The conditions at the universities are now as bad as they are, and by the way, they continue to deteriorate with the budget, because, contrary to your announcements, there is no additional money for the universities, but it is de facto frozen, what is really called inflation calculations et cetera, it is shortened there, although there are more and more students. But they're not moving forward. They do not progress to the extent that they should – but not because they did not want it better, but because they are prevented because they no longer enter the compulsory seminars at all. That's the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then you stand on the other side and say: So, now it's getting cut, and: How does that look at all?, and “Hotel Mama” and what you still have to listen to today. That's not how it is! I think it's all cynical. I am not at all used to this by you, Minister of State Mitterlehner. I appreciate you, you know that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But that's too far. The problem is: We have enough positions in the budget, for example in economic promotion, perhaps there or there double, triple, quadruple funding with the federal states. No one knows what certain large businesses often do at the same time when I look at the federal economic promotions, and there are hundreds of millions of them all together. Nothing happens or relatively little. But I'm still excited about how we're doing, that once you're really just saving as you say. But that's not what happens. No, it's happening to families like that! And what does that mean? – That's 2 500 to 3 000 € per child to train. That's how you meet the families! That can be 5 000 to 6 000 € a year, and that is not so little. What do you want? You with that? Who do you want to meet? This is to be the “social confidence ”? – Yes, you meet exactly those who would really need it, but perhaps that corresponds to your ideology and your client policy. On the other hand, let us look at the revenue side in order to look at it in the right place: On the revenue side, you do not want to do anything exactly where the top ten thousand – and I am not afraid to use this term: the top ten thousand – are going to be! So you catch the families and the young people and those who are in education, where schools and universities are starved, that's all right. On the other hand, there is not much that has happened where you would have the alternative of just saving – that is not really happening – and on the other hand, to increase revenue fairly, because this creates the margin in the budget in addition: save things and increase revenue fairly. It is always rightly pointed out that Austria is a relative high tax country. Yeah, that's right, but who pays the taxes in the country? – Those who consume and pay a lot of VAT, and those who work, whether they are independent or not – you don't have to make the difference on the spot – also many small entrepreneurs and traders, but also the workers who pay in this country and not primarily those who could most afford it. And if we are already in the tag tax justice: We are among the last three places in the OECD comparison with the capital taxes in Austria, i.e. in the case of the comparable capitalist countries in the half hemisphere, while in the case of labour taxation we are in the leading field. But apparently you don't understand that you have to reroute there. And if you temporarily need more revenue for the budget, which is sensible and correct, then you will have to look at it there too, but there is, contrary to the representations of the SPÖ, relatively little happens. One can say that a few things have happened, such as the disappearance of speculation periods – yes, that's even a very good thing – but as measured by the large and the whole, it's relatively little, indeed far too little. We have studies here alone on the tax justice and disharmony of distribution in Austria. [[showing the relevant documents]] But these are just the extracts from it and the summaries and recommendations on how we could create more tax justice in this country, including from the Economic Research Institute. But you don't want to know about it! And that's exactly the problem of the ÖVP: You have nothing to do with justice! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you're talking about performance justice, you'll have to talk about how it's possible for millions of heirs – millions of heirs; we're not talking about small house-keepers, even if you still have 50 advertising campaigns at the taxpayer's expense; nobody talks about the small house-keepers; we're not talking about those at the top – paying no inheritance tax. Heritage tax is paid everywhere, only not in Austria. For millions of heirs, there must be taxes again! That's a jobless income, and I'm not listening to that all of this has been taxed before. According to the principle, there should be no VAT at all, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because everyone has already paid income tax. And if Mrs. Fuhrmann goes to buy a sausage cream, she still has to pay VAT again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's normal and regular. You have no idea! You have completely ideologically burned yourself because you really want to cut down on the protective patterns of the super-rich and on the families, contrary to the reputation you like to hang around. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] It doesn't work out – justice and innovation look different! Follow our requirements and agree to our requests!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38258	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38280	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing the 2011 budget since Monday, 10 a.m., i.e. for 50 hours, in which consolidation is necessary due to the financial and economic crisis. I believe that all the political parties in the House agree on this. Of course, the views and opinions – yes, Mr. Collegue, you're always in line for me – are different as to how to consolidate a budget, and must. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] And if we were to ask all 183 Members here in the House where they would put the lever, we would probably have 183 different opinions. The fact is that extra distribution is of course much more pleasant than saving. What irritates me a little bit and disturbs me all over the discussion since Monday, which is that we forget far too quickly why this budget consolidation is necessary. I think it is not possible to show it often enough and to repeat it again and again if one has the possibility that there has been a cause for us to consolidate now, namely the financial and economic crisis. It was this Federal Government that took responsibility here in 2009 and with the economic packages and labour market packages really important and correct It has taken steps that have succeeded in combating unemployment, like in no other country in Europe, and unemployment is the biggest cause of poverty. But nobody – or almost nobody – on the side of the opposition stands out here and appreciates these measures. The Federal Government is also responsible for consolidating the budget. And here again, something is different from the other countries in Europe: In addition to the savings package, the Austrian Federal Government and the representatives of the Federal Government are ready to make additional investments, such as environmentally effective investments in thermal renovation, investment in necessary transport infrastructures, in research and development, and much more. But, ladies and gentlemen, as far as investment is concerned, we want to work out much more for the future. With environmentally effective construction investments, we want to strengthen and secure the economic location of Austria, our environment and thus also our domestic purchasing power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] While we are negotiating the budget here, we are already talking in parallel about how we can achieve long-term steering effects in terms of economic growth and employment, and thus for the benefit of Austria. We have successfully opposed the financial and economic crisis, and we will also decide on this necessary budget for rehabilitation, because we want to make more investments in our structures in our country from 2012 onwards. With this Federal Government, with these two government parties and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner, we will also succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38343	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38375	Mr President. Federal Minister! And above all, Mrs. Remler, Secretary of State! [[This one's just going to her place.]] Perhaps you too can go to the government bank. As a family secretary, you are actually responsible for the chapter we are discussing here today, and it is amazing that you have not yet spoken on this important subject. It is already clear, however, that the Dolce&Gabbana glasses you wear today look very different from the family policy. [[The speaker holds a laptop with a photo of Secretary of State Mag. Remler, on which she wears glasses, up to the height.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Go, please! That's last-class!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You, Mrs. State Secretary Remler, are not a family-state secretary, for the families and children of this country, but you are a State Secretary for Dolce & Gabbana – and nothing else! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a shame for the former family party ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen: The most expensive state secretary with a basic salary of €11 000 – an income that so many families could wish for. [[Abg. May. Worm: Is this a suit from the bar, Mr. Petzner?]] [[Further calls.]] A sentence also on the interference of students under the direction of the Green President Maurer and with the strong support of Mrs Rudas. I think it is strange that the SPÖ, together with the Green demonstrators, organized and placed in the gallery against their own budget and that there were still many foreign students, who represented our local students. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Foreign?! A whore!]] You have thus shown what you really want in the field of university policy, student policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: How do you know this was foreign?]] To the Minister of Finance and the Austrian People's Party. – I have said how often Mr Pröll has used the word “crisis” in recent months. I have stopped counting 1 000, ladies and gentlemen, and I say quite frankly to you: The people of this country have understood very well that we are going through an economic crisis. The people of this country also understand and accept that we must save that we need to tighten the belt tighter. But the people of this country do not understand why they are being asked to pay for a crisis that they have not caused. The people of this country do not understand why they are asked to cash out and the true responsible ones get away with it. And they are therefore rightly demanding that not in the wrong place, but in the right place, ladies and gentlemen. In our opinion, it is a matter of thinking, for example, of the burden on families with children – Mrs. State Secretary for Dolce & Gabbana, perhaps you say something about it – if you think of the loads on the commuters and those in need of care, if you think of the burden on pensioners, no federal law on the approval of the federal proposal for 2011, as it is called in the title, but then the title of this law must be different. [[Call the SPÖ: Completely levelless!]] For this reason, Mr Bucher and Mr Petzner also tabled the following amendment to the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is what you are presenting here today! It is not a federal proposal, it is a load package for the Austrians who have to do away with the errors of your policy. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: How was the Hypo Alpe-Adria?]] I refer in this context, for the reasons of this request, also to the directives of the Federal Chancellor's Office, where it is clearly stated that a federal law and the title of a federal law must also reflect the subject matter, the content of the law. And if you look at the content of the budget law, you will find that it is not a federal proposal, but an unacceptable load package for the Austrians. Let me remind you of this, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Please note, Mrs. State Secretary for Dolce & Gabbana!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38564	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Cap, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38588	Mr President. High house! I would like to point out here that both Mr Westenthaler's calls to the new Secretary of State and the speech that Mr Petzner has now given are unfair, hostile to women and are placed here in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38612	Mr Westenthaler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38647	First of all, Mr Klubobmann Cap – knowing She was just as good as I am – that was not a statement on the Rules of Procedure. They have not submitted a request. So you do not even know how to handle the Rules of Procedure. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I'd like to replicate, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. I think it is immense that families are being put out of the bag, which cannot even afford to heat again, and a family secretary sitting here, who does not find it worth the effort to speak here, but, as State Secretary, cashes 15 000 € per month. That's the scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38677	Mr President, I should like to thank I think it is strange to accuse Mr Cap of not talking about business treatment, and you are doing the same. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the introduction, Mr President.]] That's just the introduction? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38717	This is only the introduction, Mr President, because I urge the Secretary of State to speak here. For this is your profession, Mrs State Secretary, to express your views on the cuts in the family sector, which are scandalous, here too. On the other hand, we are protesting at the sharpest!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38745	Mr. Klubobmann's head, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38769	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are now experiencing not only in these three days, but, in fact, for a long time now, a really incompetent behaviour of Members, in particular the BZÖ, with unqualified calls of call, now also with a truly absolutely personal speech against the Secretary of State by Mrs Petzner. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, you should be really ashamed! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should be ashamed to take away the money from the families!]] You recognize this Parliament in a way, and you are the main responsibility for the fact that people outside this Parliament cannot respect it anymore. You are the ones responsible for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38812	Mr Kickl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38851	Mr President. As a liberal group, we are really the last ones who want to defend this social holocaust of families in some form. There's nothing to defend. That only stems from injustices. But I say this: One is the content debate we are having – even in all hardness and in all consequence – and the other is what the BZÖ is trying to do here in an incredibly embarrassing way, where someone who is himself wrapped in designer clamots is making and criticizing some glasses. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bussi, Bussi!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Please go!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This has nothing to do with a budget criticism at all. I'm just looking at the BZÖ Deputies' vehicle park there in front of the house and then I know: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Shot dog of the government!]] There's no middle class car, but there's only luxury limousines. Start with yourself once! This has nothing to do with a budget criticism.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38919	Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e38950	Mr President. Dear colleagues from the BZÖ, can you listen? That would be really helpful if you just listen once and don't talk! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ms. Oberlehrer!]] Mr President, it would, of course, have been helpful and perhaps good if the Secretary of State had been presented to Parliament in greater detail. The Rules of Procedure provide, on its own, that a detailed discussion will take place when a new member of the government is fishing. Unfortunately, that has not yet happened. Please also appreciate this as an invitation to perceive it in more detail! [[in the direction of Secretary of State Mag. Remler]] However: The criticism and the way she is presented here is very much aimed at the fact that you obviously take up this office as a woman. I find this so debilitating that you are not able to present your criticism objectively, but only to become aggressive when it comes to women. [[towards BZÖ]] Please work a little on your style! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39004	Thankfully, five words were not for business treatment, but for style. We should strive to make a clear improvement. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39052	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, everything has already been said as far as the occurrence is concerned. I also find it disqualifying to go out with the iPad and make these calls with the glasses before. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just like you do Parliament...!]] This is very unpleasant for everyone involved and especially for the audience. And secondly, it is also unpleasant if you believe you can indoctrinate with calls the speaking times or similar. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You shouldn't use foreign words if you don't use them...!]] We have agreed together that the budget I have essentially negotiated with Christine Marek will also be represented by us. The Secretary of State will have enough time to present her positions – there is much to do in this area – in Parliament as well. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When? She doesn't trust herself!]] Now that the speaking time is still 2 minutes, to say that it is intended to deliver a basic opinion, I find it somewhat strange. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: She can also do it outside the television time!]] I also have to tell you – whoever organized this up there, I don't know! –, I simply do not agree with the dignity of the house. [[pointing to the gallery]] If someone wants to protest, he's supposed to do it where it goes, but not in there. Next is the insulation. This is one thing you will be able to judge in the form. But that someone – that is, from your ranks – still goes here and congratulates those, I do not think very appropriate either. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to comment on a few points of content. First: I have been accused of not answering the questions in the Committee on Budgets in due time. The opposite is the case. We had the meeting on Wednesday. In four working days we have to do this. We presented our answers physically just yesterday. Don't make sense! Then check it out! On the second point in this context – and that is a more crucial question. Mr. Haider and others said: Where were you when it was negotiated? – I’ll tell you where I was: by the way! And for a very clear reason: If we hadn't done anything in the family compensation fund, we'd owe €6 billion in 2014. And that is why it is important to establish countermeasures in a reasonable form. That is why we have not threatened anyone, but we have secured the future. That is true, and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Haubner, when you talk about the family tax compensation fund being overlaid with benefits that actually do not belong there, you are right. A part was suggested by you and others. I don't blame anyone. But if you pay €100 million for the maintenance of fathers who are fleeing somewhere, and then you don't even get the money in half, you have a permanent problem. It is the same with many other services, where one pays aid for school-free trips and not with others. Therefore, my proposal – and the Secretary of State will work there too – will: We work together on what is now necessary for restructuring – in a style that is appropriate and has little to do with emotions and so on. That certainly doesn't bring us any further.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39156	Since we are hopelessly in despair with the schedule, we must reorganize this. I ask the Klubordner to come to me at the next speech. Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39181	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! The topic of tourism: We all know that tourism is one of the most stable economic factors in Austria. Thanks to the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has responded in good time with Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, has financed special actions of Austria's advertising, and that there has been an increase in the Austrian hotel loyalty and the AWS. Now the budget has to be consolidated again. These special actions will, as I said, be withdrawn. The return on energy, of course, is very, very painful to the service sector. However, it was not introduced until a few years ago. But what is very, very helpful to us – and especially tourism is a strong industry that invests in a lot of things – is that the removal of the credit fee is finally carried out. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] When you look at the market study, you can see why the guests are so happy to come to Austria and why Austria as a tourist country is so positive internationally: first because we have such skilled entrepreneurs and employees in the tourism industry, second because of the beautiful hotels and the good infrastructure. We have a beautiful landscape, but the tourists are so happy to come to Austria, because Austria is such a safe country because you feel comfortable here because you feel safe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] If someone gets sick, he'll be medically cared for here. That is, when he travels to Austria, he simply feels safe in all matters. I have observed this discussion in the last few days and must say: I have to doubt this when I hear the words of certain Members. I would therefore just like to say: We live in a good country. Let us be proud that we can live in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that we are among the safest, cleanest countries. We know that we have the best pension systems and the highest share of the labour market. Don't let's break this! Let us stick to the matter and work for Austria so that we can continue to live in this country as we have up to now! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39239	I note that the amendment tabled by Mr Bucher is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39359	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39381	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mitterlehner, Minister of Economic Affairs, today criticised the different family benefits in his speech. I believe that as the Upper Austrian, it already hurts him a bit, that in Carinthia we spend 0.1 percent of GDP on family promotions, but Upper Austria spends only 0.03 percent of GDP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] They then push in so by the way, so “incompetent” that Carinthia makes it on debt. I believe, Minister of Economic Affairs, that you know very well the figures of the annual accounts, according to which the Styria with €670 million Minus, Lower Austria with €565 million Minus and Upper Austria with €351 million minus are much worse than Carinthia. [[The speaker holds a document on which a graphic can be seen, up to the height.]] Even in Carinthia, the figures are not good, but we are already much further on the path of consolidation than these federal states. I simply ask you to accept this once and not to make “substantial” carinthia bad again and again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] The topic of tourism: Minister for Economic Affairs, the budget has repeatedly been given the following note: We have to go back to the 2008 figures! We must take back the increases that took place in 2008! We need to consolidate again, we need to strengthen again! In order to boost the economy, an attempt was also made to invest in the companies that set up construction measures. But, unfortunately, tourism has not received any increases. I see that the Austrian advertising has been getting the same amount for over 12 years. If you expect a 2-percent inflation, that is €20 million, which we get less. Gabriel Obernosterer said from the speaker's desk, the Austrian hotel and tourism bank has received more. It's right, 2007 the ÖHT has received €35 million, 2010 only €25.8 million, and from 2010 to 2011 this will be reduced again by €1 million. [[Abg. Obernosterer: The AWS!]] – You said the ÖHT got less money! I think in tourism, we should go to the point of boosting, investing. Tourism provides 90 percent of investments in businesses within 50 kilometres. This means that money for tourism is invested directly in the local “small” economy. That's where we're going the wrong way I mean. But not only that we cut, not only that we give less money, in addition, we still have a lot of burdens on tourism. If I assume that the so-called AGES fee is €200 for the smallest operation and up to €13 000 for larger farms, the AKM also plans to impose additional burdens on tourism companies, and also makes the energy return compensation to tourists very much, I think: This is not the right way to burden tourism, which is currently running really well, on excellent numbers, by imposing more fees on it and giving it less money. I believe that the right way must be for the 188,000 people who work in tourism to show that we leave at least the existing achievements and do not continue to cut down on tourism, but rather promote it and keep it competitive internationally.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39451	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39470	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to talk about the economic situation and the measures that have been taken in recent months by the Federal Government over the last one and a half years, because I think that these were important ways of dealing with the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this economic situation in recent years has also called for many victims of workers in many areas. In particular, the members of the leasing industry were those who were first affected. Unfortunately, at this time of the so-called crisis, Zig thousands of colleagues lost their job. We are currently dealing with this crisis. Some speakers have addressed this great commitment in many companies and have meant that the entrepreneurs are on the right track and have dealt with this crisis. That is right, but as a trade unionist I would like to point out that workers and works councils with their trade unions, in particular, have made a significant contribution to the resolution of this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the order books fill up! That's right, and that's good. If you look at some of the instruments that have been used to deal with this situation, you can see that these instruments were completely, completely crucial. A number of foundations were initiated in this phase in Austria. Foundations were initiated, which enabled colleagues and colleagues to take up a new professional orientation in this foundation. Ladies and gentlemen have been better qualified and requalified. For the first time, we also had the opportunity not only to organise foundations in the super-business sector, but also to organise qualification and training measures in many companies. There were many, many colleagues re-trained or newly trained. I think this was important because, especially at this stage, during this period of training, the service conditions have not been terminated and workers have kept their jobs. Another instrument – the Minister also pointed out briefly – was short work. I would like to mention that the system, as it has been applied in recent months, was a good, a right, a reasonable one. Trade unions with works councils and works councils have done a great deal of work, especially in these regulations. It has been possible to secure employment with this instrument of short-time work. With this instrument, it has succeeded in exploring almost everything. Now, everyone in this country, but also across Europe, is saying that these instruments that we have used in Austria are the right ones. A great compliment to all those involved in the government that we as trade unions and as employees had this opportunity!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39511	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39533	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests and spectators at home! I think it's a bit strange that some panic comes here when young people get involved. I think: Let us be glad when they are involved and involved in politics! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stutter.]] It would also be a possibility for us to listen to them and involve them. [[Call the BZÖ: Budgetary order!]] If you are now addressing the house rules and the dignity of the house, I am surprised that you are questioning these actions – with all that has just gone down here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm glad the young people are still in the daytime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I would also like to mention at the outset – since this is the previous day of my 30 days in which I do not buy plastic – that there are glasses and glass bottles here as well as on the government bank. [[pointing to the speaker's voice]] Unfortunately, this is not the case all the time in the house. [[Abg. Amon: But in every committee room!]] Maybe that's something we could work on. Otherwise, I regret that we are unfortunately unable to hold our own debate on the environmental budget. It's always attached somewhere. But these are unfortunately the consequences if you don't have your own Ministry of the Environment. That is why I am now going to talk about environmental issues in the economic chapter and youth chapter, because I think we will find enough links with the environment in both areas. First of all, I would like to refer to the shopping centre regulation, which was amended in the course of the budget accompanying law. We all know the situation in the district suburbs, namely that there are always shopping centres on the outskirts, the town centres are dying and everything is moved outside. This means crazy land use. More energy needs and transport are generated. Then everyone laments that too much traffic is, but before it is shifted outside. The enterprises are provided with much free of charge, from means of taxation. This means that twelve football fields per day are consumed in Austria. I think it is obvious that this regulation has not worked so far. The consequence of the fact that it didn't work, but it can't be that they're being abolished right away, but I think then it needs better regulations. I don't think it's the right way to move that to the countries. We know how the pressure of industry is constantly being put on at the national level and also on the part of the mayors. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] - We see the consequences! It's spreading ever further. I do not think that is a good basis for your energy strategy, which I will come to speak on next. I said it all caused more energy. If you want to save energy, space planning is the first place you have to start. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] The so-called Energy Strategy: I don't think that's a strategy. You will now say that you and also the Minister of Agriculture are making 50 million € loose for the thermal sauna. That's okay, but it's just a drop on the hot stone. We would expect an energy saving billion and a strategy on how we can actually become energy independent. All the decisions we take here – the ElWOG for example; I hope that it will be better in the Eco electricity Act – contradict the goal of becoming energy independent. So there is no strategy, and I also do not think in the budget the appropriate means to ensure that it really is in the direction of renewable energy, energy independence. However, energy is an essential factor in climate protection. Austria is unfortunately a climate protection closing light. However, climate protection should also interest you as Minister of Economic Affairs, because all experts say it will be much more expensive if we do nothing. It is more expensive to pay for the damage than now to put in place climate protection measures. If you are talking about pain that you feel in view of the savings in the families and the reduction of resources for development cooperation, I am surprised, because the pain in financing pollution from industry has apparently not been so great, because they continue to finance you. I believe that taxpayers should also know that their taxpayers are paying for environmental pollution. The industry is granted pollution rights from taxpayers. I can't see that the public is supposed to do this – that's what the industry itself is supposed to pay for! – and then we have to pay for the damage, because our climate errors will cost taxpayers at least € 1 billion. Minister for Economic Affairs, I would also like to warn you, because I do not at all understand that pollution from environmental funds is paid for. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] If you want it, then book money in Your budget for it, because environmental resources are certainly not. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Also, it becomes quite clear that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed environmental ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39644	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39665	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I think now is the speech of Mrs. State Secretary!]] Mr. Linder, I'm very surprised and think it's very risky that you compare Upper Austria with Carinthia. I can remind you: Upper Austria has created balanced budgets by the year 2010 and has no debt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only courage, Mrs. State Secretary!]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mrs Brunner, I am very glad that there is additional funding for thermal renovation, namely € 100 million from the budgets of Minister Mitterlehner and Berlakovich from 2011. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Listening wants to be learned!]] They will also promote the thermal renovation of residential and business buildings. This, of course, gives rise to a high number of benefits. I only mention the increasing quality of living, the lower operating costs for each individual, the creation of sustainable jobs, the reduction of energy consumption and the reduction of CO2 emissions. But there are also important aspects. The thermal renovation is the right way to revive our local cores and city centers. Empty business venues can be reused again, and local and city centres are thus regained in attractiveness to the shopping centers in the periphery. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, as mayor in the climate and energy model region of Steyr-Kirchdorf, I am particularly looking forward to these resources because they are helping us to save energy. Ladies and gentlemen! The means of thermal rehabilitation are proof that this budget is also making important changes for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39734	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39755	Mr President. High house! First of all: Where is Mrs Glavischnig? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Get out! Not there! Go home already!]] I tell you in every form – and everyone who knows me knows it – that I deal with women and men the same way, even if I have political debates with them. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one needs me to come into this house with the Feminism Cue, no one! I don't make any difference. And believe me: I do not make any difference when it comes to whether a Secretary of State was a good choice or a bad choice, and I am completely in favour of the gender of the Secretary of State or of the Secretary of State concerned. That's what I want to do. [[Abg. Schönpass: There is freedom of expression!]] Of course there is freedom of expression! They just shouldn't come up with false arguments. Unpacking the feminism clause just because a State Secretary, a high-paid State Secretary, is not able to lose a syllable to family policy, while at the same time burdening families, I think it is a strong piece! And that's why you come with the feminism cult. Not with me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It was Madam President Prammer, who claimed in the debate on the occasion of the State Secretary's presentation – in fact – that there is a use that we would have to protect state Secretary in a little bit. We have demonstrated to you that the Socialists have already made a critical contribution to the presentation of Mrs. Sickl. No one has talked about feminism either, ladies and gentlemen, the High House. [[Abg. Amon: That wasn't all right either!]] So don't come to me with this feminism cult, you don't care! You've made a wrong choice! Culpa in eligendo! But that's what you're responsible for, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you have a Secretary of State who does not make five straight sentences in free speech is not mine, but your problem. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Moreover, this is just at a time when no one is as burdened as the families and thus the future. I tell you for the time being: The families are the future of this country – and exactly cut in this future Her banking minister is most deeply in it, and the State Secretary, who is paid to preserve the interests of the families, does not bring out a syllable, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: She gets silence money!]] Then the moral guardian of the house, the arbitrator elegantiarum, comes, Mr. Kopf, and tells us something about the “ word of the house”. – The dignity of the families, the poor families, the child-rich families, he does not have in mind today when he speaks of the dignity of the house. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, Mr. Sittenwächter: Look If you just look at the picture of Mr Grossruck today, you know who you have to explain the dignity of the house. [[The speaker keeps a copy of the image up.]] Mr Grossruck has nothing better to do during the debate than show Mr Petzner ass hoarse. You know, if you get upset as a moral guardian, but even sitting in the glasshouse, at least in your own group you should ensure that the dignity of the house is preserved. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, I am not concerned with the dignity of the house! That's what everyone's gonna do! You'll get enough pain money for that. By the way, too, Mrs State Secretary! 15 000 € are enough pain money for you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: government mannequin!]] I am concerned about the dignity of the families, the dignity of the poor, children's-rich families, ladies and gentlemen! This dignity concerns us, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr President, I have the entire speaking time of 10 minutes available. [[look at the flashing light at the speaker’s coil]] I don't know if that's already been told you. – Then I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39906	Mr President, I should like to thank Debates of your speaking time will soon be a legend. We have reached an agreement with your club on television time. You were reported with 3 minutes and colleague Markowitz with 3 minutes. The other BZÖ-Redners are accepted, but outside the television time. If you keep talking, you can do that for 3 minutes. You will then use the time of your colleague Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e39928	We have internally agreed that I will consume the speaking time. So, now to the neighbor who is playing as a moral watchman today. The Secretary-General of the FPÖ, the Secretary-General for Political Pollination, the Secretary-General for Political Styles comes out and joins the ÖVP. That also makes us look deep, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't have the dignity of the family in mind either! [[towards FPÖ]] Instead of offering to the ÖVP, you would have failed to take care of the families, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I want to tell you in every form: We have to wait for Mrs. State Secretary to say something about family policy at €15 000 a month – what Mr Mitterlehner has announced with the words that are still to come. She's just waiting for the ORF to turn off the cameras, but they'll be shot soon. You can talk soon, we'll wait for it. Mr President, perhaps you should introduce yourself. That would be a very interesting approach. If we wait for the FPÖ to represent the families, we can wait a long time. FPÖ is taking the first opportunity to present itself to the ÖVP, which we have seen today in the speech of Mr Kickl's Secretary-General. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I've already made the speech by my colleague, Fuhrmann, nervous. And I can tell you why. The families of this country are tired of constantly getting ahead of family politicians how well they are supposed to be, from family politicians who have to borrow children on every occasion so as to be “accessible” on the posters. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a shame – and that's what the families are pretty tired of. The Austrian families, the Austrian mothers and fathers hang out politicians who borrow children on posters only as a side work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not the family policy of the Austrian People's Party, which you constantly promote. The ÖVP has resigned as a family party, which is very pitifully resigned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ÖVP has become a banking party, has become a lobbyist party, has become a functional box party, and your State Secretary Remler is the best example of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40004	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! I am lucky to be able to speak once again after colleague Ewald Stadler. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You have a more pleasant voice!]] The clubmen of the other parties expressed their judgment on the behaviour of the BZÖ delegates very strikingly, did not help it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 15 000 € for silence on the government bank are already quite lush!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Screaming is not the truth either!]] Thank God the television time is soon over, and then there will probably be rest in your ranks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to come to the subject now. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She's just too cowardly to say something!]] A problem we actually have worldwide and also in Austria is that urban areas are increasingly booming, growing, but rural areas are more likely to lose growth and population. In Austria, this is in a weakened form, but it is also. We lose jobs, value added in rural areas. As a result – we have often been presented in the media in the last few days – the communities can no longer really maintain their infrastructure. It is therefore necessary to strengthen considerably the offensive programme which the Federal Government is already operating in this area. I would like to mention some of the measures: We must massively expand the infrastructure in rural areas, from road to broadband, from school to senior school. Rural areas are predestined to create jobs in the field of eco-energy. From biomass to the use of solar energy, in all these areas work and value can be created in rural areas. We need to intensify and expand the structural programmes that we are presented by the European Union, the Federal Government and the countries, although I think we are already very good on the road. In the end, it will be necessary that we also achieve a fair financial balance. In my opinion, it is absolutely impossible to see why a city's inhabitants should be worth more than one in the country. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] In this context, I hope that these four offensive measures will enable us to ensure sustainable growth in rural areas too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40113	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40134	Mr President. High house! Perhaps a few words on Mr Weninger's comments, which in his speech previously acknowledged economic and family programmes from the 1970s. That's where I really have to laugh. The fact that one draws on the era Kreisky for a future-looking programmatic is really not to be surpassed by ridiculousness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Learn History!]] Look Once you have entered the manual on freedom of movement, you can see what a proper economic policy is! On the allegations made by Mr Stadler: The number of children to be shown by the BZÖ Group would also interest me in the face of such family relationships. I'm sure she's not too high! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you at this point a few quotes on how the media, but also some of the country's leaders see this budget. Especially for the SPÖ and especially the Styrian colleagues, Voves was quoted, even if you do not want to hear it so often. He said: One cannot decide on burdens without any reforms. People have no understanding of this. – Ask your head of state, how he can say that, right now. The “Small Newspaper ” writes: The country is currently a country without a compass by the government. The government is on the abyss. - Yes, it is! At the head of the Republic emptiness becomes wide. “The dustlessness of their policies hurts.” – Listen carefully! Perhaps then there will be a change of opinion or a rethinking process. Especially for the ÖVP, Vice Chancellor Pröll, your Federal Party Minister: Josef Pröll, “the enraged hope bearer. ” As a “political wonder-wuzzi”, “as bed-priors” of his uncle – head of state Pröll – “landed”. - That's all you can add. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Catholic Family Association: If the families are fine, the economy is fine. Exemplary scrapping action against families and the youth immediately withdraw! - You can't find any words for it. The Secretary of State smiles, admittedly nice, but she finds no words for it. You could change it if you had it in your hands. Conclusion: The savings for families, in which young people are over €300 million heavy, over 80 percent of expenditure reductions carry the families, and that is a scandal. We wonder why the government is not setting clear signals in order to finally get the development of the currently low fertility rate in the right direction. Why Start You don't have social-political discussions to finally reach more children or increase children's desire? Think about the wise expansion of childcare facilities. Smart! It's not about having children and moving them to any childcare facilities right away. Development Finally, it is an attractive tax model such as that of the family tax division of the Freedom Party, which ultimately means: more children, less taxes. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That would only be fair. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Final rate: The budget with these fatal cuts in family and youth benefits stems from a lawn mower method in savings. The FPÖ will certainly never be involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40201	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40222	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Today we have heard very little about apprentices. This area has been grossly neglected, which I do not like at all. We need to relieve SMEs that strengthen apprentices. Federal Minister Mitterlehner, you were secretary to the Chamber of Commerce. I think there must be more impulses on your part in the future. You're someone who's standing for the apprentices, at least I thought so. That is why we need to relieve SMEs in the future, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises so that more apprentices are reintroduced. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One important point is that the Federal Government has created numerous over-company teaching workshops. Of course, every youth in a teaching workshop is important to me. However, this creates second-class apprentices, and you know that very well. If I look at the training compensation – it's not an apprenticeship compensation, it's a training allowance – the apprentices earn €240 in the first and second academic years. Now explain to me how someone gets over the rounds with 240 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I was an apprentice myself, so I tell you this very clearly. [[New call of the abg. May. Worm.]] And I say something to you in all clarity and in all clarity: Here, apprentices are created second class! On the other hand, if I look at the ÖBB, where an apprentice earns up to €1,300 in the third year of teaching, because they don't find any more apprentices, that's a scandal if you ask me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Furthermore, the attractiveness of the teaching professions in tourism is massively strengthened, because in this area we have more open teaching places for which no young people are found which we could accommodate there. I also looked at the other sectors and the figures of the Burgenland and Upper Austria from November: Compared to the previous year, there are more apprenticeship-seekers and less open apprenticeships there. We must therefore try to bring even more young people into the labour market and find them a job.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40283	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40304	I have just tabled a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40322	No, my colleague! Skill Would you please leave this to a subsequent speaker in your group?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40338	I will! Okay! I'll finish now. Later, at the end of the day, I will speak again on this section of the agenda and I will make this motion for a resolution. It is important for Austria that we strengthen the youth that we strengthen the apprentices. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And that's important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40377	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40398	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. See here and to Hau se! I would like to bring a little rest and contemplation back into this debate. A chapter or subgroup means business and research. I'm just about research. We have research in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we also have research in other ministries. One gets the impression that at the ministries the motto is: Youth is researching. Everyone can do a little research, everyone can be a bit researched and study, everyone can, of course, promote the research that is going on, and everyone can serve their clients, and of course everyone can also pay for their overheads. And I can't imagine that we need additional overheads in these times where we're supposed to be saved everywhere. I will therefore also make an appropriate request to pool all this research activity – and I am sure that the EIA, which always claims to itself to be an economic party, will also support it accordingly. Perhaps also to my colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, who is not present at the moment: We have not only tabled this request, but we have put in a total of about 30 applications. These proposals are, of course, also to be debated. – That on the issue of whether the opposition does nothing. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We cannot imagine that we want to pay these additional overheads everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40462	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40510	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40549	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is unsocial, unfair and family-friendly. I believe that with these three characteristics the budget can be summarized briefly. This is truly no reason to be proud of it, because almost every Austrian and every Austrian is affected by these savings measures. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The government seems to be resistant to advice, as it has not taken up proposals from the Court of Auditors concerning the savings in administrative reform or proposals from the opposition parties, in particular from our group – over 900 requests are untreated in the committees. That's obvious. Especially affected by the savings and savings measures are the families, the service providers in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Except for Bucher, no one's claping! The live transmission is over!]] The ÖVP has adopted itself as a family party – that has already been mentioned by a number of previous speakers today – and has turned to the banks. It is so, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to quote a statement made by your Foreign Minister, Mr Spindelegger, on 30 July. In a “ZiB” interview on November, he expressed his support for immigration: “With the aging process in Austria and the few children we have, our social systems are no longer viable by themselves (...) We have to look realistically into the future.” – That is a quote from your Foreign Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is probably also the new family policy of the ÖVP. Families are thrown down, the social importance of the family is reduced. It is €60 billion that the Austrian families bring for society free, and 80 percent of this family work is done by women. Since the introduction of the childcare allowance in 2002, this has not been evaluated. The amount of children's retirement, family allowances and care allowances increased by one-off. But this does not bet the loss of value: 18 percent loss of value in child care money, 13 percent loss of value in family support – and despite the introduction of the 13. Family aid, which has now fallen partially to the savings bank. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from BZÖ are still working for the families, we are the family party, we have done this in the past and we will do it in the future. We also have the future in our name, namely in the “Bündnis Zukunft Österreich”. In conclusion, I should like to make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent and thank you for your attention. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[13:05]] The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40761	Ladies and gentlemen! We now have two speakers from the BZÖ Group, who have spoken, but your entire speaking time for this item on the agenda, which has been agreed in the Presidency, is completely consumed, so that there is no longer any remaining speaking time, and therefore I cannot call you in accordance with all the agreements. I'm sorry, but that's the agreement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We give it to the Secretary of State!]] [[Abg. Grosz: We are no longer in the TV broadcast!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It counts the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.]] For this item on the agenda, we have had a presidential decision and also a club director's agreement to set the speaking times per agenda block, which is consumed. This was agreed by 41 minutes for each group and it is consumed accordingly. Mr Dolinschek spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40822	Mr President. A speaking time of 84 minutes has been agreed for our group throughout the day: in television time 41 minutes, and now we have 43 minutes left. That's what it's all about: If you speak outside of the television time, whatever chapter, this is included in the overall speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40856	Mr Dolinschek, I have to say that I am right in saying that the speaking time is due to the other items of the agenda, outside of the time of television. Then I call Mr Grosz. How many minutes should I hire you? – 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e40885	Mr President. High house! Our group would have liked to give the Secretary of State as a speaking time for the 41 minutes. – Of course, so that she can explain herself to the house. I should like to tell you, Minister of State Mitterlehner, that, of course, the Secretary of State can now speak, regardless of time limits during the ORF period of transmission. You can now talk 20, 30, 40 minutes! – And, Mrs. State Secretary, we want to do that from you too, because how long have you been a Secretary of State now? One and a half, two months? [[State Secretary Mag. Remler: No!]] If you don't even know that, it'll be very dangerous. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Since she gets 15 000 €!]] You are now one and a half months' State Secretary, have six to seven employees, beautiful premises, I suppose, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the Stubenring – three rooms, a secretariat, a office for the cabinet chief – get 15 000 € the second time, have already received the Christmas money, and have available a sumptuous fee of more than 1 000 € in your free cash office in the ministerial cabinet for food purchases. I suppose you've already immortalized yourself in some of your ministry's sintering brochures. I also assume that you have already purchased a service car and that the driver is included with the seven, eight employees. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] In other words, you, Mrs. State Secretary, have been a member of the German Federal Minister of State and have been responsible for families in that country for about two months at full regiment costs – according to the Constitution – and if I am not completely deceived, we are now negotiating in this sub-group 25 families and youth. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Were!]] We will be able to ask you, after so much excitement of the ÖVP to the level, that you will finally declare yourself and speak in this chapter in the House! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] The kind actions of Mr Strache do not help, either, but he says: No, no, you're so poor anyway, and this tow that you do to the government, and the desperate calls of SPÖ and ÖVP do not help. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Schleimspur!]] What we want in a living parliamentaryism is that you will finally come to terms with the family chapter, which is about deep cuts in the country and also about the future of all future generations, and explain your policy to this House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Primitiveness you can't learn, it's what you have!]] Because you and your policy, you are endangering the future! I'm trying to explain it to the ÖVP: They always pretend to be particularly refined in agriculture. [[Call BZÖ:FlyNiki!]] What does an old farmer do when he surrenders his farm? – He gives his court over to a next generation. But what are you doing? – They are not graves, but they burn down the yard immediately, so that nothing is available for future generations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] They cover all areas: Mineral Oil Tax, Pendler Payroll, you burdened in health, you burdened the disabled – instead of finally coming here and this year 2009/2010, taking advantage of this economic crisis to take a different path at the crossroads, namely finally to start a comprehensive state and administrative reform, so that in future we will make Austria more manageable to maintain it as a safe location with a high quality of life in the future. You don't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I recall your political action – and I quote, Mr President – a quote from a West Styrian EIA citizen who meant: [[Abg. Amon: Who was it?]] Do you know what the ÖVP is? First they cut through the belts and then they say: 'Shall stop bleeding!' Your policy is the same. First, with this budget, you will ruin the prospects of all people in the country, the opportunities for the future of the family, and then you say: Yeah, won't be so bad, will stop bleeding. In case of doubt, you will pay 15 000 € of the silent fee for not having to speak for being silent to the families, for not even using the favor of the hour and for taking the floor at the budget debate. Mrs State Secretary, I would like to ask you now – you now have time to speak – to finally comment on this budget chapter as a family chapter, a youth chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41060	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Markowitz spoke on his second speech. How much time am I supposed to set you up? [[Abg. Markowitz: (on the way to the speaker's desk) A minute!]] 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41096	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! I would like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in the value of Austria's advertising. Mr Minister, we have already debated this wonderfully in committee, and we have also followed the PISA study and, of course, we have calculated it. We will now list what Austria's advertising is missing – and of course also the economy and tourism et cetera. You'll get it in writing now. We will also make it quite easy for SPÖ, because there is a five-party request – Mr Minister – from 2007, where all five parties signed. That is why I am looking forward to the vote, because the SPÖ was there too. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you! – And I am delighted with the agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41143	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41221	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject are thus complete. [[Call to the BZÖ: Now the Secretary of State is coming, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Step back soon!]] [[Further calls at the BZÖ:Become Managing Director at Dolce & Gabbana! - That for 15 000 €! Unbelievable!]] [[13:13:27]] UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management UG 43: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41272	Now we come to the negotiations of subheadings 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management, as well as 43: environment. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41296	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It is still her free choice whether she wants to talk or not. She's free. Personally, I would have liked her to say something about family and youth. [[Abg. Strache: You don't have to insult them personally!]] That's right. Yes, you have to get in the tone... [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Bussi, you don't have to do Bussi, but as I said, we would have wanted it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Schleimspur!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] We make a request to the chapter on agriculture by Mr Jannach, Mr Linder, Mr Doppler, Mr Hackl, Mr Riemer and other Members concerning the introduction of an upper limit for agricultural and forestry holdings to €50 000 per farm per year from the agricultural budget. I put this request to you: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have tabled a further motion for a resolution on the increase in the rates of contributions to farmers' social security. We would like to have an information, including from the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Social Affairs, on how much the contribution burden in total for farmers in 2011. Motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach and other Members The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is invited to open negotiations at all levels in order to compensate for the bad situation of farmers caused by the 2011 budget.” For the first time, we discussed this with the Minister of Social Affairs yesterday: We do not see why families should be saved, why the care allowance should be reduced, why Disabled people are to be saved if individual large farms massively fund funding – beyond € 100 000. I am saving myself today, because the debate has been going on for three days now, the reading of all these pious and grave foundations, these industrial plants, which take hundreds of thousands of euros, while the small farmers stay on the road. I also wonder – and I also ask the Minister of Agriculture: Everyone now knows that 4,000 or 5,000 farmers have not received any AMA grants this year. I would be interested to see if a large company is below that which has not been paid out. We can't imagine that. This concerns only the small farmers who are not paid out. No industrial and commercial enterprise, no single Chamber of Agriculture has received this funding this year. Everything in this area has been paid out, but the farmers are not paid. We don't understand. [[Call at BZÖ: That's it!]] Social security: We have tabled a request and would simply like to know from the Federal Minister how high the loads are. There is an internal paper prepared mainly by Mr Donabauer. The summary of this paper reads: The additional burden of the measures in pension, accident and social insurance for the cumulative budget period 2011 to 2014 is € 260 million. We want the Federal Minister to know exactly how high the loads will actually be or whether this paper is true and why farmers are not informed about it. Mrs Brunner has today criticised the fact that in the environmental field – for which Mr Berlakovich is also responsible – little is going to happen or not to happen at all. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Zero!]] We have, of course, looked at the environmental policy of the Minister for Agriculture and found nothing but full-page advertisements in the daily newspapers, you remember where he is asking himself questions. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of a newspaper page up to date]] [[Abg. Grosz: Flight reports from Paris!]] – Air traffic reports, by the way. You have electric cars for service cars. How's it going? The driving feeling is great, says the Minister. Whoever still believes, politics is slow and weary, wrong. At the traffic lights I win the start, even if a Porsche is standing next to me. - Quote. This is the environmental policy à la Berlakovich. A great deal of money is spent on this, and in other areas the money is missing for useful environmental measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41428	The two motions for resolutions tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41536	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41557	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jannach! It's quite commendable if you think there should be certain limits. You could discuss that. But, very seriously, Do you really believe that Germany, as the largest net payer of the European Union with just under €8.8 billion, would be willing to accept this only – the €50,000 ceiling in the EU, in its large businesses –? Mr Jannach, so don't be angry with me, that's nice, that's something for the inn, but in the matter itself it doesn't help us. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: To accuse the Minister of inaction in environmental policy is a bit of a cutback. Don't be angry with me, Austria is the European model country in environmental policy. You should also take note of this! Show me a second country where so much for renewable energy, where so much is done in ÖPUL, in the environmental programme, as in Austria! [[Abg. May. Brunner: Every other European country!]] If you show me a second country in the European Union, you can agree with us on an objective debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture is a country economy, someone once said. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, the Jacob Auer!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to add to this, because the fact is – and let us be a little proud – that the Austrian farmers produce excellent: environmentally sound, comprehensible, with farm sizes that are miniature in the international competition, which have disadvantages in the climate, and under very strict – not to say the strictest – animal welfare regulations produce the best quality. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be proud of it – I have already done it –: The ÖPUL environmental programme is a masterpiece in Europe. Despite these outstanding facts and difficult economics, Austrian farmers must compete, international competition! It was remarkable: In the Committee on Agriculture, i.e. in the budget consultation on the agricultural chapter, there were quite legitimate questions about certain sizes of pig farmers, farms in Styria. You could think they're huge farms. But when I see this brochure here – 67,500 pieces – I have to say: Let us be proud that Austrian companies deliver the know-how there. [[The speaker keeps a brochure up to date.]] Or in Scotland: 220 cows with milk production of 11 000 litres daily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] With this competition, ladies and gentlemen, we have to compete daily. Or: Here you can read how the agricultural business becomes a high-tech industry – Brazil. They lead us around the world market so to speak, and in Austria we constantly believe that we have to deal with new controls, new tasks, AGES charges and other difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen! That won't be possible. We also have to compete. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] If I still have to learn that a campaign is being launched, that it is constantly saying that the food is no longer manageable, although it is now possible to detect 12 percent on average, then I can remind some of how the evolution of consumer prices is: Drinking milk fell by 6.3 percent from 1983 to this year, butter by 20 percent, Emmentaler by 19.4 percent. Do you know how the consumer price index developed over the same period? – A plus of 37 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Then always pretending as if the products of the farmers would develop in price, so to speak, infinitely, that is pretty slow. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, who deserves it? Who deserves it? Who deserves?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Each one of you knows that the proceeds from some areas of the product before accession to the EU were much higher – the wheat, the meat, whether beef or pork, the milk – and everyone knows that the compensation payments are only the remuneration of a part of these benefits that farmers provide. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Sure!]] I have no understanding of this if farmers are constantly pretended to be contributing to the price-driver. [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Kitzmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should think a little bit about it – and I say that the farmers also have a fair chance – to create production conditions that allow them to produce too. Some think you should have even stronger animal welfare rules. Yes, I am also in favour of animal welfare, but who is asking how the animal husband, Mrs Brunner, is responsible for animal husbandry? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Recently, an old farmer was fatally unhappy because a cow – unfortunately – took such a step that she died. This is not worth a message to Austrian television, but the rescue of a duck pair in a German pond is of course worth a message. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] This is where we wonder what value would be needed in reporting. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to really think about how the economy in the country could work in the future. It is not possible to endure further conditions, further difficulties, further requirements – animal health service, animal disease law, animal disease register, AGES fees and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It is the border in this area. Mr Pirklhuber, screams You don't! Help with a constructive solution! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Take a look at yourself in the mirror!]] This helps farmers, but not the stupid scream that can be heard here all the time!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41748	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41770	Mr President. I'm going to try to focus on my points now, because it's not possible to upgrade this whole schizophrenia somehow. [[Call the ÖVP: Be careful what you say!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If it is said that we are an environmental model country and we have high levels of animal welfare, but it is not possible to impose more constraints, then I am wondering. [[Abg. Grill: What do you think? Shame! - Sourry!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Amon.]] The fact that Austria is still half good in the environmental field is exclusively past earnings. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] We fall everywhere in the environment: waste prevention, air pollution and climate protection. [[Abg. Grill: What do you think...?- Oh, my God!]] Now to say that Austria is an example of climate protection – although we are climate protection in the final analysis, climate protection is the environmental issue of this century, and people are already dying, because we are doing as we do – is quite a hoon, I think. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Excuse me! Excuse me! Excuse me!]] - No! I am satisfied that anyone who criticises that we are no longer an environmental model country will be accused of being almost nesting dirt. [[Call the ÖVP: Apologize for what you said! Excuse me for what you said!]] I really don't blame myself for that because I certainly don't like it when I'm being addressed internationally to our miserable environmental balance. [[Call the ÖVP: Mrs Colleague, apologise for what you said!]] My goal is to get Austria back to being an environmental model country. [[Call the ÖVP: Mrs Colleague, apologise for what you said!]] Minister for Agriculture, I ask you to do something at last so that we can get back there. We can now look at what the environmental budget looks like, which looks just as much as the situation is. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We do not even have our own Ministry of the Environment, and this is reflected in the budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... not all right!]] [[Abg. Grill: Have a good time!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'm talking now! We'll be happy to discuss this later. [[Call the ÖVP:... very serious accusation!]] [[Abg. Grillish: If you're in a state, excuse yourself!]] [[Call to the BZÖ:Go, Mr President...!]] – Can I speak out, Mr President?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e41981	Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed exactly what Mrs Brunner said. She didn't accuse anyone of a mental illness. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] She's called a kind of politics. [[Abg. Grill: Let the Stenographical Protocol come!]] I will also update the Minutes to read it again. It may also be that I didn't hear it right. [[Abg. Grillitsch: I expect you to get the record!]] Personally, from this moment on, I have not heard a direct attack on a mandate of the ÖVP. But we'll check that out. I would also like to take note of the fact that one call or another is made, that this is really much more moderate than it was half an hour ago, and that it is now not too narrow to be, but simply to continue speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42036	I would like to be ready at any time to discuss the contradictions in environmental policy, also with the Minister of the Environment, but he rejects or opposes any public debate. I'm still going through my points, and I want to go to the old load renovation first... – Yes, it's public. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:... public discussion!]] You can link me in the back now, but that's not gonna happen to anyone in public. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We can meet once so that we also have a discourse – at any time. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:... public discussion!]] – Yes, okay, maybe to the Orf colleagues: The Minister is willing to discuss with me publicly – then you can exchange a bit of arguments. [[Call to the ÖVP: This will be a joy!]] – For me too, you can believe me! [[Abg. Grillich: This will be a pleasure to the Minister!]] Once again to the old load recovery, there has been shortened: 48 million € go from the renovation of the old loads to the public, to the general budget. This will shift the restoration of old loads into the next century, and I find this irresponsible, even as regards the future and the safeguarding of environmental conditions in the future. There are essentially zero ambitions – Mr Jannach has mentioned it – in environmental policy zero ambitions, zero commitment. The environmental promotion, which is the only means by which we can really promote positive projects, will not be increased. For this, there are investments in climate protection projects abroad – which is nothing but a free purchase – amounting to € 89 million. With this €89 million you could also take climate protection measures – for example – in Austria to keep value creation with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Of course, funds for self-advertising are provided for by the Minister. This is then justified with awareness-building. I think you can make environmental awareness without your photo on it. This does not have much to do with environmental education. But what is going on for me – and I have thought several times in environmental policy, now I really can't shake anything, but it's always possible – is the point that your budget, from the environment budget, is to be financed by environmental measures, pollution is financed by industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] They pay for the CO2 emissions from, for example, a new gas power plant. I wonder how your image as a mister is connected with energy autarchy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Call to the Greens: He doesn't have the image anyway!]] – The desired image. € 93 million in taxpayers' money They want industry to be allowed to emit CO2 – and that in the case of a climate balance, which is on the other hand, and although taxpayers still have to pay € 1 billion for the penalty payments. You will say that is regulated by law. That's right. But I would yell at your place, as loud as I could, so that I would not have to pay for environmental pollution from the environmental budget. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: At last change the law!]] [[Call the Greens.]] That's what everyone resists. I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to provide funds in his budget, in the economic budget, if that is already the case. I would have expected this to come from you. You didn't do that. I am sure that this will be changed because it cannot be. This is an environmental capitulation, and I think that at the latest today it must be clear to everyone that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42188	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42220	Mr President. – Mr Rädler, can I say something now, or do you want to? – Minister of State! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr State Secretary! Mr Auer, I now have a question about your opening statement that the Germans would not go along if we were to accept upper limits of funding. As far as I know, support limits are indeed a national matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] At least this is what the former Commissioner for Agriculture, Fischer, said – Fischler – who said that we had long been able to reduce these large payments to farms in Austria – to industrial plants, to large land owners. [[Call the ÖVP:Fisher!]] [[Abg. Huber: Support our request!]] So I think it's quite nationally possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The ÖVP can't stop!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At first glance, we have a agricultural budget which is quite acceptable and acceptable for certain areas of agriculture. Thus the jubilation, which broke out in the ranks of the peasantry, became known as the agricultural budget. You can read this in the “APA. ” That gave me a little caution and asked for increased attention from me. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] One has to consider: To these 2,140 billion € Federal estimates for agriculture, a few billions are added from various other resorts. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] I'm just saying, Export refund, agricultural diesel from the Ministry of Finance, rural social security from the Social Ministry; hail insurance comes from the countries, from the financial compensation – that is, a very nice latte. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Civil protection!]] And in addition, the promotions of the countries and communities are still coming. These €2.1 billion are by no means all the subsidies that are consumed or paid out here. Unfortunately, cuts are also necessary here, with the strongest cuts being made in rural development measures, and there again in measures which do not concern purely agricultural support. This is exactly the problem I am going to address very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, the rural area – which is about rural development – is a habitat for all people who live there – under quotation marks – but must be of concern to us especially with regard to small and medium-sized farmers and small and medium-sized farmers. jobs in rural areas, the farm workplace – an essential necessity; the transport infrastructure in rural areas – an essential necessity; Broadband development, education, schools et cetera, et cetera. All these areas must be taken into account when we talk about rural areas, and at least two thirds of the Austrians are still living there. However, in order to be able to obtain the workplace farm, it will be necessary to think carefully about the support system. It cannot be that we are driving all the smaller and medium-sized enterprises to block or force them to work, because the large ones are simply using too many subsidies. The smaller and medium-sized farms in particular are our main partners in rural areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a brain-spinning by me or by us in the social democracy, but it has even said – in short only – the Minister of Finance in his budget speech when he meant – I quote: [[call to the FPÖ]] “We have here” – and he said the rural area – “... Focus on the financing of projects in rural development.” – So, what more do we want? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... shortens it! ...cut it short!]] We are taking the Minister of Finance very seriously. In the government program – I said that at this point – is decided inside: “The Austrian Federal Government is committed to maintaining rural areas as an economic, labour and recreation area for all people from the city and from the country.” – Yes, if this is our objective, that the budget for agriculture is a good one, Mr. Federal Minister, then it is only more up to us, at our will. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Gritish]] Let's do it at last! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42424	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42445	Dear Mr Flying Niki Minister! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: FlyNiki!]] This budget is unique and alone impotent, it's imaginative, it's usually not worth even criticizing. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But, dear friends of the ÖVP and, above all, Mr Gaßner, you have the former commissioner – is he still a member of the ÖVP? .................................................................................................. [[Abg. Grillish: Commissioner! Not commissioner!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Commissioner! Commissioner is quite different!]] At the request of the BZÖ, Mr. Ex-Commissioner Fischler said that he urged all politicians in Austria to make a strong commitment to this cover. [[Abg. Grill: What did he pick?]] But for you, that's all to laugh. The grill can only talk stupidly, though Farm Federal President, betrays the farmers every day, but can do nothing but call in between. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Please, the interview with Fischler is just a fact. Ladies and gentlemen, all the net payers in the EU – all net payers – want the agricultural budget to be reduced. This is also known by our Federal Ministers – the Minister of Banks together with our flight minister. You know that very well. If such cuts occur, we must act today. Today, we must ensure that the promotions of industrialists, the ÖVP multimillionaires and the Raiffeisen functionaries are cut short. [[Abg. Grill: Exactly! That's right!]] Let's change that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The BZÖ has already submitted the request that this ceiling should be reduced to €25 000. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Why don't you hear anything? Mr President. There's nothing left to hear!]] That's how we secure the workplace farm. Mr Gaßner, why do you not agree? That's easy. You can also talk about the height. That's not a problem. You can talk about it, you can talk about the height. We have to rework there because this is a betrayal of the peasantry. The farmers no longer want to be bitt makers of the ÖVP. Farmers want to be able to live on their products, and we have the framework to create. But the policy of our Minister of State speaks for himself. Today’s “ÖsterREICH” newspaper: Nothing but self-devotion of the Federal Minister! You're gonna hit the farmer in the face. Farmers pay millions. Every farmer is enslaved by the AMA, pays marketing contributions. And who's advertising? – The Federal Minister does self-advertising, and the AMA does nothing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The AMA does not even comply with the controls. These are facts. Mr Federal Minister, if we are not seriously starting to make a policy for rural areas, for farmers, then we are doing billions of damage. No one understands that anymore. We know exactly from the Committee – this is what experts have said: If the milk quota no longer exists and policy fails to respond, all pastures will die in rural areas. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] You won't believe that some farmer in the Zillertal is still producing milk on the alm! Who will pay for these billions of damage to tourism? You don't think about it at all. Once we compare EU countries, we compare Italy, Germany and Austria. Let's compare the cooperatives: Where there have been Raiffeisen cooperatives for 60 years, the farmers are financially in the end enslaved – that is the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have always preached: We need big dairies, little ones don't make sense to lead. - I'm bringing you an example now. In Cussignacco – this is at Udine, 120 kilometres from Lienz – there is a private cooperative with 17 members. These 17 members today have a milk price of €1.20, and in 2009 there were still €17 000 worth distributed to the members! In Austria, the profit is made the same way, but only hundreds of thousands of farmers have to start here so that Raiffeisen can make his big profits. There's a need for liberation, so it needs a re-translation! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Again and again it is said that the opposition had no proposals. Please, we from BZÖ have made so many proposals! Let's take a look at it: Let's make the farmer an entrepreneur! The farmer does not want 81 percent of social security contributions to be paid by the Banking Minister Pröll. No, let's raise farmers' income! The farmer is mature, the farmer has no problem with that. But then we also abolish the basic tax, because we cannot punish the powerful society. The basic tax belongs away! This concerns every house builder, that concerns everyone. Let us then determine the income that farmers will have no problem with it. Mr Donabauer may no longer have a chauffeur, but the farmer has no problem paying his social security contribution from income. We must finally stop putting in the back the industrialists, the millionaires, into the back. Take an example in Switzerland! In Switzerland you can see it exactly: There are 97 percent of farmers members of the Farm Chamber, but there is no compulsory membership. [[Abg. Hornek: Not so aggressive!]] Switzerland has introduced that farmers are accountable for the fact that they have to determine income. The farmers have nothing against it! If you do it properly, then politics also creates the framework conditions that the farmer can live from his product and is thus safeguarded in existence. Or: In Tyrol alone, we have 25,000 stable holes – why do we not make photovoltaic systems on them? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] Why don't we go here and say, It is not the TIWAG that is supposed to cash millions so that the ÖVP can lead election campaigns with millions of TIWAG sponsored, but the farmer should profit!Unknown term type: "%s".? Why don't we do that? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You're right!]] They don't say: We stand by the family, we stand for the farmer! [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] But with this betrayal, the farmer gets mint now! The farmer no longer wants to be dependent on the Raiffeisenbank alone. He wants to be free, and he wants to live on his product. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] We have made so many sensible requests, but you are simply voting them away! You're all right, or you're gonna postpone it. I agree that we from the farmer make an entrepreneur that AMA is finally being reformed, that the AMA is going here and making a real product marketing, in Europe! Let's stop genetic engineering! Then Austria will benefit from the fine food shop of Europe, and the farmers. Farmers benefit – perhaps not as much raiffeisen as the main earners are on the big import raiffeisen. For this reason and because there are so many dangers now, it is also important for me to present here a motion for a resolution on compensation for the federal cuts in the rural development sector. Everyone knows that 78 percent of our population live in rural areas, and instead of changing, you cut the funds. The application is as follows: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is invited to forward to the National Council a draft law immediately providing for measures to compensate national cuts in rural development.”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42690	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42748	Mr Huber! For the statement “Parliament Grillitsch can only speak stupidly,” I give you a call for order. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Is there a leaven?]] Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42784	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural and environmental sectors are also contributing to the reorganisation of the budget. These two sectors also support and contribute to the general path of a rehabilitated state budget. At the same time, however, farmers' payments are ensured that climate protection is enhanced, renewable energy is expanded, protection against natural hazards, such as floods, is not reduced but continues to be financed, while saving potential is raised. The agricultural and environmental budgets are both reliable and secure. [[Abg. Huber: Don't talk, don't talk!]] The potential for savings relates to the administration, the use of synergies from different areas, and so I can address the chapters in detail. Contrary to the allegations of some previous speakers, Austrian agriculture is well placed if you consider it internationally. You only have to look at the figures objectively. We are on the right path and are praised for this path across Europe. As part of the reform of the common agricultural policy from 2014 onwards – what is the point: is our agriculture in Europe now moving towards industrialized mass production or towards a sustainable, ecological path that we want to go and continue in Austria? - We're at the crossroads. We have now taken this path, and I believe that this is also the right way for Europe: sustainable farming in the agricultural sector, ecologically, because it also expects society from agriculture and forestry. We have taken this path, and the figures are as follows: We are world organic champions, no single state in the world has managed so much space biologically as Austria. – I don’t know what you’re doing and why you’re the greener consistently making Austria bad. I don't understand. [[Abg. May. Brunner: We don't do it bad!]] The objective figures say that we have an ecological area like no one else, that we are an environmental model country, and you like the role of bad-making. I don't understand. Explain this to the Austrians, I don't understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I'm sorry. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They make it very easy!]] Austria is a bio-world champion. We have one of the most recent agriculture in the European Union – one of the most recent agriculture, that God is grateful to young women and men to be active in the agricultural sector. We are still small-structured and diverse. States like Germany and Holland were quoted here, which are doing everything in the agricultural sector. Some industrial agriculture takes place there, not as with us in the Alpine region small-structured and diverse. We are pioneers of ecologically oriented, environmentally sound agriculture. And: It would be inconceivable for domestic agriculture and forestry without women because half of the farms are run by women. There too, this sector is a show sector, and we want to continue this path in the sense of society. Of course, income security plays a role. The WIFO has examined what it would mean if direct payments for farmers were reduced or discontinued. We would lose half of the agricultural holdings – in the mountainous region 60 percent – and a hundred thousand jobs in agriculture plus additional 23 000 jobs in the other rural sectors. The rural development programmes, the agricultural programme produces positive effects in rural areas. You talked about it here. While urban areas are growing stronger than rural areas in all regions of Europe – I am only talking about Europe – it is reversed by the WIFO in Austria. Here, rural areas even grow a trail better than urban agglomerations, especially through the rural development programme. That is why we also need to maintain these things – as I am entirely with you – because we are very much in favour of them – I am in favour and support the way – that the agricultural, economic, commercial and tourism sectors work together. This is actually the magic word for having a viable rural area, and of course urban areas. Agriculture had a 28 percent income reduction in the previous year, 2009. This year we will again have an income increase, but we will never compensate for these losses. That is why I was concerned that farmers' payments should not be cut short. That was the challenge I had in the agricultural budget, because it was the EU funds, the funds we receive from the European Union and paid to farmers in the form of eco-premiums, that were also affected by the cuts. That would have been the wrong way, because if we had shortened these funds, we would have left money in Brussels. It was always our policy that we trigger every € that lies in Brussels and thus improve Austria's net balance of payments. This is a clear policy that has been secured. At the same time, we would have cut income from farmers, land premiums where they carry out eco-services, and that would have been wrong. I managed to negotiate this, and that is very important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why this budget is also a budget of reliability, because farmers have entered into several years' commitments in the environmental programme for the mining industry. For example, a organic farmer has committed himself to economics for five years, the state has then assured him that he will receive an eco-loan for his services, and that is these premiums. If the state says: I'll give you that, then it's a break of trust, and that wouldn't be in the sense of reliability. But now it is guaranteed. We do not cut down on environmental programmes, not on mining support, nor on investment promotion, because it is economically invigorating and necessary in difficult times that the agricultural and forestry sector also invests. Nevertheless, agriculture makes a contribution to the reorganisation of the budget by taking away the representations of interests, the Chambers of Agriculture, cuts, the associations also take cuts and we take this difficult path together. I would like to thank the interest groups for taking this path together. It's not easy to restructure things here. In the agricultural administration, too, the AMA is reduced to raise savings potential, and so on. All this means creating new structures, rethinking structures, updating them, modernising them, but at the same time having a dynamic in the agricultural sector in the direction of food production and food safety, that people in Austria can also feed at reasonable prices, that food is also secured in local regions, and that nevertheless, Austria's fine food shop becomes true by being successful abroad, on foreign markets. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is about agriculture, which, by producing renewable energies and protecting the environment, naturally creates a close to the environment, because I am not short in the field of climate protection, not in the field of renewable energies, nor in the protection from natural hazards. On the contrary, we have offensive measures. By ecologizing the tax system we receive additional funds that we invest, for example, in thermal renovation. Apart from schools and universities, there will be €100 million annually for thermal renovation from next year. This is a clear contribution to climate change, by which people save themselves money in the wallet, because they spend less on energy costs – an important point. In addition, it is about promoting the environment in the country, the climate and energy model regions. Measures such as promoting electromobility in certain regions, which we also extend, up to the climate:active programme are responsible. The fact that we need to do more in climate protection is undisputed. We need to do more in climate protection, but that, against which I turn, is that you are consistently talking about Austria in terms of environmental conditions. I don't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Brunner: We don't make Austria bad!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I do not understand this because it is objectively so that Austria is an environmental model country, while other countries achieve their climate change objectives because they rely on nuclear power, for example France. Germany is now extending the terms of the nuclear power stations – you are obviously in favour if you say so – and thus Germany achieves its climate protection goals. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Please go! Don't think we're stupid!]] [[Further calls.]] That's a fact! Austria has no nuclear power. Austria is also free of genetic engineering. Other states rely on genetic engineering, we don't. My initiative was taken up by the Commission by Commission President Barroso: We want future states like Austria to have a right to self-determination of the nation state. [[Abg. Brosz: What initiative do you think?]] – We want to decide for ourselves what happens on our fields, and we want to remain free from genetic engineering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mentioned the organic farming sector where we are world organic champions. We have a leading position in renewable energies. We have drinking water quality of our lakes. People are supplied with drinking and groundwater in the highest quality. We are in top positions when recycling waste. While other countries deposit everything, we use a lot of reuse and the rest energetically. In other words, we have top environmental positions that could be achieved through joint efforts. They are common efforts that can make our people proud, because a great deal has been done and is also done because climate change is a threat, but climate protection offers opportunities by creating green jobs, especially for women, highly qualified jobs in renewable energy and organic agriculture, also in environmental technology, where in Austria we have top companies in the field of waste management, water supply and waste water management, where we offer technical solutions in the country, but also have answers for the world abroad, particularly in relation to climate protection. [[Calls for Greens]] This budget supports our strategy. I invite you all to take this path of successful agriculture, an energy-autarchic Austria in which we create green jobs and also succeed abroad, which reaches the environmental goal. Thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42945	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e42966	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! 3 minutes on the subject of environment, television no longer transmits, colleagues are elsewhere: I understand that Mrs Brunner is dissatisfied. – I would like her to listen to me now at least, but I am not allowed to do so either. [[Abg. Grillish speaks to Abg. May. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: If so, my colleague Grillitsch...!]] [[Further calls.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have a pleasant situation in Austria. [[Call the SPÖ, and they'll talk to each other once.]] Environmental model country – the Federal Minister has made it clear. Our environmental spokesperson from the Greens even says literally that Austria is “a good part of it,” I thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's the first time you really praised us. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Not us! I said: Austria! You're confusing!]] Yes, that Austria “stands good for half”, I thank you very much for that. I would have liked you to have said exactly that when the European Commissioner for Climate Change was here. You have held the presidency during this discussion, and you have again dubbed well into Austria. That was very unpleasant and sad, but that's the way it is. Unfortunately, abroad, I have often experienced you chatting in Austria. That doesn't have to be, but it's a pity. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is an environmental model country, but we have many tasks to solve, that is not a question. Much has been done well in its own field: Water, forest, air, we're not that bad on the road. Of course, there is a question that concerns spatial planning and land sealing. On the issue of flood protection, we see that in the future we will have some issues to discuss. But it is quite certain that climate protection is an issue that we can no longer solve alone in Austria, and that the real issues of the environment are European or even international. That is why I am very glad that our Austrian negotiators – on the one hand the officials, in the final phase also our Federal Minister Berlakovich – have proved themselves so well in Cancún. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was in Copenhagen last year, and I experienced how sad the discussion actually happened. The President-in-Office of the Council is today a Commissioner for Climate Change for Europe – well! But Cancún has done better. There was another perspective, and that made something very important: Kyoto may have a connection perspective. Not only will Europe feel responsible for climate change, but a global agreement could be the basis for further action. This again is very important, because climate protection means nothing but the reduction of the use of fossil energy sources. And fossil energy sources, that is, in reality: The oil should be used as sparingly as possible. If you use oil sparingly, you will try to avoid oil as much as possible where people have little income. That means, in German: With us, with the simple people for the heating of the house and also in the sensitive countries of the world, in the low-income countries, it will be necessary to change very quickly to create renewable energy sources as the basis of economic development. Only then will the people and the countries hold back the surer oil price increases. Climate protection means nothing but maintaining our economy and our incomes in growth, and it means nothing but keeping value added in the country. That’s exactly what “rural development” is. And, Mr Gaßner, I can say one thing when we talk about rural development: Never forget, the backbone of the rural area are the farmers! Where it works, it's the farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this will always be so! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43072	Mrs Brunner addressed the following: They have accused the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of "Schizophrenia" policy area as a whole. [[Abg. Brosz: That's not true!]] I took an insight into the stenographic protocol. As this is a serious accusation of a mental illness, as you know, I give you a call for order for this claim and seek to be more cautious in the future when it comes to the choice of words. Thank you. Next speaker: Mr Doppler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43106	Mr President. Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The burden in the agricultural social security scheme, the removal of the benefit for accident insurance, the increase in the contribution of pension insurance, the saving of family allowances, which is particularly true of the farmers' families, ladies and gentlemen, because they usually have more children than other families in Austria. Income decreases of up to 28 percent for farmers! The bureaucracy is flourishing, the conditions and regulations are becoming more and more. No wonder that more and more farmers stop and leave the farms, especially by-catch farmers, they are also punished for working. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all remember very well how a certain Minister for Agriculture Josef Pröll made a great promise for the farmers. A large-scale administrative simplification has been announced. Only: Where'd she stay? She's never been implemented! As a “thank” for this, farmers receive less support or are later paid out. The farmers will know how to evaluate it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43164	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43210	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43231	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Also in the field of agriculture: It is saved, in sum it is a bit over 500 million €. But it is fair to say that a large part of this concerns the social sector. My previous speaker mentioned that there is at least €30 million a year in the Federal Insurance Grant, and that the total amount is €116 million by 2014. It is also, I would like to say very critically, saved in some rural projects. They're trying to make restrictions. Some Projects are to be postponed. I believe that this is a very crucial and important point because, as has already been said, rural development and rural areas are very important not only for agriculture, forestry and farmers. In rural areas, not only farmers are at home, this is important for the whole population. And since rural areas are of the utmost importance for social democracy, I would like to ask you, Minister, to take special care of the development of rural areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Government has jointly succeeded in achieving, in the area of funding, in particular from the EU, that the funding and compensation payments will remain the same by December 2013. However, I would like to mention that we must have the greatest interest in trying to distribute the promotions more justly. There are, in particular, a number of very constructive proposals made by Mr Gaßner. We should take these proposals more into account in future discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43274	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43295	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the third day, the nerves are already white. Members leave the house in some ways, because the culture of discussion here is the same as it is. At the end of his speech, Mr Auer spoke of the “blessed cry” that is constantly being made here. – Yes, listening to criticism is one thing, and really absorbing and understanding what it is about, the other. There I am with Mr Berlakovich. Mr Minister, it is really very unpleasant and worrying that you do not miss an opportunity to polemise from the seat of government against the opposition. Nothing else is what you do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Huber.]] Nothing else if you say that we'd be in a bad mood. – What is the opposite of making bad? – Beautiful speeches, is that it? Is that what you're trying to distract from, maybe you're talking a lot of things? And is such a attitude to accuse the opposition of sluggish step and to speak all of it, not somehow very close to what is called a split tongue – or, as you say in the mouth of the people: That is a totally schizophrenic situation: a to say and b to do!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Yes, these are the problems that people face, namely farmers, consumers, citizens in this country, when they say: Everything's in the green area. The green jobs...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43328	Mr Pirklhuber, you really have it elegant – I have to admit to you – but at this point I expressly note: With all the political contradiction that we have, the accusation that a different political opinion is presented as a mental attitude is always, for me, always a question of order-callerism. I'll keep it that way in the future. Even if you have described it beautifully, with a parabola in this case, I ask you to take into account that in a democracy one also shows respect for the attitude of other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43364	Mr President. Of course, please! I should also like to pay tribute to the Members of the Government, of course also the Minister. But I expect you to say the same to the Minister. I would also expect Minister Berlakovich to do the same – and not that kind of polemic from the government. That's why it's here to make this clear. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Huber.]] We are already at the heart of the agricultural and environmental budget. Finally, this agricultural and environmental budget raises the question: Who really is being promoted here, who is really protected here, who stands for green jobs and who stands for rural jobs here? This question should be discussed cleanly and properly. I would like to ask the Minister once again when he has used this debate to clarify how the agricultural system becomes fairer, more ecological and fairer. – This is exactly what Commissioner Cioloş did in his November option paper; and it would be only right and reasonable for the Minister to use the opportunity to represent his position in this budget quite clearly. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] The expert hearing you call, Mr Federal Minister, we have enforced as parliamentarians. There we have called our experts from the political groups, yes, we have done so. The ÖVP has also served its experts, right. But: They gave us a clear message again in the Committee on Budgets. You said: The maximum ceiling you can imagine in the agricultural sector is € 800 000. Mr. Federal Minister, this is a horrific – a horrific! – for all farmers who do their work every day, manage our cultural landscape, produce food. 800 000 € upper limit that you can imagine! What if we demand this at European level? – This is a declaration of bankruptcy for a policy not for small farmers, but for a handful of large agricultural groups or farms in Austria! For estates and large-scale industry – that's it! – for those you throw yourself into the fire. That's incredible! Average income – let's look at the average income in agriculture –: €19 000. It is absurd to say that farmers earn too much if it is an average of €19 000! And of these agricultural incomes – even this does not want to hear from the ÖVP – already 92 percent are agricultural subsidies! - Yeah, right, that's what you need to discuss, Mr. Eßl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what you need to discuss and explain, what that means: This means that farmers produce almost zero-tariff food and thus ultimately supply cheap raw materials to the industry. Is that okay? As farmers' representatives, I find it disastrous if an economic sector is treated in such a way that its raw material production, its food production is no longer paid, so that we can only compensate for it more through funding. And then to protect the great ones who receive more than €800 000 in Europe today! Only 14 percent of businesses within the European Union receive 80 percent of the total funding. You have made no statement as to whether you want to end the export subsidies. Mr Gaßner has rightly made this up: These are Red Bull, Agrana and other promoters, the large industrial companies, also in Austria, and they want to further protect you who will be Continue to promote them. That's sad. On the other hand, there are – and this is the Tragic – 4 500 companies that for the first time receive no funding, get nothing paid, don't get a cent before Christmas, for which you don't get into the break! These are the farmers concerned, who now have no cent in the account before Christmas and who finance their bridge credit through the raika. This kind of action you have launched is a sad chapter for agricultural policy. If we don't succeed... – Yes, that's sad, colleague Hornek. [[Abg. Hornek: Is there no shame in what you say!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is a suspicion in the room that you are punishing those companies that are politically active, who work in a wide variety of ways and work diversely – and this has recently been noted by Mr Gaßner – and this is a matter of urgency. [[Complementary with the Greens as well as with Mr Huber and Mr Windholz]] Then: We would like to have the risk assessment of the AMA on the table at last! You'd have had enough time to present them to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43494	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43564	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43585	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Now, again, from these unsustainable suspicions, which are unfoundable, Mr Deputies, and away from the unnecessary polemics, which also have no place in agriculture, to a matter-oriented and objective policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Good at the beginning: With the 2011 Federal Proposal, adequate funding is budgeted for Community programmes and with the Green Pact, Austrian agriculture has implemented a rural development programme for the period 2007 to 2013, which it can not only be proud of, but also ensures the income of rural families. They all know that the priorities – I probably do not need to list them here – such as AZ and ÖPUL, but also the improvement of competitiveness, the quality of life, the diversification of the rural economy and the leader projects for rural people, and especially for small-structured Austrian agriculture. This is also indispensable for women's businesses, which are among the smallest in Austria. We have already heard that 40 percent of the farms are run by women and that about half of the people working in agriculture are women. It is therefore important to ensure that they can, of course, participate in the rural development programmes and projects of their professional group. In 2011 a total of €1,079 billion in EU, federal and national funding was budgeted for rural development. In the chapter on agriculture, forestry and water management, the Federal estimates amount to €2.141 billion. This also makes it clear that, in the agricultural sector, significant cuts are made in the same way as in other budget chapters. It pays off – I would also like to tell my previous speakers – to look at the details, to look at the details, then you will see where it is saved: especially in the administration. It is thanks to our Federal Minister Niki Berlakovich that it has succeeded in securing the payment of benefits for farmers. Less gratifying – we have already heard this – is the area of social security for the rural families. We know that every third accident in agriculture is taking place, that there are serious accidents and that it will be necessary to rethink accident insurance with the removal of the federal grant in accident insurance amounting to €30 million. Of course, it is appropriate to work more intensively on this, because it is also necessary that good accident insurance for farmers is also available in the future. The gradual increase in the contribution rate in pension insurance from 15 to 16 percent will also bring an additional burden of €60 million for rural families – even rising. In return, there is a reduction of fictitious excretion by 5 percent in this period. These are measures to be carried out by the rural working group, which are enormous challenges. But we know that, in the sense of a consolidated future budget, these measures must also be implemented. As agriculture is the backbone for rural areas, this budget is the backbone for stable future finances.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43643	The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43664	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I am going to devote myself to the issue of AMA today. You will, I think, guess why: These are the delayed ÖPUL payments and the delayed compensation payments. These are to be paid to over 4,000 farmers – I think they are 4,700 – only in February 2011. ==References====External links== They also receive information on the need to wait for the payment of operating premiums until the end of April 2010. Mr Minister, this situation is really unacceptable for farmers, and the blame for this delay is probably clearly with the AMA! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The AMA has an annual budget of € 52 million, and of the 555 employees 131 are used as a control body for which € 5.8 million is spent. I think this clearly shows that the AMA has gone miles away from its actual task of putting in place marketing measures, applying for agricultural products, opening up labour markets. To the main task of the AMA has developed the control of the farmers – and that is very, very objectionable! Requirements for the controls are 5 percent of farms. Let's say that's 10 000 farms. On a request from me, I was informed that in 2008, some 20,000 complaints were identified which led to a recovery or a reduction in the payment of some 14 000 holdings. Mr Minister, explain this to me! I do not assume that all the companies had to face concerns, so the controlled number is much higher. There is probably the impression that only to demand money is controlled! In addition, the AMA is delayed by the unnecessary number of controls, and the sufferers are then the farmers who have to wait for their money for a long time. Considering that € 5.1 million was recovered from farmers in 2008, you can think why it is controlled. If one also knows that the staff costs for the control bodies amount to € 5.8 million, the impression is that it is controlled to ensure that the control bodies themselves are financed by sanctions. The money of the European Union for agriculture will be transferred at the latest on the third working day of the second month following the month on which the payment was made by the paying agency – I have this information from the AMA. This gives the impression that the EU's payment mode is delaying payments to farmers this year in order to avoid having to report negative financial statements to the AMA. That would be a possibility. The fact is, there really isn't anything right about it. I have received an e-mail from the newly founded AMA payout platform, and here the farmers concerned clearly say that they do not want to go into new dependencies through the inclusion of bridge credit. That is understandable, that is legitimate. The farmers have conditions that it really is so powerful. Almost in the monthly cycle, new shocks are invented, but the money does not even come when they need it. Where are the farmers' rights? Why not send them a catalogue of sanctions and publish it? Mr Minister, how farmers are dealt with is a shame! Please close the procedure at the AMA and fix the AMA, which should consider being there for the farmers and not against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43727	The next speaker was Mr Sacher. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43749	Mr President. Federal Minister! I hope that the rest of the House will follow this debate on agriculture closely! Dear colleague Schultes, dear Anna Höllerer, you have said that the farmers are the backbone of the rural area. [[Abg. Ing. Schools: Yes!]] I can explain this a little differently: You are an important part of the rural area. Unfortunately, the backbone has become weak in recent years by the agricultural policy, so that the rural area is very curved, ladies and gentlemen. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Eßl: Tell Mr Prehauser!]] Mr Eßl, I would like to stress very strongly what Mr Gaßner, our agricultural speaker, said earlier: We are talking about rural areas, more than just agriculture, more than farming, all rural people who see their home in rural areas! Ladies and gentlemen, I can only confirm this. I represent the forest district, I come from the Krems district, that is the district with the lowest average income in Lower Austria. And if we did not have the good level of income in the industrial and commercial sector of the city of Krems, we would also have a very low purchasing power, which would be very damaging to agriculture once again. I therefore know how important it is for us to invest in rural areas and especially in these weak regions, and for their positive development, the SPÖ Group has made a great effort in the Committee and in all its actions. In addition, we are striving for a modern agricultural policy and are very much committed to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What exactly, ladies and gentlemen? – We are committed to greater income-righteousness for the working people in the farm. We are committed to reforming the system, which needs to distribute the funding more justly than before, which increases the value of the labour force and takes it as a measure and not the large areas and industrial production forms! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We like that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There you have our support! Do something too!]] And we also support the elimination of cemented regulations, such as uniform values, which are the basis for many long-awaited achievements. With a modern agricultural policy, we Socialists want to promote the development of rural areas for all people, and I say that as a forest-fourth representative, we often want to turn this really dramatic migration from rural areas into positive ones. That is why we Socialists are committed to a positive, modern agricultural policy and we have also worked responsibly in this agricultural budget and have contributed to it. But, frankly, Minister of State: In a number of areas, we would have expected even more reform and efficiency improvements in the system from the government partner and, above all, from the Farmers' Federation. I would like to conclude by what I often hear from many in the rural area and from the farmers. It has been 40 years since Kreisky made big reforms for the farmers, and many say: Those were the times when Kreisky made good reforms for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43862	Next speaker: Mr Linder. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43884	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! We have heard many times today how difficult the situation in agriculture is. There are income losses, and I have already brought the example I have experienced in my own body: I've been a farmer since 1989. For the first bull I sold, I converted € 4.54 per kilo, today we move in a range of €2.80 to €3. We all know, too, that this can only be balanced by means of promotions, that it is only possible to wager on these promotions the loss of income, but also to guarantee the population reasonable food prices. The fact that these promotions also carry out crazy controls is the next drops of advertising. Here I say quite consciously that these controls are partly so dramatic that no financial control, no tax control, no control of the local health fund can be as bad as it is an AMA control. But that too, I think, is still taking a lot of farmers. But what I see as the big problem for us in the future is that the farmers are being pushed into a spiral – growing or softing – that they have investment pressure and have to see whether they are investing, getting bigger – or perhaps staying on the track. And unfortunately, it is the young farmers who say from the outset: I don't see any perspective, I don't see a future! It would be a very important task if we were to get inside here once in a while to understand what we want: Do we want to continue to maintain small family farms, or do we want to move towards industrialized agriculture? Mr Eßl, when I think of the last Agriculture Committee meeting, in which you said quite clearly: We must maintain the milk quota in the favours!, I must say, I think that is not a signal to the “delegated” agriculture, to the small farms. If we want to obtain them, we must try to continue to grant quotas in the form of a delivery right to those farmers there. Or, however, we go the way to say: into large agriculture, as large farms as possible – but then we no longer have backbones in the rural area. For not agriculture, but farmers with their families are the backbone to support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, to our demand with 50 000 € maximum funding limit. Perhaps I have a colleague. Right when he says that this is unenforceable. It is a positive demand from us, from the Freedom Party, but please think about which models there are to draw the caps, perhaps to degressiveize the promotions upwards, in order to be able to guarantee - and this is my great hope - the young farmers today that they can expect a certain amount of funding even in the next period from 2013. For, Mr Minister, you have just said: It's going to continue somehow, we don't know how yet, but it went on after 2007 too! – I believe that this is not an announcement that gives young people the guarantee that they know they can stay in agriculture and can expect a certain amount of income. That's why: Let us think about reducing the large incomes – 600 000, 700 000, 800 000 € – and trying to give smaller businesses real prospects and guarantees so that they can know that they can expect a size of 10 000, 15 000, 20 000 € in the future. Then, I think, we will be able to keep young people in agriculture and to really support and preserve the much famous backbone in the form of farmers and rural families.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43941	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e43964	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, farmers are the backbone of rural areas, farmers and farmers are essential. That is why we will have to do our best to support them in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Where's the grill? Why isn't the barbecue talking?]] I also say one more to criticise the agricultural policy, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sacher, Mr Linder. If we had not made such a good agricultural policy in recent years, half of the farmers who are here today would no longer be there. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Compare with the other countries in Europe! Bavaria is still a country most likely to meet us, but in Bavaria there are only half as many farmers as we do, surrounded by the area and the population. There are 80 000 farmers throughout Bavaria, there are 180 000 farmers in Austria. This shows that our policy, with which we have supported the small rural family farms, has also worked. And we want to do that in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To this end, it is necessary that we actually make provision in the budget to ensure that farmers are not disabled. Mr Linder, what would be a solution if I were to release everything in the favors of production and bind the miners up with any quotas? That would be completely reckless and counterproductive. I would only promote the favors accordingly. [[Abg. Linder: Don't tie! They're supposed to have a delivery right!]] I also believe that the agricultural budget for 2011, which the farmers can live with, has been partly reasonably successful. I would also like to point out that it is already important for us to take up social burdens. It is already a wormhead drop that the coalition partner is given thought to what is called food security contributions that farmers would have to deliver. Farmers provide food security with the good products they produce, and not with amounts they deposit in any fund or cash. I can also say that I am not pleased to think about an animal disease fund in this form. One can think about animal health funds, but not about how farmers should finance them. Animal health, disease control are the task of the federal government, and there the Federal Minister has to look where he gets the money, but not from the farmers and farmers. I would like to reject this very categorically. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] To sum up, I can see that the draft budget on agriculture is acceptable, and I would ask that this be agreed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44049	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44071	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I find it a little sad that the Federal President Grillitsch is not present at the agricultural debate. [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Nevertheless: This budget will ensure the continuity of financing for the agricultural sector. That's nice. However, the cuts in rural development must be considered critically. It is planned to save, in particular, where agricultural support is not pure, and so it affects all people in rural areas. It is positive that the Europe-renowned Federal Institute for Mining Questions will be preserved in its own right. Thank you very much, Minister Berlakovich. That was a wise decision. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This renowned Bundesanstalt has pioneered with an excellent study. It shows opportunities to better promote fairer, i.e. more easily after work and work difficulties. This could also help to preserve small-structured agriculture in Austria. Even Commissioner for Agriculture Cioloş, in the context of the discussion on CAP reform in 2013 and in the EU bodies, called for more support to be given to proof of job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing is stronger than an idea whose time has come – time for a fair distribution of agricultural support to farmers, time to support work and labour difficulties, and thus to promote the continuation of the farms. Our coalition partner did well to join the SPÖ for more justice in the agricultural sector, in the spirit of the vast majority of hardworking farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44125	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44146	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister Berlakovich, I have been experiencing your actions for two years now. So, actually, I need to improve: I've been experiencing your non-thin for more than two years. They're making themselves up again and again and telling us very well what you want to do for the environment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What have you done?]] Mr Molterer, if you address the fact that as an opposition politician you can contribute less to reasonable laws than a minister, then you are right. A minister has the responsibility, especially as an environmental minister, he has the responsibility to make proper environmental policy. If I look at the performance of Mr. Berlakovich, I have to say that nothing happens. [[Abg. Amon: How can you say that nothing happens!? Differentiate a little!]] We have a problem with the Kyoto target. We're miles away from the target. We are likely to have to pay up to €500 million, and the Minister for the Environment is here to calm down for all those who really are at the heart of environmental policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Minister for the Environment has always felt as if the ÖVP, controlled by the Energy Lobby, was an environmental minister who always spreads a good mood and always speaks of energy autarchy and of his great goal, and Kyoto is still reaching us. All these things we always hear from him, but nothing happens. There's nothing coming. Nor does this budget contain anything that will in any way bring us closer to this Kyoto target. There is also nothing in it that we can achieve an energy autarchy, Minister. Do you know what that means, “Energy Authority ”? This would mean that we need to save more than 90 percent of the oil because we cover only 7 percent of the consumption with the domestic oil we produce. This would mean that we have to save 80 percent of the gas we are currently importing, because we only produce 17 percent ourselves. That's Autarkie. That is, if you want to do that and save gas to 80 percent, I wonder why you're building new pipelines. Why Make You do? Why do you support pipeline projects, if you know exactly that in the future we will have to consume much less gas in order to achieve the Kyoto goals, even though we do not want to become energy-autarchy, which you always have in your mouth? Mr Minister, I would also ask you to take You are not so important when it comes to flying when it comes to being sensitive. See that you are bringing something forward in environmental policy! We would thank you much more than that you play the strong man here and try to deceive you about what the truth is. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The truth is: In these two years, they have virtually nothing to do with word aid. And if I look at the Federal Government's energy strategy, I can only say that there is, for example, inside: We want to save energy. – But where do I find that in the budget? Where do I see in the budget measures that help us exactly, Mr Minister? Can you show me that? You can't, because there's nothing. That is why we are all interested, Minister: Look at you for the next three years to go a little further, otherwise go into history as a minister – like all the ÖVP ministers who were at work before you – who also spoke the word of the Energy Lobby and did nothing else in the matter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We just have to take our own word. You said here today – I can quote it –: We need to do more in climate protection. You said that today. Yes, Mr. Minister, do it! Make more in climate protection and hear With this, when the opposition criticizes your performance here in the High House, to say, we criticize Austria. That's not true. We criticize your work, not Austria. You're not Austria, Minister! What we criticize is your work and not Austria. And that's why: Do something for this country, do something for environmental policy! Then we will also stop criticizing you. That's so simple! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this context, I now put forward a motion for a resolution so that you can also see that we not only speak but also have good proposals. Perhaps you'll take one or the other proposal, too. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Minister, if you already provide meticulous 100 million for thermal renovation, which is admittedly a good measure, then you can make a financing model, which will cost you no more than 100 million, but you can move over a billion. I think that's in all our interest. Second motion for a resolution: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Lugar, Mag. Widmann, colleagues in relation to standard consumption levy on electrical appliances The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is asked, in cooperation with the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, to introduce a standard consumption levy for electrical appliances, which must definitely be set up neutral in volume.” Mr. Minister, here you have a good proposal that you could implement, which includes that all electrical appliances that consume a lot of electricity should be taxed and those electrical appliances that consume little electricity should be relieved, so that even worse people can afford equipment that consume little energy. I believe that this is also in our all interest. We are not going to go in the direction of this, because it is supposed to be non-conventional, but rather we are heading in the direction that energy is being saved. And I would also like you, Mr Minister, to take such measures in the future, and also that you should take an initiative to do something to improve the climate balance in this country, to achieve the Kyoto objective and energy autarchy that you always wish for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44253	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44349	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44370	Mr President. Federal Minister! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to take up Mr Lugar's suggestion on thermal insulation and give him some examples because he says he sees and hears nothing. With regard to thermal insulation, it is clear and clear that each energy saved means a high level of economy, that saved energy is the most ecological form at all and also means the greatest use of resources. Saving energy, however, also means investing in the savings of pollutants over the period of use, is therefore highly positive. Heat insulation is good for the economy, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Heat insulation is good for Austrian jobs. [[Abg. Ing. Lugar: Who's fighting this?]] She creates and saves thousands of Green jobs. Heat insulation is valuable in terms of reducing import dependence. Heat insulation is valuable for the government budget in the form of increased tax revenue. Therefore, 100 million additional resources each year to make use of this possibility, and I believe that in future we need to pay much more attention to the fact that insulating substances also meet ecological criteria, that they are recyclable, that they are obtained from renewable raw materials and therefore carbon binding is given even during growth, the production phase. Mr Lugar, if you think that nothing is happening, I should like to draw your attention to the forest district, my home region, in the context of model regions in the field of renewable energy. They can be found in my home district in 14 out of 15 municipalities on biomass-based districts. My home community has already received the European Solar Prize in 1995. You can understand these new technologies in the truest sense of the word today. Come to us in the forest district to Großschönau and you can sample in passive houses. Highly esteemed Mr. Lugar, we are already using highly innovative insulations in this context today, for example produced by Waldland, highly innovative technologies by Longin in Dobersberg as part of passive house construction. We have excellent technologies. We have excellent companies. We have excellent employees, and we will continue to support them in the future. And addressed to Mr Brunner: Austria has an excellent agriculture minister and Austria has an excellent environmental minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44419	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Winter. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44440	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about the environment, where agriculture is taking place, but a few words to the organic farmers. I am glad that there is such a large number of organic farmers in Austria. I am a consumer exclusively of organic products, and I think we still need many organic farmers, because in the specialized shops, also in the second largest city in Austria, Austrian organic products are mostly defective and sold out. This should be an incentive. Now to the budget. If the mandates of SPÖ and ÖVP repeatedly claim that it is a socially balanced budget, I still have to insist strongly that it is a burden budget, a burden budget for families, commuters, children and so on. Unfortunately, they operate a waste disposal of those population groups that cannot resist it. Mr Minister, at a Question Time at the beginning of this summer, the term “ecologisation of the tax system” fell for the first time. At the time, I meant that the people stood with this expression or the technical concept of the hair to the mountains. You explained to me at the time, oh, that's actually just one thing of the explanation, they'll already understand. – But I have to say, unfortunately, that your explanation skills are really as bad as the survey results are at the moment. There are also studies that say that almost 60 percent of Austrians feel that this budget is not socially fair. It is positive to mention – and I would like to say this, very well – that thermal renovation seems to be quite simply a matter of course and that you are enormously committed to alternative energies and also promote them. Of course, this is an innovation boost for budgetary adjustment in the form of green jobs and much more. But you should also have told the population that this means that you have to tax other energy groups very well and tax more, I only mention the NoVA, the ticket charge, the Möst. As far as the air fare is concerned, you said last time in the committee, that is only true of the rich. I know thousands of people, but I don't know anyone who doesn't choose the plane sometime in his life, or again and again as a means of transport, whether it's near destinations or long-distance travel. At the most, I have to say, it is also true that this meets alternative groups and other associations. For example, we have received a letter from the Workers'-Samariter League, in which it states clearly and clearly: How am I supposed to be doing my services to the population, in view of the reduction in civil service charges, the planned amendment of the Civil Service Act and the increase in the duty to provide my services to the population? So I think that once again everything will be shaved over a comb, which is not particularly good. This is really a burden for the population. That is why winter, Podgorica and other Members have tabled the following motion for a resolution, on the grounds that energy prices continue to remain high, thereby increasing VAT and bringing revenue to the budget: [[Quoted print version removed]] My final sentence: Mr Minister, look at your Gender Budgeting chapter! Here you will see that we are women who are very appealing to alternative energies and energy savings. In this context, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you, however, to deal with this clientele, even if there are some difficulties in dealing with something ‘gentlemanlic’.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44517	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44581	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44602	Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister for the Environment. I would like to clarify something at the beginning of my speech. It is, I believe, not okay – and it is a pity that Mr Franz Eßljett is not in the hall – to question things that have already been agreed according to the government decision. This is the Animal Health Fund Act and the Health and Food Safety Contribution Act. That is to say, to question things here, where funding is thus denied, I do not think it is right. I just wanted to say this isn't okay. The topic of agriculture and the future of agriculture in Austria. Agriculture is certainly a matter for all of us, and it is also very important to us, because in the end consumers are the most important customers and buy our domestic products. Nevertheless, I constantly miss a little more willingness for changes in structures – whether this is the support system, whether it is a new regulation of unit values, or also a definition at the political level of how we stand for the establishment of animal factories. There have to be solutions and changes, because there are more and more common examples with which we simply cannot live. The example is the animal factory in Gralla, where 2 100 breeding sows and 50,000 piglets are to be given a new home, where an animal factory is to be built in the immediate vicinity of water protected areas, where the groundwater level is 1.20 meters and where there are also three drinking water wells, which provide more than one hundred thousand people with drinking water. We have already experienced in the South Styria that our groundwater has been contaminated by pollution. We do not want to have this again, and not at all, Mr President of the Federal Farmers' Party, if we know that we have overproduction of pigs, when we know that we have overproduction of manure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] In Austria we import two million pigs a year for slaughter. We slaughter 5.2 million pigs in Austria, but we only need 3.2 million pigs. We export two million pigs again. There must be someone to tell me where the mind is, what's done about it. If the communities in the South Styria are then sent 275 notices by the county headquarters that the water price is to be increased and no manure is to be exported in the winter months, then I really ask you where the reason is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I am really looking for your best support in the Galla problem. It is not about saying that we want to prevent this, but about where these animal factories are to be built in Austria. But do not ask in those areas where the supply of drinking water to the residential population would be at risk. We don't want to go through that again, as we do. it had already had to experience in the South Styria in 1990. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44666	Next speaker: Member of the jury. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44687	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! At the end of today's day and at the end of three days, we will again examine the chapter on agriculture. [[Call the ÖVP: Are you going home?]] There should be cause research on where farmers die, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, Mr Hörl, Mr Grillitsch, Mr Eßl. Where's the farmer's death coming from? You regret the farmer's death, the dying of the rural area, but what do you do about it! You will continue to be proposed in the framework of the European agricultural policy, where Europe will fail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This European economic policy and the consequences of this industrial agricultural policy are the reason why the rural population of this farmer dies at all. And if Mr Gaßner says, of course, the farmers are an important part of this rural area and ensure infrastructure, our food, the flourishing landscapes and, in the original sense, also stand for our Austrian identity, which is important for Austrian tourism, then we must also resist the fact that our Minister of Agriculture is already making progress on the next common agricultural policy, on the period from 2014 to 2020, when, as reported in the “Kärntner Bauer”, he finds more praise than a blame for the common agricultural policy, but which will have these effects. Mr Berlakovich, this will be the paint must test for you, whether you will be able to resist the very research ideas of the major countries of Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, if it is to say no more direct support for our agriculture. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Turn around, leave the wrong way of European economic policy, leave the wrong path of European agricultural policy! We are in a situation where our small businessmen die, we are in a situation where our farmers die, but you do not change your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44725	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44746	Mr President. Federal Minister! My respect, Minister of Life! 60 million € savings in your resort and no savings from the farmers, no savings from the farms. Urgently necessary, certainly. 14 000 € annual income, we have already heard this today. There's a need for compensation. It would, of course, be completely unfair if one were to save on the farmers. You deserve the utmost respect that you can save in your resort and make your contribution to this budget, but do not save with the farmers. [[Abg. Grosz: Could you speak freely, honourable Member, please not read?]] All of this, Mrs Brunner, in an intact environment with a great drinking water, also in the energy sector with great success. €50 million from your room for the promotion of thermal rehabilitation is also a great contribution to rural and economic areas. My absolute respect. I can also say that I think that the good cooperation of the two spokespersons Grillitsch and Gaßner contributed to the rejection of the AGES. From our group of highest respect. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Farmers and farmers, tourism and agriculture are partners. [[Abg. Grosz: Maybe you can talk free! Perhaps you'll say something about Mr. Minister's airport presence! Charles de Gaulle!]] Mr Grosz, I think that this partnership will also be lived for good reason. 126 million nights – in the largest market, in Tyrol, it is 43 million nights – and sales of 25.6 billion € in tourism are also a market for agricultural, i.e. agricultural products that we find on site. If we know today that 89 percent of this economic power of tourism comes from our country and only 11 percent are imported and 49 percent of it comes back directly from the villages, from the regions, then I think this is a great opportunity for our 187 000 Austrian farmers and farms. We, tourism and farmers, are a unit, we work together. I mention, for example, the miners in Ischgl who buy up the cattle of the area at higher prices and then market them in their own farms. We also make a contribution here. I would like to say something to you, Mr Grosz, with your constant calls: It will not help you if you take out from the depths of the Styrian fountain the big mouth frog and plant it into the ocean, its level remains the hole in which it lived. Good day!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44815	He didn't mean you, but he said, but if you feel affected. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: I will also declare this in the future, Mr President, especially if you are speaking.]] Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44853	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Eßl, I thought that's like tarocking, you can't buy courage. [[Abg. Grill: That's the way it is!]] But to make ourselves with such a courage here in order to claim that we are making a good agricultural policy, and that in the knowledge that in recent years hundreds of thousands of farmers have had to give up the farm, I have to say, even ends up with respect. Go here and say: We are making good agricultural policy, although hundreds of thousands of farmers have had to give up their farm, that is really brave. That's a little bit of respect for me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: You're a real objector!]] Mr. Federal Minister, we are coming to the environment. We have already discussed in the Committee the question of development in Germany as regards the extension of nuclear fuel life, and how the Republic of Austria is dealing with it. As a liberal, we have had to note that the Federal Government has fallen asleep in a winter sleep because it has not responded to this development. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you today if you can tell me the following: How many incidents have there been by German cars in recent years? – I don’t know if you can answer this question, whether you know this number. You probably don't know her. That's not a special evidence of poverty either, you don't have to know. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'll tell you: There were 127 incidents in Temelín and 1 273 in Germany that were reported – 1,273 incidents that could have seriously affected the safety, health of Austrian citizens, the population. And we here in Austria have probably not experienced anything about these incidents. So now these nuclear power stations, some of which date back to the 1970s, are being extended by 14 years. In Germany one argues that one says, well, at this time we are building with the money we consume through nuclear energy, at least the alternative energy to be pioneers and autonomous in 50 years. And instead of Austria being prepared to participate in this journey, this path will not be followed either. And we don't understand that. Because you do not complain here, despite the fact that Austrian interests have been severely affected – because the environmental impact assessment has not been made because EU law has been seriously threatened and cut down here – we will not see here, but will make a declaration of breach of the EU in January. We are of the opinion that if the Federal Government is already asleep here – and because we are always accused of not making any proposals or applications as an opposition – we will act ourselves and perceive the interests of the Austrian people in the EU, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing is also clear: If today the nuclear officer from Upper Austria approaches the parliamentarians because he no longer understands this nuclear policy of Austria, even condemns it and therefore asks Austrian parliamentarians – as an urgent call for help – to set up an investigation committee in this regard so as to examine why the interests of a former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Austria are as they are in relation to nuclear policy, why the interests of Austria are such that the Lord former Chancellor Gusenbauer is suddenly the consultant for the nuclear lobby, then this will already have his appropriate reason and background. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The Gusenbauer?]] – Mr Gusenbauer, of course. This is also mentioned in the paper, Mr Gaßner. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Yes?]] And one thing, because, as the Federal Minister, you have always refused to give us the exact figures, to what extent Austria's contributions to EURATOM are running: You will have the opportunity to provide your information. I announce here that on 28 May. The launch of a popular desire throughout Austria will start on February “Austria’s exit from the EURATOM Treaty”. The entire Freedom Club has signed this request, and I am proud to be able to say that it was so. We believe that this EURATOM Treaty only serves to support the interests of the nuclear lobby in Europe and in no way serves the safety and health of the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I'm looking for everyone here and today, starting at 28. On February of next year, go to their community and sign that this Parliament and this Federal Minister, who has so far stubbornly refused to provide the information we urgently need, will finally have to take account of and explain what they actually stand for.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44954	Mrs Binder-Maier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e44976	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much, Mr. Federal Minister! You answered my oral question very easily in writing. I have received your reply today – on the topic of consumer protection and on the issue of budgetary equipment. Thank you! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, my speech concerns my favorite subject, namely the conservation of our ecosystem in connection with beekeeping and honeybees. On the one hand, I would like to point out the legitimate criticism of Global 2000 that beekeeping continues to be used in the production of maize. Question to you, Minister: What to Remember Do you have to do this? There is an urgent need for action. On the other hand, I refer to an article in a newspaper that is about increasing funding for beekeepers within the European Union, from €26 million to €32 million. My question to you, Mr Federal Minister: What does it look like to get the Austrian beekeepers out of this funding pot? Because I am convinced that it is important and necessary for bee cultures to be maintained and promoted in Austria as well. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the overall chapter on agriculture. We Socialists and Democrats believe that fair distribution of funding and fair taxation of assets is necessary in order to implement the legitimately required redesign of the Austrian funding scene, and also that a kind of administrative reform would also be interesting among the institutions of agriculture. The objective must be that the small structures, the rural population and the small-structured farms, the farmers in Austria can survive in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45009	Mr Praßl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45030	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture is facing many challenges of tomorrow, whether economic, environmental or social. What does that mean? – The need for improvements in agriculture in terms of productivity, competitiveness and other conditions for the future. Agriculture offers more than just the production of food. It guarantees the survival of rural communities. If I use only the three districts of Feldbach, Fürstenfeld and Radkersburg as an example, then I have to say that there are 88 municipalities there, where there are excellent farms in all these 88 municipalities, where farmers do a lot and do a lot. They also protect the cultural appearance in agriculture. Why do I say that? – In these three districts with the 88 municipalities there are also many cyclists on the road each year, well over 100,000. It is quite easy to see that what agriculture offers is also the basis for the future, out of conviction. I have mentioned this several times in the congregations. We can only be glad to be a representative of agriculture in these areas. They improve the future and make it excellent. A challenge in the individual districts is also to provide young people with excellent training for agricultural work, whether they are farmers. These are thanks to God in all three districts, namely in the Fachhschule Hatzendorf, in Fürstenfeld and also in Radkersburg. Thank God there is a training that will guarantee the future of agriculture, and that young people, women and “dirndln” and men will also undergo this training – for the future of our agriculture. Don't say no, but say yes and let yourself be trained for the future years! Mr Federal Minister, I should also like to thank you for your commitment to Styria and for the field of Feldbach, Radkersburg and Fürstenfeld. And I would be glad if you could take the time to visit this area once and give us something for the future – a change, an improvement – that our women and men will then implement accordingly. Thank God we have. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45070	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45091	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! In the agricultural chapter, I dedicate myself to the topic of rural areas. The rural area, as we all know, is far more than just agriculture. We are all confronted with the fact that we in the rural area have to do something against emigration, not just against the emigration within the rural farms, but after the EU definition, it is regions with over 30 000 inhabitants who already belong to the rural area. In other words, infrastructure measures play an important role as well as the possibility of finding jobs outside agriculture. Tourism is an area that offers jobs to people in rural areas. We have already heard today that applications are being submitted to increase Austria's advertising. It has been quite a long effort by me to try to better limit the advertising within agriculture and the advertising of tourism. With the culinary model, this has also been partly successful. However, I would like us to address a wider room there. There is, for example, the promotion of holidays at the farm, which is also part of the EAFRD programme, as we can read. But there are many other essential points, such as the improvement of infrastructure, improved access to natural areas, which, I think, can also make better use of natural resources, which we are grateful to find in our home country. I would therefore like to see an even greater restriction, and I would also like to see greater use of the EAFRD funds, especially for rural infrastructure. Today, we all know – and I suppose that will be no different in the rural farms either – Internet Standard is like a driver's license, I say. Today, without the Internet, participation in many social areas is largely excluded. Therefore, I would also like to do more for broadband in these areas, namely for a high quality broadband and for high quality broadband development, for better cooperation between tourism and agriculture and for even greater cooperation with regard to advertising. [[Abg. Grill: fiberglass! That's where you need to talk to the Bures!]] Then, I think, we could work together to get more quality of life, in the sense of modern people's expectations, in rural areas. And then, together, we could try to create more opportunities through better jobs, especially for women in rural regions, because it is women who go to the centres because they see other opportunities there, because they see other perspectives, even in terms of independent life and independent life assurance. If we try to give similar opportunities to all people in rural areas, we will also be successful together in this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45128	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45155	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Gerald Grosz, unlike you, I think I understand a little bit about agriculture. Above all, I know the manual work in agriculture and I know what it is like to live by agriculture and not play theatre in Parliament as you do. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The rural families and the agricultural sector have to contribute to the savings measures in the budget as much as many other areas. In the end, the measures will be felt once and for all. It should be seen as positive that the range of compensation payments did not need to be shortened. This means that the funds of the European Union, the Federal Government and the Länder will be available to the rural families in the next few years. These compensatory payments are, for example, a payment of benefits under the environmental programme. There are no cost-effective prices for farmers in many production sectors. Public compensation is therefore necessary income for farmers' families on the one hand and support for low consumer prices on the other. Those who believe that a rural agriculture, which at the same time guarantees a lot of services for society – such as healthy food, well-kept cultural landscape and so on – can do without public resources, who believes that this is going to live far away from any reality. We would like to see higher prices for farmers, but they are not possible in many areas at the moment. And there is no way to survive without the appropriate remuneration and without compensation for climatic and structural disadvantages. Public funds for agriculture are largely handled through the agricultural market in Austria. There is no other organization in Austria, which is being tested as much as the agricultural market Austria. The administrative burden is very low in relation to turnover. And through the eAMA platform, any farmer can also bring himself into the administration and support it. The need for monitoring is beyond discussion. The Federal Minister Berlakovich and his team are working intensively to bring together controls and even more efficient design. With regard to the problem of those around 4,000 farms, rural families who receive their public funds only in February 2011, rather than a few weeks ago, I would ask that they be involved at European level. With good will, there may also be appropriate solutions. The rural families already have a lot of conditions to consider. For the future we need discharges and not more requirements in the bureaucracy or production. This applies to the European level as well as to the Austrian level. And I am thinking here of some parties, especially the Greens and some ladies and gentlemen in the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The rural families do much and are a pillar in rural areas. Let us support them together with reasonable framework conditions! Federal Minister Berlakovich and his work are guarantees of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45207	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45228	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is hardly any policy area where it is so easy to achieve that, if you do well, money used once has a very high positive and meaningful multiple use, as is the case with environmental policy. And even if it's been said a few times today: Climate protection is, I think, an area where it becomes particularly clear where you can see it very well. Domestic climate protection measures help, on the one hand, if they are truly sustainable and consistent and are set for a very long time to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And with this, Austria can also make an international contribution to climate policy. If you look at what climate change measures can do, for example, in the field of business – if you calculate how much they cost and how little funding they cost on lifetime – how much greenhouse gases are saved, then, you have to say, is really a great effect, the great results are. And that is certainly much, much more sensible than buying certificates, which then really pump after some time, are no longer there and just bring with it a mathematical improvement of the climate, but not necessarily a real one. Similarly, changing our economy to low-carbon economy is a useful model, because it helps to become really self-sufficient and self-sufficient, but at the same time, of course, operating costs are also reduced if the measures are appropriate. Also, it is possible to save operating costs with greenhouse gas reduction measures, with climate protection measures in residential construction, which has a wide variety of effects at all, because not only the operating costs, as mentioned above, are falling, but at the same time also very often the quality of life is increasing. Just remember that there are still a lot of substandard apartments where people who still have to go with the oil can every few days to heat the old oil oven. If you switch there, switch to renewable raw materials, to fuel-house gas sources, then this is a profit not only for the environment, but also, of course, for the people who then have nothing to drag and have a completely different quality of life. Similarly, it makes sense to promote, for example, actions in which old electrical appliances, often real electricity eaters, are exchanged. It's got a lot of time ago. Great action of the city of Vienna, where all social passers-ins had the opportunity to buy 50 € a very new, very energy efficient refrigerator. The old refrigerator was transported and also disposed of professionally. These are things that amortize very quickly, which really help people to save costs, and also those who cannot afford to live more climate-sensitively. Also, the exchange of windows, the dams of facades, of top floor coverings et cetera are measures that usually amortize very quickly and help to improve the quality of life. But the same is also important for advice, which often brings great results with very simple behavioural changes such as ventilation or other heat regulation. The 100 million €, which are now invested in thermal renovation every year – 50 million in businesses, 50 million in private housing – are very welcome. This is a very important measure against “energy poverty”, especially the €50 million in the private sector. This is active climate policy, which also has an example effect on other areas. The WIFO expects us to double-return an invested euro for the state by double-returning. Domestic climate measures are effective for many years and can also be expected after 2013, after the end of the Kyoto period. This brings jobs, which brings value added. I think this is a very good example, which shows how money can be invested very meaningfully. Many new framework conditions are still necessary in order to achieve a truly coherent climate policy, such as an energy efficiency law, the donation of the management development law, more funds for domestic environmental support to reduce the backpack, and an ecological tax model. But politics is a long process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45286	Next speaker: Mr Peter Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45311	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are used to playing some polemics in the agricultural debates, but the accusation or submission of Mr Pirklhuber, who has said that he believes that farmers who are politically active are consciously controlled by AMA, is already heading towards fairy tale hours. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Oh, otherwise not?- Oh, my God!]] When I was checked a few weeks ago, I could have asked the controller if he was coming because I was sitting in the National Council. So this accusation is a little far-reaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the real topic: The agricultural sector also contributes to fiscal consolidation, and this is not so insignificant. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for setting the priorities of savings in such a way that the compensatory payments that come directly to the farmers can reach the fullest level in the next few years. This is important for the security of planning, which is agricultural policy with the quality of hands, especially for the young people who work in agriculture and want to earn their income in the future. The path towards ecologizing the tax system is a good way, it is an important step in the right direction, is connected there and there with pain, also in agriculture. It is an mistaken belief if one claims that the increase in the EPA does not affect agriculture. There are some press releases that support this argument. Mr Kogler also said in his marathon speech: Even the farmers, who with their large tractors through the area “brain” – literally – have been spared from the increase of the EAST. Mr Kogler must also explain to me what he meant by ‘brakes’! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I know that one can plow with tractors, mowing, but for what “brakes” means, he is certainly still guilty of an explanation. The fact is that there has always been a refund for agricultural diesel, and this is covered with €50 million. These €50 million were almost exhausted every year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And if there is an increase, then this increase is going through with the farmers to the fullest. This is therefore a real contribution to budget recovery. For example, there is no cover for the ÖBB in the reimbursement. Pendlers are rewarded with an increase in the flat rate. Transport companies will receive additional support. In Germany, due to the difficult income conditions for agriculture, agricultural diesel compensation has been increased. It would also have been appropriate for us to achieve something in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45366	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45388	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a housing speaker of my group, I would of course also like to focus briefly on the living and building materials in the environmental budget. But since the economic sector is also concerned, of course my remarks also apply to this area. My colleague Bayr and others have already mentioned this, the focus is on thermal rehabilitation. The Federal Government is pleased to have planned the funding for four years in this area. 100 million € are available this year. The benefits have been mentioned by Mr Bayr. In any case, however, it would be necessary to discuss the arrangements underlying this rehabilitation check. In this context, it is very interesting for me that the two relevant departments have different opinions. The Minister for the Environment assumes that this check is a complement to the existing housing promotion of the countries. However, the Minister for Economic Affairs sees it as an independent means of support. In contrast to the last year's funding model, other stakeholders, for example in multi-storey housing, are also to be reached. We support this accusation by the Minister for Economic Affairs and believe that not only the multi-story housing should benefit from this support, but that district heating connections should also be promoted. Furthermore, not only will one-off payments be made, but credit variants will also be developed here. The advantage of this funding model when more recipients are reached is obvious: It is used socially and more frequently. And, of course, this will also trigger a higher volume of investment. I would also like to raise another point that is very important to me, because the highest rates of rehabilitation in this area have been the common people for years. In my view, therefore, it is useful that this support for thermal renovation should be extended not only to the private sector and the commercial sector but also to the non-profit sector, i.e. to cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45433	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45454	Madam President. Federal Minister! There are already obscene discussions that are sometimes held there: The liberals, otherwise hostile to the EU, discover themselves there in nuclear policy when it comes to flattering, again Brussels. The Greens have forgotten that they ruled in Germany that they would have had it in their hands there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You have forgotten who reversed the atomic excretion!]] No, no, you forgot it in Germany. [[Abg. Brosz: What have we forgotten?]] We therefore do not want this model in Austria at all. But let us come to real politics, to the environmental policy in Austria, which is being carried out very successfully by this Federal Government. The thermal rehabilitation has already been addressed: 100 million € are made available every year. And this is not only a federal task, but – let us look at the countries – only in Lower Austria, for example, 10,000 housing units were remodeled due to the thermal renovation in the energy sector. And that's good. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: One percent Rehabilitation Rate!]] –Austria, one percent, Mrs Moser, look at the federal states! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's data stand!]] And then the communities come to it. There are communities that are role models that have an ecological housing promotion, like my community. We not only promote thermal renovation, we also promote measures on photovoltaics, solar energy and so on. This is practice-based environmental policy! Mrs Moser, you're always talking about it, but you can't really read anything from practice. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I couldn't read anything yet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The further measures are known: € 400 million through the greening of the tax system and € 120 million by the climate:active programme, 300 measures implemented in the coming years to achieve those objectives that we have set ourselves environmental policy. They have mentioned that only one percent of us have actually rehabilitated in the context of thermal rehabilitation. Yes, the target by 2020 is 3 percent – I hope we will achieve it. We will also achieve the objective set by the Federal Minister, namely, an energy self-sufficient Austria as a long-distance goal. We already have 37 regions that are very involved in rural areas, perhaps also in Burgenland, Mrs Colleague there behind. These are, in fact, those measures promoted and implemented by the Federal Government. Their political contributions are actually not realistic, but very, very far away, I would ask for more materiality. It's not enough if you just bring the standard rate that we deserved a better Bun of the Minister. We would often have deserved a better opposition too!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45562	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45584	Thank you, Mr President. Estimated Minister for the Environment! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said a lot in the last three days, but one thing I would like to say in particular: In view of the difficult economic situation, there is a savings budget to which all sectors have to contribute, including the environmental sector, which contributes equally to consolidation. I would like to address two specific areas: Investments that are important, especially at this time, and painful measures. The first area is, for example, thermal renovation, which is an important and successful model and was also in the past. We discussed already in the Committee in June how valuable this investment was. There were effects for the local and regional economy, for the population, for the workers. Thus, we have launched a total of 14,400 private projects with a total investment volume of approximately €500 million, around 61 million funding. That means, for one of us invested, we got 8 € back. In addition, we have carried out approximately 530 renovation projects from companies, investment volume around 90 million; these have been funded by 18 million, which results in a factor of 1 : 5. That's what we've caused here. In 2011 – that has already been said – 100 million are planned for this area. This is important to have a positive impact on the environmental awareness of our population. The distribution key should, I believe, be about 70 : 30 for private households. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the 2012 budget path, it is important to continue to provide for these €100 million per year. I support the efforts that this pot will also be opened for the municipalities in 2012 to assist the communities in the thermal renovation of the municipal buildings. Secondly, the urban water industry, an area in which a very large sum is saved. We have reduced the total budget from 630 million to 355 million in 2011, from 180 million to 130 million in 2011, and there will be no budget for this from 2013 onwards. However, as far as wastewater is concerned, there are already 92 percent of connections. This is important, but the treatment plants and the wastewater lines et cetera must be extended and maintained in the future. That is why the communities in particular need more money. All the parties represented here in plenary also know – in particular the mayors in their ranks – how tense the financial situation of the municipalities is. It is therefore necessary to make available budget resources in this area. Finally, I would like to ask for the following: Communities should be given the role of parties in the context of the financial compensation so that they will have more money at their disposal in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45632	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45653	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The past few years, especially in the last two years, have been very difficult for all, especially for the peasant families. No professional group had to accept such high income losses as the farmers, namely, a minus of 28 percent. I also note: Nevertheless, discussions were held here in this House and also publicly on the back of the farmers when it came to food prices or political demands. There have been envy discussions that have been held in such a crisis phase, I think, quite simply no place. In the end, it is about enabling farmers to produce safe food, ladies and gentlemen, what you want. Food safety and food sovereignty will also be the focus of the next programme period in the European Union, which we must be aware of. To ensure food sovereignty and food safety, to safeguard nationally, but also at European level, will be an essential priority and also a perspective for our agriculture, for farmers. We must also answer the question politically, quite openly: What form of agriculture do we want? We know what form we want. We want this agricultural form, this comprehensible form, this transparent form, this eco-friendly form, this eco-logistic form and no industrialized form, in which genetic engineering, hormones, slave labour are allowed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is exactly the central challenge, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing. And that is why I say here today, Mr Federal Minister, that a great budget at a difficult time when it was about saving not with farmers, but with the administration, control and bureaucracy. This has been excellently successful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And for this I also say a warm thanks to our Federal Minister Nikolaus Berlakovich in the name of all Austrian farmers. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] The opposition is here and criticised, and we are different from the ÖVP, we have never promised the farmers anything that we could not keep. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] We have always pursued reality-related policies, ladies and gentlemen. You promised the blue from the sky! The FPÖ has told the farmers when they join the EU: You don't have to try! And many in Carinthia didn't do that either. And do you know what the effect was? – That these farmers had been excluded from all programmes for five years! This is a irrational policy, ladies and gentlemen. This distinguishes us, because the farmers' association wants to help farmers, even in the interests of consumers, to provide them with safe, reliable, accessible programmes. [[Abg. Grosz: Do you believe all that you say?]] [[Abg. Singer: fairytale stund’ from the Farmers' Federation!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, the party of the big lip, we know what we are doing, unlike many others who are here today. [[Abg. Grosz: Tell us something about the Minister of Agriculture's travel policy!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45757	Mr Huber spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions: first of all, the corrective situation to be corrected, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45787	Madam President. I know the rules. Mr Grillitsch has just said that only in terms of administration will it be saved and not in the case of farmers. [[Abg. Grill: Where then? Where then?]] – Please, learn to read and read according to your needs! [[Call:And capture]] The budget says: By 2014, €156 million will be saved in grants and €24 million in administration.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45832	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45853	Madam President. Minister! High house! In November of this year, the environmental status report SOER, which presents Austria to and for itself a not so bad witness, was presented, but also a report, as I think, that it is critical to see, if one also considers the results of the World Climate Summit in Cancun, where Austria from 57 countries is only 40. The place is arranged. I am well aware of it and I am aware that climate change measures require high levels of investment. And I am also aware that the planned domestic investment for climate change in 2011 could be much higher. However, I still think it is positive that Minister Berlakovich is committed to climate protection, and that he confirmed this in the daily newspaper “ukonews” yesterday, saying that despite Sparbudget, he succeeded in maintaining the 2010 funding of the climate fund for the climate fund amounting to €75 million without cuts for 2011, and that there are no reductions in climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] . Mr Minister, we will very well measure you by your words. With regard to climate protection, I find it extremely important and also right that not only the industrialized countries, but also the developing countries, will be controlled in the future, because only the industrialized countries with severe restrictions and high climate protection costs will certainly not lead to the desired climate target. I would like to give you an example: Companies that are not subject to climate change can emit as much CO2 as they consider necessary, and have to pay nothing or almost nothing for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner]] This means, in turn, that energy-intensive plants move their sites to these countries and then even emit more climate-damaging exhausts than before. Our domestic investments in climate protection must therefore be made especially in renewable energy, in the modernisation of infrastructure and also in efficient environmental technologies. But at the same time – and this is important to me – our industry must also be encouraged, and I come from the Leoben district, such as the VA Erzberg, which unfortunately met the limits of its CO2 optimization for technological reasons. Our objective must be to create an environment worthy of life and experience through ecological measures that can be compatible with economic measures and to evaluate our investments accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45910	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45932	Madam President. Minister! The budget consolidation is partly reflected in the environmental budget, especially in the case of a lower budget in the area of old load rehabilitation and a lower commitment framework in the urban water sector. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A functioning water supply and wastewater disposal is actually almost a matter of course in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] The funding instrument of the urban water industry has also been well established for decades. But now we also know that most of the investments in the area of urban water management are from the communities that need to expand, renovate or expand existing networks accordingly by means of additional construction measures. Over 90 percent of the households in Austria are connected to canalization. We in Burgenland are progressing with a good example: Over 98 percent of households are connected to sewerage. [[Abg. Pendl: Sensational!]] This, of course, is also a merit of the current Environment Minister in his former role as the responsible Council of State in the Burgenland. – Thank you very much, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) However, the strained financial situation of many municipalities has also contributed to the need to postpone renovations and originally planned construction projects in the public waste water treatment and supply area. In view of the reduction in the commitment framework of this budget approach from € 180 million to € 130 million, we will therefore have to make sure that funding is available from 2013 onwards and beyond. But it is important, in my opinion, that the percentage of support is not reduced, but remains the same. A comment on the disaster fund: In my opinion, these funds must be paid quickly, within a year, to the injured. Here's something positive: Financial resources for the disaster fund in 2011 were even increased by almost €25 million. On the keyword of clean water there is still a fundamental current comment on industrial mass animal husbandry: We know that at the Burgenland-Germany-Austrian border, pig farmers are always trying to settle, directly in the groundwater area of the Neufeld wells, which are of central importance for the drinking water supply of the whole of Northern Burgenland – almost 200 000 people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That means, of course, we want the corresponding quality of groundwater to continue to exist. – There are similar problem zones in Styria, which have already been addressed by colleagues Muchitsch today. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is difficult to allow such projects of industrial agriculture to be allowed in drinking water sensitive regions, because increasing the burden on groundwater with antibiotics and pesticides also contributes to increased nitrate pollution. I would just like to point out that the nitrate load limit is 50 milligrams per litre. However, the water supply association Northern Burgenland in the catchment area of the Neufeld wells was already measured by probes values of say and write 170 milligrams per litre. I'm looking for You, therefore, Minister for the Environment, will also have to give this problem greater importance in future. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:..., you know that very well!]] Finally, Mr. Minister: You also know the planned project of the residual material dump in Neudorf near Parndorf. In this regard, you have promised, in an answer to a request for a request, that you will take seriously the concerns and needs of the population, the municipalities, the citizens' initiatives in the region accordingly. I would therefore ask you, as a decision-maker, to do everything within the framework of legal possibilities, so that these waste material dumps may not be realized in the planned form, and thank me in the sense of all those concerned. I hope you, as a Burgenlander, have a heart for the Burgenland.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e45999	Now comes Mr Mag. That's right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46021	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I can and also of our group can sign a great deal of what you, Mr Minister, have said here and in the Committee, for example in relation to climate protection. Climate protection is not shortened, and I am very pleased. Where shortened, this happens very moderate or reasonable. For example, the reductions in urban water management in view of the fact that funding has not been exhausted in 2009 are acceptable and acceptable. What else to sign? – Austria is nuclear power plant-free, free from genetic engineering, waste management is in order; the lakes – in particular I can say as a Tyrolean – have excellent quality. So we're not as bad as the opposition means. The opposition simply does not want to be true in this respect, I believe. However, I would like to make a comment on the overall budget – I did not have the opportunity to say something about the overall budget. I may perhaps bring a quote from the head of the country of Tyrol Eduard Wallnöfer, who once said that the ÖVP is the piano on which the peasantry plays. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] This is a very nice statement, which also explains to me why we have such great problems, so that we do not realize in the agricultural promotion that large-scale owners or foundations such as the Stiftung Principality Liechtenstein, for example, or industrial companies such as the company Rauch, are €9.5 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: More!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Do you want the company to move the production abroad?]] [[Abg. Hornek: You can explain this... the company Rauch!]] This would be very good for the overall budget. The rural area has already been strongly brought to the attention of our mandates today, it is also very much at my heart as the mayor of a region in the Unterinntal. With us, rural areas are becoming increasingly thinned. What is also a major concern to me is the production of energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] And if I look in the direction of Greens – even Mrs Klubobmann is now there, which I am very pleased with – there is an appeal from me as a Tyrolean MP, but he applies to Austria as a whole, the following: Energy generation by hydropower, which is really a big concern to me, and I would like the greens to put a little more heart in it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We also have: Small hydropower plants!]] The hydropower is an alternative energy and should be more supported by you! And I can also take the floor for the farmers in this regard. Farmers could become the oil sheikhs of Central Europe, including in Austria. If we were to expand solar energy even more, then of course this would also be double useful for the promotions. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But the word doesn't fit! These are Solar Sheikhs, not Oil Sheikhs!]] To become oil sheikh, that would be a challenge for agriculture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46128	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46150	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister! Dear colleague Auer! I think we should agree on “solar sheikhs ” and not on oil sheikhs. [[Abg. Pendl: Solarscheichs!]] I'm sure there's something common here. Mr Minister, it is really very exciting at an objective level with you. Let me just mention the following: You have also informed us today, and we know this from the discussions in the committees, for example in the Committee on Agriculture - I would like to stress the bow a little further: Agriculture and the environment – that at EU level, which is of course budget-relevant, you have presented a proposal to set the ceiling to €800 000, fishermen: € 300 000, average size: 20 000 €. – Are You really are the agent of the Grand-Agrarians, Mr. Environment Minister, Mr. Agriculture Minister? – This conclusion is pressing in the right direction. Second fact: We now have in the budget the reduction of the funding for organic farming, the funds will be reduced from € 750 000 to € 700 000. They always advocate small-scale agriculture or rural development. Especially organic farming is very important for your next goal, namely climate protection, and yet you go down there with the promotions. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: On average, organic farming is larger than conventional! Bio-agriculture is larger than conventional!]] I think he's bigger than conventional, but he needs to be promoted! He has some disadvantages over the conventional: He is more labor-intensive and uses less chemistry, which brings us a lot of environmental policy again. Next fact: Mr Grillitsch has a big deal here, I believe that the ÖVP is holding everything that has been promised. . I have here a document which promises farmers, there are a total of 4,500, that the AMA, which is EU funds, will be paid out before Christmas. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] It's not going to happen. In the letter, please read: End of April! They set up the AMA. They have set up the AMA as an interface, so to speak, which is also driving forward financial operations. And now?– The AMA does not pay and says the control data is not processed. That is the task of the AMA, and you simply abandon the farmers! That is really – apologise to the agricultural expression – to the farmers a pigry, a true pigry! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, Mr Pirklhuber has repeatedly proposed and submitted to you a request on this matter, but you do not seem to mind Christmas. Organic agriculture has the great advantage that it will also lessen the burden on groundwater, so I come to the curve between agriculture and the environment, say nitrates, atrazin values. – I thank my predecessor for directing your attention to this issue. We still have old loads, and I want to know when we are finally moving this forward. So I'm on the next keyword, completely factual: Minister! It's also about rehabilitating old loads. They have virtually abolished the commitment of the funds to the old-age recovery. Now you can do other things with the money, of course, but what remains and lies long ago are the old loads. We do not want a permanent problem with old loads, we finally want a security and, so to speak, a rehabilitation. Just think of the old slags at Wiener Neustadt – a problem that is practically in front of the door, and it belongs to worked on it! The next old-age problem in Parliament: the anti-CFC policy. Minister! We've heard from you more often now: Although you are trying, just don't bring anything further, and that you finally stand up for the EURATOM exit, especially as an environmental minister, I haven't heard that yet. - Maybe there's still a chance today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Next Tag: Financing Energy Strategy. This one would have to be very close to your heart. I do not know if your budget has anything to do with this. Next Topic: Eco electricity law. – Although it does not directly address you, only do you verbally act for it. There's nothing going on. The next key word – which is most likely to be yours – is the financing of food control, the AGES. I have already pointed out, I believe, that this has been almost ten years ago, that the breakdown of the AGES, the food control, brings financial problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And what do we have now? – We now have the financial problems! There, too, in the direction, is more budgeted, especially for consumers and with regard to healthy nutrition. The last keyword – addressed by many colleagues – is thermal renovation. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] Yes, 50 million € from you, 50 million € from your colleague Mitterlehner are okay, only we need the triple! I am glad to hear from the SPÖ several times – from colleague Becher, colleague Bayr –: Yes, thermal renovation is also a social project. – We said that ten years ago! I am glad that I now finally hear this from the side as well as partly from ÖVP side! Just, what's going to be done again? – There is a sumptuous 100 million €, which primarily benefits the homes, and therefore we also need a legal improvement for the possibility to clean up thermally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In the rental law there is much possible, just do it at last! We need a building committee that accepts this problem and we very much invite you to do so, Minister. Last word, last fact: I would have been very pleased, Minister, if you were not abroad Austria would have made bad comments with your comments at the airport in France. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Go!]] These statements and these – how to say? – Threats were neither Austrian nor ministerial. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46263	There are no more words available to me. This is why these topics are being dealt with. [[15:56:08]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements as well as text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46339	We shall now proceed to the negotiation of heading 5, cash and interest rates. The first is Mr Grastaur's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46364	Madam President. Minister! Nothing against the Environment Minister, but I would have expected that at the financial points, someone would be here from the financial administration or from the financial office. [[Abg. Jacob Auer: He is right! Wherever he's right, he's right!]] Unfortunately, it is not God's, but that speaks volumes. First point: There are great uncertainties about the offsetting of the new mineral oil tax. The operators of the gas stations do not know when to raise the prices, namely at night of 31. ==References== January 2011 or, as the Minister of Economic Affairs requires, lunch only. – I think there is a lot to be clear, and this indicates that something has been done in the law enforcement. Second point: I put forward a motion for a resolution by Mrs Grastaur, Mr Themessl and other Members. [[Quoted print version removed]] We are dealing with a whole series of proposals on how to make a more economical approach to administration and bureaucracy. These are proposals on how to deal with taxes and taxes in order to improve the situation. – So much for this because the government parties always keep us from making proposals. Here too are many of them again. The third point concerns the budget itself: It is not unknown that the state finances look pretty upset. The reason for this is years of deficits that we have frozen, i.e. expenditure has been much higher than revenue. Miss economy and inability have joined in, and ultimately the financial and economic crisis has washed a further minimum of €30 billion into state finances. Interests eat us up, ladies and gentlemen! We charge on interest services of €11 billion per year. Finally, there is no free resources available for future investments. For example, if the universities now say: We need €300 million for various investments!, this can only be financed through new debts. How do you get out of this vicious circle? . I say that only through a national end to everyone's shoulders can the state finances be put in order. Instead of further polemics and further criticism, I will now make a proposal on how to address things, how to do this to a merchant: The goal should be to get down to the 60-percent mesh limit in five years with debt. That is to say, we would have to reduce the debt by about €30 billion, so that interest services do not rise to €11 billion per year, but rather make a bet with only around 6 billion. Now there are a few figures, and I ask Mr Krainer to write along; I will speak slowly. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: It's in the record anyway!]] – Yes, that’s right, but he would have to look at it, of course. The following options are available to meet these 30 billion savings potential: The reduction of subsidies could amount to 5 billion in the medium term, the health reform could bring 2.8 billion, the administrative reform of 2.5 billion, and in the social and pension sectors about €400 million would be possible: 10.7 billion. The new taxes you have decided to bring 2.4 billion. In order to really achieve a reasonable result, the state would have to reduce its shares in the ÖMV, Telekom and the Post to 25 percent, with the energy suppliers to 50 percent plus one voice and with the BIG and the Federal Forests to 75 percent. That means that there are another 8 billion sleepers. The figures are not from me, but from the Wifo, from the Chamber of Commerce and the Court of Auditors, but this would be a way of reducing the interest rate burden. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I expect that over the next five years, 5 billion will come back from the participation capital we have borrowed from the banks. I expect the good economy, which has already begun, to sink 1.5 billion per year into the state funds, which means an additional €7.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, in total, it would be possible to raise the savings potential to €33.6 billion, which would mean: better conditions, less debt. There are reserves available. They recall the issue of combating undeclared work; 22 billion, for which there are no taxes. The introduction of tax debt would bring 6 billion, the introduction of territorial health debt 1 billion, one would have to fight the inability, for example at AUA, ÖBB, Skylink and so on – this will all come back – and it would also be possible to bring up a medium-term new tax system, for example, reverse charge instead of current sales tax. [[Abg. Krainer: But how is AUA?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you just have to want it! The conclave that Mr Pröll wanted to convene would be urgently necessary. It must be called immediately! I think any reasonable Austrian who has something to say would have to decide responsibly in all these things and decide in favour of the population. Only this would be the case, because you have to know that there is a much greater threat that we cannot deal with here in our own country – what I have just explained –: the threat to the euro. We don't know what happens when things get in the air. Above all, Austria must, when it is ready, be sufficiently stable in order to be able to address this threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46450	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46554	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46575	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The last day of a budget debate, chapter finance, traditionally also offers the opportunity to take a little account of the parliamentary budget debate. I have noticed three things in this budget debate that are characteristic. First: There is no alternative to saving, there is no alternative to bridging debt. This was confirmed to us on the first day in the budget hearing by all the experts. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes! Yes!]] The illusion, Mr President, that states can spend more on a permanent basis than they are taking, has been put out of place – also in the context of the financial crisis. We are currently experiencing what happens to countries that do not have their state finances in order. – They become the ball of the financial markets. We, ladies and gentlemen, never want others – the EU or the Monetary Fund – to dictate what we have to do so that we can get money. We will never get into this situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Second point: I have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that there is also a second illusion, namely the illusion that there can be a savings package that nobody feels. - An illusion! The Minister of Finance has always said that everyone will have to make his contribution – everyone according to their performance. That's exactly what happened. This recognition is also a rejection to all those who believe with a wealth tax, with a wealth tax, with a foundation tax, with a corporate tax one can reorganise a budget. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is not possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: A biterl but already!]] To the companies, and I am now speaking to my colleagues from the SPÖ: They celebrate in January “100 Years Bruno Kreisky”. [[Abg. Riepl: Right!]] He was the first – and he would turn around in the grave today – who really brought companies to Austria, with lock offers even, keyword General Motors. Bruno Kreisky did that, and that was right. He has precisely recognized: The backbone of the economy is the large number of our small and medium-sized enterprises, but also corporations that need many small suppliers are important for this country. He would turn around in the grave today if he could hear how negative you talk about corporations, ladies and gentlemen, because they also secure jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: There are companies that pay no taxes at all!]] Thirdly, this has proved to be true, and all experts have also confirmed this: It was right to adopt offensive measures despite a savings budget, offensive measures in the field of education, universities, research, thermal insulation. That too is a very balanced concept, as I believe. I may mention perhaps the most powerful newspaper in our country, which wrote in response to the savings package – Claus Pandi was – that this is actually a very harmless package in Europe. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! You have to look beyond the edge of the plate and compare what savings concepts other countries make. We don't reduce pensions, we don't cut wages and salaries. We are looking for measures for the labour market, we are doing everything we can to keep our country at its best. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance, Mr Lopatka, on the fact that the renowned rating agency Standard & Poor’s Austria has recently confirmed the Triple A. Triple A means: world's best credit. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a result of a sound financial and budgetary policy, for which our Minister for Finance, for which our Federal Government stands. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46670	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. You wish for the entire speaking time, I can read from the list of speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46691	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I believe that the Minister for the Environment has been sitting on the government bank only for so long, so that it becomes clear on the occasion of the debate on the financial chapter that a little easier work could actually be done in this area would be better saved on the expenditure side. The Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in any case in favour of a principle of government: to resort mercilessly to the tax bill in order to finance government insanity; to refuse any discussion, but to advertise, to advertise, to advertise; and to advertise where, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out, there is nothing more to advertise. Campaigns have been launched, for example, for the use of energy funding at a time when the promoters were already empty. This is pure provocation, if you want to do so; just for propaganda purposes, pay the face of the Minister for the Environment for ads – and the taxpayers. That's not how it goes. I am going to make this point because we are now going to look closely at the conclusion that the attempt is being made – by the way, even more so, by the government partner, by the SPÖ – to buy opinion in this country. It can't go on like this. From my point of view, the Court of Auditors' directives must be followed at all, or at all events should be passed, in principle, on a ban against this type of government advertising and only in exceptional cases, i.e. only where an urgent need for information prevails, to satisfy this, to switch only if it really is about something, such as in the area of pandemic prevention, or the devil knows where it is useful to inform quite quickly broad population groups, which then also have something of it. Thus, we have not only saved a few million, but above all also gained credibility. But that's gonna be a long way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us turn to the narrower core of the financial chapter under negotiation. Mr President, if you are boldly complaining about the relationship between financial markets and states, you will have to remember that, after a lot of financial speculation has gone wrong in the no doubt private sector, I am surprised and mingled with the fact that there has been, so to speak, a serial configuration of deliberately lazy credit chains in the U.S., one of these financial crises alone has not triggered this financial crisis. In any case, deregulation of financial markets has also been an essential prerequisite, and it has also been heard that these bubble formations are possible at this speed and size, because right-wing tax havens have been interconnected throughout the carousel, where in part of the second I know how many billions can be moved around the globe. All of this has led to the fact that the titles that are being traded have been up to a hundred times higher than what the global real economy would have needed in these, so to speak, time units used for comparison. That means at least – you can now argue ideologically, what is really causal and what is less causal, but that does not lead, I believe, to the goal – and this can already be noted that there have been massive failures, collapses, misbehaviors, miscontrols in the private sector in the market, because an unregulated market often does not lead to the optimum, but in the end it tricks itself. It was not in vain that all the Heads of Government, including and especially the capitalist countries, stood up immediately after the crisis and said: Yeah, now we have to intervene, now we have to do something. So there is already a failure in this area. But the whole thing alive or saved, in the end, the states, the taxpayers, so to speak, also organized through state-trading. Have banks or financial jugglers saved the banks now, or were we – as you always rightly emphasize yourself at this point – overnight, but with the capital and with the liability of taxpayers? – The banks did not save the banks. The banks themselves have starved themselves on each side. That is why we had to intervene: because one bank no longer trusted the other and the liquidity is dried out. That was the cause. The state had to intervene. Afterwards pointing your finger at the state is a bit problematic, because, I think, at least as far as I can turn, the conditions have returned, that one has to see that without a hopefully better organized state, when we often find it, it will not go without a more efficient but at least more effective state. A lot can be said about public debt and the accumulation of public debt, which happens even in better times; what is bad, by the way. The last indebtedness you, as I say, rightly welcomed once again the sum, because something has to be done because it was clear, especially after the financial crisis had also triggered a real economic crisis, that you also have to counter it. After all, this was a keynesian realization: to allow automatic stabilizers to work, to drive investment programmes – as well or as bad, we can continue to argue about it. Whether it was g’scheit to support the old industries, or if one should have gone into more modern start-up and promotion actions would have been put in place. In any case, that is the basic principle. So you actually have higher public debt, and this is where the question arises – in that respect I am exactly in the case of sub-division 16 in the case of public charges –: Who – that was always the slogan under which it was sealed; at least the more critical groups – carries the burden of this crisis discharge? The fact that the level of indebtedness is not to remain directly that high, there is broad agreement on this, at least if it is not to be carried out over a large wave of inflation. That is how the States could help themselves. But this is not very popular for other reasons. If we rule this out, it's clear: Debts must be reduced, new deficits should be kept to a minimum, logical. This requires discipline on expenditure, and that is why we must also look at revenue; we have already talked a lot about expenditure. It is ÖVP division that one cannot do anything at all on the revenue side, or should do nothing more, but we see this as different, because, of course, a structural reform has long been in place. I brought today – it is still on top of my place, this high packerl – the studies from the economic research and other institutes, which almost everywhere breathe this spirit, that one should change the tax structure in Austria, namely, with the labour-related and wage-related taxes – that will not be new to you, that you will also demand on occasion – and else should go up, either in the ecologicalisation of the tax system or in the capital-related taxes, because we are very far behind in the OECD comparison. One could temporarily increase a little for budget renovation and then go down in return. But that would mean going down with the others, where we are almost at the top of the world, such as the taxes on work. It is always argued that if you make too much in wealth, it may be anti-performance. - That depends on where you're going. In the case of a general asset tax, in which one already has difficulties with the survey, with the classification of the basis of assessment, it is possible to make real questionable signs – otherwise there could also be shift effects, et cetera – but at least with a few reference points one could start already. They always turn it as if the inheritance and gift tax were something that hits every little one again. – That’s a question of configuration. Of course, if you make allowances of several hundred thousand euros, then enough remains with what is inherited in Austria. And it is really impossible to see that for several million inheritance no cent tax at all falls. Nor does the argument help – now that you have come to terms with this, otherwise the ÖVP has always been reserved – that this would have been taxed once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer]] That's true everywhere. Apart from that, let's start with the one it uses, namely, inheriting! He just gets the inheritance! He would have to work for 20 years or, if he earns more, for less, maybe five or ten years to earn this sum, but would pay on average, taxes and social security contributions of 50 percent. That's not enough. That is exactly the opposite of the principle of performance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] You're saying that's already been taxed. – Against this background, under this aspect, we make an immediate request, and you will be the first to agree that we will abolish VAT, because everyone who consumes anything, even if he eats only one meat cream, usually pays it out of taxed income. – That's not how the argument works, so stop it! They will have to explain why all possible economic processes, which are quite useful, are taxed so high in Austria and thereby also disabled and damaged, as well as the entire argument about the jobs and from me also about the self-employed income – it is not only about the workers – while an inheritance, that is, sometimes very high unemployment income, should be tax-free. This is not at all compatible with a Christian-social understanding, but also with the principle of performance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] You have to understand that we are looking at this from the perspective of the inheritance. You can win a lot, too. It is not only a matter of doing harm to someone, it is a matter of reversing the system, and it is possible to give the appropriate tax axles, where this is quite reasonable, about which we could reach an immediate agreement. But so much time now is not at all to break your resistance because you just stay true to your campaign. Sometimes you tell yourself so long until individuals of you really believe it. Finally, when we had the opportunity to have a closer conversation in the Committee on Budgets on this subject, all of you, at the end of the day, all of you, all of you, were naught. That's how it was, and you've been right in nagging! But it will take a little more time, then you will also have to give up your resistance here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Otherwise, of course, it would be tempting to talk about what happens to the money, for which essentially the Federal Government, from me to the national council as a whole, or in the majority, federal institutions of the Republic, if one wants to say so, bear the responsibility, what happens to the money, for which you too, Mr. colleague, must take on the responsibility, as far as height and design is concerned – we have just discussed it – what happens to the money we pass to the countries and communities – let us once away the communities – there. It's really in the arse in the countries. That is why it would be the right place to discuss once again this whole organized refusal of reform of the national leaders, so that we can finally go a little further. That's how things really are connected. I wonder how long it will be until we get rid of these district school inspectors. Even if you set up the educational directorships that are set up in these alternative concepts at the national level – probably you won't get out to do the nine times – you get the net effect, because of course they cost something, we thought it was serious, still € 40 to 50 million savings a year, without any special loss. I think there would be much to gain, and it would be cheaper. But You know very well that this is going through, on the one hand, in the semi-ideological but on the other hand also in the power-political struggle and struggle that the national leaders or individuals lead in particular. The question is: How long can we afford such a thing? In this respect, the question of subdividing 44 would be as follows: How long do we want to afford reform-resistant national leaders? That's the point. You should answer that, Secretary of State. This would be a contribution to progressing here. Let's leave this with the bank package. That would be wonderful to celebrate in subheading 46. It may not be so much the problem that there is equity in there when corresponding returns come back. The problem is another: If we don't get the money back in connection with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, that's going to be a loss. But that's what others have to answer. That's clear. A question remains, of course, given the risk that taxpayers take over for the liabilities that have gone out. These are twenty billions that have actually been entered into liability. Even in this so-called participation capital, we have only the risk on the government side, because if no profits are written in the bank, there is nothing. At once, the capital principle applies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Otherwise, it's designed like a credit. I wonder why the EU is not more concerned about this, but perhaps it will be added. These are already constructions where, from my point of view, the taxpayer is not paid enough for what might be at risk. The liability is very, very low when comparing it with other liability fees on the market. But be it. The resumé, Mr Stumvoll, which you have employed or wanted to recruit, or to whom you have also invited others to move at the end of the debate, is, of course, different for me at one point, especially since Mr Cap has been criticised for the fact that actionism has broken out in Parliament. The only activism that I have known up to now was at the very beginning. But for this, “actionism” is a bit euphemistic, because that was the organized breach of the constitution of this federal government. This is annihilation when one says “actionism. ” [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Everything else is hopefully here in the House – hopefully, I say in confidence in the President, the Presidents and the Committee Presidents, Mr Auer, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, within the framework of the laws, if you wish. That is why it was perfectly clear, and it is true that at least individual Members are here to speak when the government is dealing with Parliament in this way, regardless of the differences of opinion that one can and should and should have on individual budget positions. That's clear. But this procedure cannot be accepted by a self-confident Parliament. It has begun this legislative period, which the Josef Cap has produced there – he always puts the speaker's seat a little higher, that is, about that – where he has sunk out and announced the new parliamentaryism. Let's find out the protocols. And that is the result of this new parliamentaryism? That he is here – he now has nothing more to think of than always accusing the opposition as a rabbi – the government is making the robbers for all these processes?- Oh, my God! We won't let that happen. In this respect, it was precisely true that – and you have also requested this – the Members or the political groups here have put forward their counter-proposals in the form of applications for parliamentary action – it is not more precise, because they express their counter-proposals – and have put them to the vote. And the fact that we have called for nominal votes for them is due to the fact that you do not tell the opposite of what you are doing here in every Christmas address.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46791	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46823	Go, Karl, we've heard some business for 13 hours, haven't we? It's annoyed me now that you're pretending to be the first time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] But before I get started, I just wanted to say to my colleague stupidly: If you talk about Kreisky, in principle, if any party or party representative talks about Kreisky, I am of course always quite skeptical as a Social Democratic, because it is generally not about interpreting something authentic. Let me explain the difference between what Kreisky has done and what you do! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Did he pick up corporations or not?]] Yes, Kreisky has promoted companies to settle in Austria and create jobs. Yes, he did! But what are you doing? They promote the loss of jobs. That's what you're actually doing with the company depreciation! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What happens if one – so you don't know? [[Abg. Hornek: Androsch, young man!]] Okay, then I'll explain to you what you're doing. If today a company in Austria buys a competitor, i.e. a competitor, what will arise in principle? Will there be more competition in Austria or less? Probably less. Will there be more jobs or fewer jobs when a company buys a competitor? As a rule, there will be fewer jobs because there are, of course, synergies. That's it. What are you doing? They say to the entrepreneur: Half the purchase price you can write off from the tax for 15 years. That is, you are promoting an activity that leads to fewer jobs and less competition, and that is quite something different than Bruno Kreisky has done. He has promoted activities that have created jobs and also increased competition. And that's very different from what you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: How many jobs did the national lights cost?]] If one lets the discussion about the budget here happen, then one sometimes has the impression that in Austria people are going to be so bad that they have to eat grass, and the government does nothing but send mobile snow cannons throughout the country all day, so that the snow cover as thick as possible is above the grass. I have already had the impression in the discussion that we are talking about very different countries here. The truth is: Yes, the world has been caught by a world economic crisis. Yes, Austria too has been affected. We have had a giant minus in gross domestic product, the largest since 1945. The economy has certainly experienced the most severe crisis. Unemployment has risen to record levels in Austria. We bought a huge budget deficit to counter this. We have taken a lot of money in order to stabilise the financial system. And we have always said that we are now deliberately going up the debt, and we have to come down with the debt when economic growth gets up again – and that is what we are doing now. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Unlike otherwise!]] We do this with a moderate savings package. Someone said it's a savings package. So “sparkets” is perhaps a bit too cute, but at least it is compared to those of other countries in Europe, but also compared with the savings packages, for example in Austria in the 1990s, a very small, moderate package. There is no one here in the House who agrees with every single measure, but, quite honestly, we have not brought together something better. That is what we are bringing together, and that is something I can support, and that is a policy that, when we look at the figures across Europe, is quite right. Faith Are you really sure we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe by chance? Is this a coincidence, or has politics been a part of it, because we may not have done everything right, but we have not done it all wrong? I say that the results of the policy we see compared to other countries and to neighbouring countries give this government a right and give the majority in this House the right that what we have done here was right, too, for this country. And I also believe that this budget will show that it is the right answer to the crisis and is the right way to get the debt back in Austria and slow down re-indebtedness, and that is why we support it. A word about administrative reform, because here all the administrative reforms write so large. Now the Federal Minister for Defence has said that I have my own forestry administration in the federal army, I do not need it, that is not my core task, but there is someone who can do it much better than I, namely the Austrian Federal Forest. And what did the three opposition parties do here? – You voted against a reasonable administrative reform! Remember your own words and what you do in practice here!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46950	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e46977	Madam President. High house! I am bringing here the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Magistrate. Widmann, Ing. Lugar, Grosz, colleagues on a short-term clear tax relief and a medium-term comprehensive tax reform within the meaning of the BZÖ Flat Tax tax model and will now explain it in its main guidelines. Our flat-tax model refers essentially to a gross annual income of up to €14 235.28 with a flat-rate charge of 10 percent. From an income of €14 235.29, a total tax rate of €11 000 per year, including all charges of 44 percent, will be applied to the middle class according to the flat-tax model, and not to the minister or super-rich in that country, as it has been. In addition, child care costs are counted accordingly, the family allowance is adjusted and valorised. Corporate taxation is designed as a legal form neutral and is set at 25 percent. The three types of farm income, income from agriculture and forestry, self-employed and commercial activities, are combined into a single type of income. Furthermore, we want a total reform of the pay-related taxes and a reduction in the cost of the administration, which is automatically associated with them, and the installation of a single tax authority, which brings simplification and simplification, and, last but not least, a merger of social security funds, which will also achieve a savings in the administration. I have now briefly explained this motion for a resolution. With this flat-tax model we can support the economy accordingly and a fair, fair and in implement the management of simple tax model. That is why I ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47022	Mr Lugar, I also understand your speech as a request for me to copy and distribute a request, which is not a matter of course. And I would like to invite all of you to maintain the previous practices and to ask before, because only in this way can Parliament's management prepare, and we do not come back to the dilemma, then at the last moment to have uncopyed and undistributed applications. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oils.]] This request will therefore be distributed. They have explained it in the core lines, and it will be negotiated as soon as it is distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47137	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47158	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate of this year, which is no surprise, is the result of the biggest economic crisis that the world, Europe and Austria have experienced for many decades. It was perfectly clear to us, for all, government and opposition, that we must respond to this economic crisis in 2008 and 2009. With what? With the help of the State to stabilise the financial system, with the help of the State to support the productive economy, and with the help of the State to increase the purchasing power of the people. Technically, that means: Bank package, unanimously decided, economic package, unanimously decided, and tax reform, adopted by a large majority. Hopefully, it was clear to all parties involved – hopefully I am never quite sure – that after decision making of these additional expenditures the B must come. Whoever A says about additional tax expenditure must say B that the logical consequence is the consolidation of the government budget. Austria presents itself with this task, the Austrian Federal Government presents itself with this task, Josef Pröll presents himself with this task, and he does not depart from this task. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where is he?]] Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has always been the fastest in Europe in the fight against the crisis – economic packages, economic packages, bank packages – among those who acted as the first, the most consistent, the fastest. Austria has always, in the consensus of all parties, clearly positioned itself in Europe that the strength of the European Union, especially the euro area, lies in a strong growth and stability pact, in a consistently implemented and none soared. It is therefore not about the credibility of Austria alone, and this budget, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the opposition, but also about Austria's creditworthiness, and the sum of loss of credibility and loss of credit, that Austria would pay even more interest on public debt, and we would have the risk of finally having to pay several billions of additional interest from the budget if we did not act now. There is therefore no alternative to this action in order not to enter into the negative effects of this development that has occurred in Europe in other countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The conclusion, therefore, following this budget debate, and from my point of view, cannot and cannot withdraw a party from the House: on the one hand, the strengthening of the European perspective. Only a consistent growth and stability pact, a consistent orientation in this European perspective on the most stable Europe, the European Economic Area, the euro area, gives us the right perspective in Austria. But we can only make this credible if Austria continues consistently along this path of the 2011 budget. This is my firm conviction, ladies and gentlemen: The crisis is not really over until the state budgets in Europe are back in the lot – not just the Austrian one. That is why we will be accompanied by this task, as we have already decided in Parliament with the Budget Framework Act by 2014, by the Federal Government. This effort, this consolidation effort, ladies and gentlemen, will not be spared us. This does not save the responsibility of the government parties. It does not save responsibility for the opposition parties either. In this sense I think it was an important discussion, sometimes not necessarily of the highest quality and the best style. But this common responsibility, which can and must not avoid the opposition, if it wishes to be credible, either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then hold them back, the responsibility!]] The government parties don't! The Austrian People's Party is responsible for this, and Josef Pröll is aware of it. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47259	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47280	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am somewhat surprised by the words of Mr. Molterer, former Minister of Finance, when he speaks of the years 2008, 2009. We could also talk about the year 2007, Mr. Ex-Finanzminister. That was a good economic year, which was a year when government revenue was scattered, where you had billions of extra income and where you could easily have brought together a balanced or even positive budget. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was the first year where we came back below 60 percent of the debt ratio!]] Only: They've got the issues shot back into the herb and they've produced a minute again. That's why I'm surprised when you're talking about budget discipline. I think you should be a little careful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: When was it the first time that we got back below 60 percent of the debt ratio? 2007!]] Yes, we can still talk about that, about the year 2007. We're still digging that out. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the financial market and financial security. I did so on 28 May. In January 2009, the Minister of Interior sent a written request concerning Medici Bank and asked: “Do you find suspicions that international money laundering was being carried out on the grounds of this institute?” “If so, what have you done so far?” Simple answer to these questions: “No.” – There is nothing, you know nothing, there has been no investigation to explain the suspicion of money laundering. But we now know that Mrs. Kohn and Bank Austria have raised billions of dollars and euros to Bernard Madoff in the United States via the Medici Bank. We don't know today how much of it was black money, gray money or white money. The Ministry of Finance, the Austrian authorities have no idea what money was. Next question on 24. In September 2010 on the development of derivative trading. The “The Press” newspaper said that the Austrian banks now have just under €2.6 trillion – 2 600 billion – of derivatives products in their books. The National Bank Governor Novotny, interviewed for this purpose, had to admit that he could not assess the risk of these sizes. In a question to the Minister for Finance, I asked the following question: “How do you assess the amount of risk involved in these derivative transactions?” Mr Finanzminister's reply: “The derivative trade implies that the extent of the open positions at risk is variable in the course of time.” – No na! “Numbers not available to the Federal Ministry of Finance.” – And so on, and so on. So no idea how much the risk of derivative trading, which is derivative products, is. I should like to say the following: If 3 percent of this size goes by default, then as much money is lost as the Austrian banks as a whole hold on to equity. Finally, a request concerning the examination of individual large credit institutions or banking groups. I asked the following questions: “When and by whom did the last test take place? What was the result of this last examination? How do you rate this result as BMF?" Answer to these points: ‘Since the FMA, as the competent authority in the area of banking supervision, is independent and in accordance with § 1 para. 1 FMABG is not bound by any instructions in the performance of its duties, the Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) shall not be informed of any audits carried out or of any results nor be empowered to request such reports. Therefore, the BMF can deal with questions 2. – 4. do not comment.’ Ladies and gentlemen, you have to imagine that! The Federal Ministry of Finance is not at all informed of what it looks like with the Austrian banks, with the examination of the banks, with their credit quality, with their security. However, the Federal Ministry of Finance is authorised to decide on the 100-billion-€ bank package. It can't be that way, Mr. State Secretary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary, in conclusion on financial market supervision: I would like to call you a few banks and financial services providers, as far as this financial market supervision is concerned: BAWAG-PSK, Bank Burgenland, Hypo Alpe-Adria, Meinl Bank, Bank Medici, Bank Austria, Municipal Credit Austria AG – this is the institution in which Ms. Education Minister Dr. Claudia Hase, in parentheses: knows of nothing, before forging, responsible – the Constantia Privatbank, company AMIS, Meinl European Land, Meinl International Power, Auer von Welsbach, Immofinanz, Immoeast, the financial firm Globe, AWD – all financial institutions in which financial market supervision has failed and where investors have been harmed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Hypo Niederösterreich!]] Mr State Secretary, I urge you to create clarity and order in this area of financial market supervision, in the sense of the Austrian savers and in the sense of the security of this Austrian financial centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47355	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47376	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dr. Königshofer, mixing apples with pears, is relatively difficult even in the cooking process, because the pears need longer to be sided. [[Abg. Hagen: That's a must!]] You should also take this into account when it comes to the question of the extent to which the Ministry of Finance is given access to the latest audit reports while at the same time providing assistance under the Financial Market Stability Act. – These are two different pairs of shoes. If an institution's application is filed on, for example, participation capital, then of course – and this also happens – each individual of these test reports must be made by a separate extra audit by the OeNB, which makes a kind of due diligence separately with all previous examinations and then makes an opinion. It is quite different, of course, if a request from a Member to the National Council is made. That's another problem. I am right to say that, in the construction of the FMA as an independent authority, we have in reality a kind of break-through of Members' right of interconnection. We have discussed this problem several times in this House, since your group was still a government party and Mr Grasser's Finance Minister. He has strictly refused to consider the corresponding production of the question law of the Members via FMA as well. It is also only partly the answer. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: It's not about this! The FMA does not provide any information to the Ministry of Finance!]] In particular, the Minister of Finance may request the report. However, I cordially invite you – there will certainly be changes in this GP – to discuss what we can improve. All efforts are made to create an improved system as far as possible. But now to today's crucial last hours of this budget. [[Abg. Grosz: The last hours of the Republic!]] In my view, it is indisputable that, after 2009’s expenditure, we are now decisively opposed, and we are doing so with this budget. A year earlier, we reach the 3 per cent according to the Maastricht criteria, we are on one of the best ways in Europe, and that is a real course in this situation. If the crisis comes back, we have enough room to be able to counter it if necessary. With us, there will be no other policy, because this is a classical budgetary policy carried out after Keynes, as it belongs – anticyclically. That's exactly why we do that. But as far as the question of where we are taking the money from the revenue side is concerned, it is audible that there are different positions among the government groups. I am glad, however, that this budget and the sub-division that is now under discussion contain half a billion bank charges. Why? – When there were problems in the financial sector, we jumped up within days and prevented the nuclear meltdown. Conversely, the following applies: We have done this for an industry that has been paying less and less corporate tax since the mid-1990s and is increasing in profits. The constructions, which are group-friendly forms, which Dr. Stummfully listed, also play a role in this. Just, quite honestly: I can't! We cannot give an industry more than 7 percent of GDP tax-free, then help it and then take nothing in return. – That is why we are doing this now, at the 15 largest institutes. All other 600 institutions do not have a bank charge, so there is no such total fidelity with the recalculation. I am even surprised that you are talking to Mr Rothensteiner after the mouth, because, of course, a bank cannot simply impose the cost if the small bank does not have it next to it. Therefore, the banks will have to take this part – as before the corporate tax – against the profits, and that is good. Now they pay once, and once they need help again, we'll probably have to give them again – and we'll do it again next time. Then come again the cassazette. In the inn you also have to pay when you've consumed. [[Abg. Hörl: Yes, that's true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There are a lot of pitchers!]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47470	Now comes Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47492	Madam President. High house! [[The speaker places a panel with a BZÖ logo and the inscription: “Administrative reform now” on the speaker’s desk.]] It is almost a dangerous threat, Mr Matznetter, if you say you will do it again next year as this year. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: For the next crisis!]] That is, you will refuse reforms next year, you will increase taxes next year, and you will in turn reject all the good proposals of the opposition next year. – So this is really dangerous if you already announce it today! [[Abg. May. Stadler: And the budget is presented late!]] – And you will also be late in presenting the budget, which means that you will break the constitution again – we know that now, that will take place again in 2011. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is really not a piece of art to present a budget with €70 billion expenditure and €62,5 billion revenue. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Taferl is wrong!]] – The Taferl is right, my colleague. – But then to claim that you make budget consolidation, you make the country debt-free, you free the youth from the future burdens, that is simply not true, quite the contrary: Interest services will already account for around €8 billion next year, with a sharp rise in trend. Just so we know what we're talking about: This is, in principle, a multiple of what we spend on science and research, and about what the federal subsidies make for pensions. You're not going to set up a renovation, and you're saving a lot of time in the future. They “pummel” the families, you “pummel” the research and science and students, you “pour” the pensioners, you have “grumbled” the disabled, and you have also “grumbled” the pendlers – and the colleagues from the Faymann-SPÖ congratulate them for doing so. But I think you can get better. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. – We want to give you this opportunity today! We want to give you a chance to eliminate, improve and vote in favour of tax relief and to do something for the future. We therefore have a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Ing. Lugar, Mag. Widmann, Grosz, colleagues on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' proposals on administrative reform and red tape, which I will briefly explain in the key points, proposes appropriate measures which are essentially characterised by the Court's proposals and should therefore be approved by the government parties. This is about administrative efficiency; it is about abolishing double-tracks; it is about a real task reform; it is also about questioning what laws we really need; it is about clear responsibilities in financing, spending and task responsibilities, to put them in one hand; it is about target and effect orientation, combined with appropriate instruments of cost accounting, benchmarking or also economic comparisons. It is about increased cooperation, especially at the municipal level; it is about stronger citizen orientation; it is about the comprehensive expansion of the eGovernment; it is about speeding up procedures, or also about finally harmonizing pension rights, remuneration rights and the human rights rights of the countries, municipalities and the federal government – and, and, and. The reforms in health care have been addressed, in the school sector as well, and ultimately it is also about making the tax laws so that they are understandable and easy to implement for the citizen. I therefore ask you to agree to this request, as well as to support the BZÖ's far more than one hundred other requests, because we want reforms instead of a standstill, we want discharge instead of high taxes, and we want a slim, citizen-like state instead of an administrative bureaucracy. These applications will eventually become a nail sample for this government. It is not a question of whether the opposition is subject to this issue, it is a question of whether this country has a future. Even if you are pleased if we do not implement the requests, this is ultimately a failure, a disregard for the interests of citizens, students, families, commuters, the disabled, and therefore a poor success for this country if you do not share this vote. – I therefore ask you to support our requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47572	I say it again now, because this is annoying me a little: I understand your remarks to the effect that you have made the request for me to make the request for distribution. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Please, Madam President, this has already been done in advance.]] I am looking for this, § 53 para. 4 GOG really look closely! I also want the proposal to be duplicated and distributed, and it is also a matter of negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47802	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47824	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the very interesting and exciting, long-lasting budget consultations, I would like to start by thanking my alternate members in the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Tamandel, Mr Grastaur and Mr Gartlehner. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thanks also to the staff of all the clubs who were trying to assist us accordingly, but above all also to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, who have helped us professionally as always. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate and opinions of the experts at the beginning of the budget consultation were interesting. Since in Austria the experts have some special importance – because if the expert claims something, it must be true – I have considered how great and how safe the opinions and forecasts of these experts were, since it was almost the same experts who helped us to advise and evaluate the budget 2009. Interesting was: The budget experts at the 2009 budget – Rossmann, Walterskirchen, Wlecke, Lehner, Schratzenstaller, that is, de facto the same as this one – at that time prophesied that the 2009 budget would be macular, it would have to be renegotiated that the budget deficit would never hold as forecast and as suggested it would be much higher. The expert nominated by the FPÖ even said that it could go up to 6 percent, the same thing Bruno Rossmann said – at least 5 percent budget deficit – and so on. What's come out, you know: Thanks to the professional work of the Federal Minister for Finance, thanks to the professional work of officials in the ministry and the excellent government policy, the budget deficit is much lower, the economy is growing and the facts and revenues are much better forecast than originally. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Jacob, not even the ÖVP applauded!]] Professor Lehner was closest with his expertise. Mr Kogler's long speech at night last Friday – I personally respect it – was remarkable. I didn't like the titulation in the media – long speech, short sense – because it was really hard. It is not quite easy to achieve such a performance when speaking for twelve quarters of an hour. 95 per cent of his contribution was, I believe, also worthy of recognition and as a real contribution to speech. [[Abg. Head: Let's say 80 percent!]] But he, having had so much time, was particularly concerned with tax inventions. He literally said – I have written – that it would be necessary to give up capital-related taxes heavily; a few hundred thousand – he then concretely stated: 500 000 € – should be tax-free, and the excess amount, he said, would have to be taxed at 25 percent. Let me give you an example: Imagine that you have a small agriculture – a miniature agriculture in Europe – with 20 to perhaps 25 hectares, depending on the credit, transport value 1.5 million € – 500 000 € tax-free to tax 1 million if it is to be inherited, i.e. 250 000 € taxes if it goes according to the Kogler model. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: €1.5 million Transport value, but that must be at the edge of the city!]] I guarantee you, Mr Kogler can then take over these farms himself – the young farmers would no longer be able to do so. That's where he can follow his dreams, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Linder.]] This is not possible, and we should therefore draw a little more clearly on the real possibilities that exist in these areas, and not create tax-inventive ideas that are economically and financially non-performing. That doesn't help us any more. Overall, this budget has been the right answer to the crisis. Overall, this budget is a professional response due to the conditions given by the crisis and will ensure that the coming years are ultimately also mastery in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47922	Mr Zanger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e47944	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the lack of reforms in the budget, it may be necessary to talk again about a chapter that might be such a cracking point in the dispute over the competences of the Land/Bund. – That, I think, is the main point why nothing goes on. One way to get up here would be to offset the financial situation. The Technical University of Vienna recently made a very interesting study, in which it found that extreme injustices exist as regards the distribution key. Salzburg municipalities receive € 1 019 per person per year from the tax pot. The Steiermark is a stepchild with 811 € per head. What's to blame for that? – To blame for this is an old system, an old distribution key, which depends on the then economic situation being frozen so to speak, not taking further developments into account and resulting in this difference today. 160 million € alone lacks the Styria. Interesting in this context is – and that not all of us say that, is clear to me – this graph of Statistics Austria, where you can see the following: [[keeps the same height]] Debt icon is the country of Styria with €670 million, and Salzburg, which belongs to those who also receive the highest demand allocations, is in the plus with €38 million. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think it will be necessary to initiate a process here that is concerned with changing the distribution key. For me, however, the question arises whether it is always useful to simply go here with the casting can and talk about per capita numbers and make money flow. I think it would be reasonable to introduce several parameters here. One point that seems particularly important to me is that communities should also consider each other: What can we contribute to reasonable, efficient administrations? because there is actually very little happening, and it is necessary – and we have already noted in the Committee – to start a discussion process at the lower levels. In this context, I would like to put in place a motion for a resolution which aims to define these parameters as the basis for financial compensation or at least to initiate a discussion process here. The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the competent finance ministers, are invited to forward to the National Council a government proposal to create an incentive system for communities to operate efficiently and efficiently with the resources obtained from the financial compensation. The amount of allocated funds should also be linked to current and appropriate parameters in order to avoid misallocations.’ Such parameters should be: The size of the municipalities, population, economic orientation of the municipality. I think that you should start talking and think about whether there can be some really sensible solutions to it. One thing must not happen: that, as happened in Fohnsdorf in Styria, mayors do not at all care about the legal basis for decisions, for financing and for economic developments of a community. It needs to raise awareness of responsibility, and I believe that this process of discussion on the financial adjustment and on the administrative reform can help down below. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48019	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48080	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48102	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Our economy has adapted to the rapid international change almost daily, and it is doing so in order to secure jobs in Austria, and public administration is also undergoing a change, and it is doing so. A prime example of this is financial management. And it has already been said today: It was really a special achievement, as the officials, together with the head of the Ministry of Finance, with the Minister of Finance, and the entire government, put their feet on the new budgetary law. A new public administration should appear to the public as a service company, so to speak, and it also appears within the framework of financial management. Financial Office, you could say, is going to FinanzOnline. And there is already a change in the labour market service. There, too, you can already submit online applications for unemployment benefit and can also be cared for online. In order to be able to provide this modern service, there is a need for appropriate structures, and these structures have been created with the new budget law, where tasks are divided, i.e. are divided over several years, with expenditure cover and with storage possibility. This structure allows the government – and we should be proud of it – so-called medium-term planning. And with this medium-term planning, I believe, we will be able to counter it very well even in the future when counter-taxes are again announced and necessary for the future. And since I ask the Austrian Federal Government to ensure that not only Austria renews itself in financial market management, but also that the European Union has the necessary renewals in terms of financial market control or financial control, even if we do not yet agree on this in the coalition. We should also work to ensure that the international financial market is regulated so that we can stick to the financial transaction tax. Then: It was not true in America that this was just a bad financial policy, but in America it was such that the income inequality became so strong that income had to be offset by public budget credits. And that can't be our goal! Our goal must be – and only with a modern financial market management – balanced and socially just as far as it is possible to manage, but also shape, budgets in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48146	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48168	Mr President. Mr State Secretary – yes, one stands over there! As a summary of these budget meetings, one can be drawn, namely the content of two quotations, one by Mr Krainer, where he said: We have no longer brought together, and one from Mr Pröll, where it was said: That constellation wasn't inside anymore! – I think that says everything! You can't add more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From the point of view of a member of the Committee on Finance, I would like to highlight a few things, including the increase in mineral oil tax. With regard to the increase in mineral oil tax, State Secretary Arbitrators assume that we will have some 500 million revenue from this. ARBÖ, on the other hand, calculates 200 million, because it believes that tank tourism will break away. If that happens, this mineral oil tax increase is a shot in the knee. In particular, I assume that gas station operators in the border regions will have massive financial losses. Next point: Basel III. – The G-20 summit in Korea decided on Basel III, which is ultimately about improving the supervisory mechanisms in the banking sector. Well, it's not even Basel II to the fullest. The purpose of Basel III is to improve the liquidity of banks for the future. We fear, however, that banks will have to raise capital. The risk is very high that this will leave too little money for the economy and will make it difficult for the economy to get credit, so that it could make the situation worse. Next point: Commercial diesel refund. – It would be very welcome if SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, were treated equally, particularly in the fields of commerce, tourism and trade. We are creating a two-class society in this area at the end of the day. In particular, small businesses are struggling with this increase in mineral oil tax. I would have another question to one of the Secretary of State, perhaps that could still be answered. – We have been told that next year a financial police force will be created, resulting from the KIAB. Until now, we have heard nothing but that there are no organizational structures yet, not even a staff station has been created so far. Who has the responsibility? What is the state of play? In particular, there is enormous uncertainty among officials, especially as to how many officials are really supposed to come from the German army. In the National Defence Committee, we were told that it should be for the 400 people. Last point: When the euro was introduced, we know that there were misevaluations, which confirm well-known economists, such as Robert Mundell. There is a danger that the euro zone will drift into a soft and a hard euro zone, and I would therefore like to make the following request in this respect: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48265	The two applications which have just been submitted are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48378	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48400	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Some, and three, thoughts at the end of this debate from my point of view. First of all: Thank God the growth has returned faster than expected worldwide. Austria and Germany have benefited to a particular extent. Of course, growth – particularly high in Germany, even very, very good with us – has facilitated budgeting and will continue to facilitate it. However, on a day like this, let us be aware of why growth in our region is stronger than elsewhere. I come back to the fact that it is completely undisputed among experts that it is the industry that it is the export-orientedness of this country – also Germany’s, by the way – that provides us with stronger growth. We should know. And we should also know this when it comes to criticizing companies, large companies and, like the coalition partner's side, constantly involving them in a bashing. That's not appropriate. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we Austrians, of course, are involved in the euro area, and nothing would be more wrong if we wanted to develop two different euro zones, as requested by the Liberals' motion for a resolution. A euro hard, a euro light: I'm sure you can't! The euro has been talking over the last few weeks, but I am with those who, as Novotny says, believe that there are some Euro countries that have a problem, but the euro itself is strong. The euro itself is relatively hard, perhaps even a bit harder than our export economy wants. The eurozone as a whole is also in order. The total debt of the euro area is a little lower than that of the USA. So the Irish, Greek and other problems are more than compensated for by the healthy finances of Germany, but also, for example, Austria. Let us consider what is going on in Austria if the euro is not available! Then there would be a D-Mark, then we would still be linked to a D-Mark, and this D-Mark along with Schilling would probably be as high as the Frank – with all the consequences for the export industry and for jobs. And a third thought at the end of this budget debate that day: It is true that we have talked a lot about those who need our solidarity – just a few days before Christmas. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is just as important to say: It needs solidarity with the weak, but it also needs solidarity with those who pay in this country! That's the middle class, and that's the economy that can pay if they're fine. So, too, there is a certain balance that we should take a little more account of: Solidarity with the weak, but let us also remember that it also needs solidarity with the payers in this country. There are many of them – it is the middle class – and they pay quite strong. As you all know, we are actually a high tax country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48464	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48485	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! If the President of the Federal Republic of Germany calls for more reforms for the communities in these days, I believe that it is right that we need to reform and unbundle the areas of care financing, hospital financing and the like, and to put them under the motto again and again: Whoever pays, creates! or: Whoever buys is to pay too! If Mr. Mödlhammer further criticises that 70 percent of the municipalities are now old-age communities, and therefore demands more money, I can say as a Carinthian: I'm a little proud, because we had 50 percent of old towns in Carinthia in 2010, from 132 municipalities 66, and we were able to reduce them by 25 percent to 33 percent in 2011. If I read in his press release how high the per capita debt is, I note: The highest per capita debt in the Lower Austrian municipalities is €2 311 per head. Then Upper Austria comes with 1 800 €, after which Vorarlberg comes with 1 700 €, and then follows the Styria with 1 600 €. This is another proof to me that we are on the right track in the financial field in Carinthia. [[Abg. Hornek: What?- Oh, my God!]] The reason for the fact that the Carinthian communities are much better off than the other Austrian communities is certainly the increasing share of income, but also a very clever and intelligent BZ distribution model, where the communities that are economical in the economy are rewarded, and the fact that above average structural costs in turn need to reduce the allocation of needs and the communities themselves to be able to exploit the full BZ resources. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In addition, we have very large budget allocations for intercommunal cooperation. And I think it has now been recognized that the recipe is “cooperation” rather than “congregation of the communities”. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I telling you this? – Maybe because I'm a little proud that we in Carinthia are doing well with the communities. The Greens should be said – by the way, a Greens seat is completely empty, there are only two or three Members here –: You are the ones who most criticize the communities that worship the churches and say: Get away with it, put it together, reform it, learn to work! But if I look at the Cinnamon, which was listed here on Monday: a hundred votes, 24 names, at the 24 of the Greens you were the applicants, I think I can say, ladies of the Greens: There is no one of you any more the right to criticize a church as long as you act in here like children! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That doesn't mean no citizen outside! No citizen outside has an understanding of this. We are in direct contact with the citizens outside and we need to justify this – and you are hiding inside here and we have a tinnober like this! I do not believe that as long as one acts in this way, such a way of thinking, one has in any way the right to criticise the communities, should take an example of the democratic understanding of the communities, and should, before one practices criticism, work on itself and give a good example here. [[Abg. Oillinger: Completely by the way!]] [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48559	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48581	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a bold maneuver, the Carinthian financial policy as a success to present a model. However, it is undisputed that there are highly respectable achievements in municipalities and cities in Carinthia. That is why I would like to give Mr Linder a few lines. I also believe that the issue of municipal finances has generally been missed in the budget debate, because the situation is indeed dramatic when every third community is de facto threatened by the pleite. This, of course, has a corresponding impact on investment, on small and medium-sized enterprises. That's not foreseeable at all. Of course, something has to happen urgently. What can happen? – Three objectives must be pursued. On the one hand, the municipalities need revenue. There's no way past that. There are also various proposals made by the local authorities, by the municipal associations. Ground and soil is such a proposal, especially where there are increases in value through revaluations. – That would be one: new revenue for the communities. The second is: Reforms; there and there efficiency improvements are possible. A rail is the Court of Auditors. There are additional recommendations and directives in the future, there are also some initiatives in the countries that can be considered very closely. The third is how to deal with those responsible and local politicians, including young people in the communities. There is also an urgent need for a change. On the other hand, it takes such a thing as respect and recognition and appreciation for the really difficult work. This will not be easier if there are these financial problems which the ladies and gentlemen responsible for the localities do every day. They have a special responsibility, to some extent as head of the branch of the Republic of Austria. I therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to change and improve the framework conditions. It is the well-known things, and they are really manageable as far as funding is concerned, which is urgently reformed. What about mayors who become unemployed? – Something like this can happen in the course of a choice. What about the reimbursement of pension contributions? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We must also make this clear, and we will do so in the next few weeks and months. Ladies and gentlemen, it really belongs to this injustice to eliminate that ASVG insured persons are treated worse where there are rules of rest than the official mayors. [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. Wheeler.]] This is a common task that we should devote ourselves to in the next weeks and months of the new year. Our local authorities really deserved this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48651	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48672	Mr President. I would suggest that, first of all, it should be noted whether a political group that has even come to an end is still in existence. I haven't seen anyone from BZÖ in half an hour. Do you have any information, Mr President?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48694	I don't have one, but I won't interrupt the session for a search either.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48720	Very good. There I already see an employee of the BZÖ. The club still exists, okay. I am pleased and we can continue to discuss the budget. Interestingly, the interest in this subject also seems to be falling dramatically among many oppositionists over time, although: It hasn't said everything yet. It was said very much by very many, but still long, far not all. It has always been repeated and very often the same, with only marginally different words, but I have not heard one, especially from the second bank of the ÖVP, where the budgetary discipline is always properly advised. I have heard from the ex-ministers – ex-financial ministers, ex-economic ministers – that we are a high-tax country, that we need solidarity with taxpayers, with the taxpayers, that we achieve stability only through a renovated and balanced budget. – All right, all right, 100% is signed by me and all my group colleagues. There's nothing there. What I never hear, however, is the question: How do we achieve that? By reforms? Yes, of course, I can make reforms. There is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Lugar, Mr Widmann, on behalf of the non-existent group. These are five sides of reforms, reforms. There is – not a keyword – a sense of ambiguity in the Austrian administration: that the word “administrative reform” stands for everything to become ever more complicated, cumbersome and expensive. It was the same thing if, for example, we start from school reform. The school is one of the most reformed things in Austria. I can remember: From my first day at middle school – or high school, as this means now – we have had to deal with school attempts, school reforms and so on. Today – it's been a while since, far over 30 years, I've been to school – the same people are sitting here, the same parties and saying: Reform, reform, reform! Mrs. Schmied says: Reform, reform, reform! This place has been mostly in the hands of the SPÖ since my school years. There's nothing passing! But nothing happened when it was in the hands of the ÖVP. It's just one thing that happened: Tests have been made, changes have been made, shifted from A to B and from C to D and from D to A – and all of this has been called “reform”. The fact is: If I want to change something, I have to go to the content, and if I want people to learn to read it, then people also have to read and not learn to read. Because if I also learn for a year, I will learn nothing from learning, except learning. – effect zero! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is similar with the budget. The same is true of expenditure discipline. If I always conjure the taxpayer, conjure up the balanced budget, I have to ask: What causes costs? Essentially, the tasks are. When I set up tasks, I cause costs, because not only in the mill is an empty bag not alone, but also in the administration a provision that is to be observed and managed only with administrative staff and with it with costs. In the whole discussion, which has gone over dozens of hours, I have never heard: Where do we reduce the state's tasks? Where has the state been spreading in more and more areas over decades in the form of habital rights, which sometimes multiply exponentially? Where has the state taken over from making a parallel economy to the private sector? Where did the state subsidies push out the market? I have not heard anything about subsidies, nor from this second bank, nor from you. [[towards ÖVP]] We stand here at 16.4, 16.7, 16.3 billion €, which we have subsidized in recent years into a distortion of competition. Much of that can hardly be changed, I admit. What you put into the train and so on has already some basic economic needs, but very, very much, all that is going on under ecologisation, under steering, under control, using it for more efficiency, all this is nothing but a huge administration machine where you throw tax money up. 100 taxpayers, then it is managed and managed. Then there is the administration, which is being reformed from time to time. At the bottom of the 100 come out at the end of 62 or 60 or 52 or 37, which then flows in, depending on how high the amount is. We must address all this structural error of our system. If we don't do that, if we're not ready for it, then it's hollow and not just unsatisfying for the people, but – let's say – political classics are always hearing: We protect, we make, we acknowledge, we don't want to stabilize. Because then people know it's nothing but talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48808	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48830	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We have heard many times today that this biggest crisis is of course also a budgetary concern for us. We have, I believe, taken the right measures here. The Federal Financial Framework Act was an asset in this structure that from 2011 to 2014 we clearly set out the consolidation principles to save 60 percent on the expenditure side and to get 40 percent over new revenue. We therefore have a total of over €8.1 billion savings by 2014. This has never been done in this way. However, it will still be important to work hard here on the measures relating to the budget. We will also have to work in the future to ensure that we do not continue to increase the tax rate, because everyone knows that too high a tax rate is harmful to every economy. We will also have to work on the fact that such crises do not arise in the future. Here, I think, it is particularly necessary to introduce appropriate financial rules at international level. I'm with Dr. Königshofer. We need to raise awareness of financial market supervision in every way that such bubble formations as they have in the past will remain separate from us in the future. In my view, this is one of the essential findings of this very serious crisis that we had to deal with. Overall, we can still look to the future with some confidence in Austria. We are pleased to have special growth effects, a very good employment rate and a low unemployment rate. We have a very powerful economy. And I am very glad that today, through the APA, we have achieved a report that the credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s Austria reaffirms the triple A rating and in its statement says that the Austrian economy is “taxable” and the budget consolidation plan “clearly defined”. So I think it is already internationally clear that Austria has done its homework quite well. In conclusion, I wish – perhaps not a wish for the Christian child, but for you, ladies and gentlemen of this House – that we should always be again – and in the last three days I have heard a lot of demands made on the State and on the expenditure of the State: We should remember with every demand that the money for this should be used somewhere in the government budget. We should also deal with this in greater measure and perhaps make our demands more considerate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48872	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48893	Mr Stumpfully mentioned today that the bubble of soap has been crushed and there is no savings package that nobody feels and that offensive measures have also been taken in the course of budget consolidation. Mr Stumvoll also mentioned that there will be no cuts in pensions. That was actually the reason why I have now undertaken to explain my personal feelings about the whole situation of the ASVG-pensions. I would like to add that thanks to God, contrary to the intentions of some EIA delegates, we have succeeded, at least by 2013 in preventing the long-term insured scheme from being intervened and that this long-term insurance scheme is now being reformed instead of being abolished. But if I look at the losses suffered by the ASVG-pensionists alone due to the so-called pension reduction reforms and pension harmonisations in 2003 and 2004, it is really incomprehensible to me that it was in the 21st century. There are still countless pension systems in Austria in the century. In my opinion, another point is worth mentioning in the course of the whole debate on pensions, for we have been instigated in the past: You have to build a second pillar, give your money to the so-called pension funds. Regardless of the fact that many people in Austria cannot afford such private pension schemes at all, the abolition of the minimum interest rate of these pension funds has resulted in nothing to be justified. If, in this context, I look at the performance of the pension funds due to the political misconception at the time, there is no longer even the money I paid. That is where I really wonder if these millions have gone into the pension funds and where these summaries actually flowed. I believe that we all have the greatest need for action to announce the pension funds in this matter. [[Abg. Oillingers: But also the finishing new!]] As Mr Steindl said earlier that he had no wish for the Christian child, I would like to say: I already have one, because in the last few days, reforms have always been mentioned. I'd say, Let's really get together and try to find a uniform pension right for all Austrians. Mr Wöginger said this yesterday; a pension right with uniform pension contributions, with a uniform right to benefit. For it is more than inconceivable that some – even though few are – after 40 years of contributions – that perhaps at 58 years of age and with 80 percent or more of the last income – will have to go into a “hack” and others up to 62 will have to “hack” pension entitlements. It would be a laugh that we don't bring this together if we all want to do it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48933	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e48954	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Making debt is unsocial, so it is also necessary that we reorganise this government budget, which we will decide today. I have noticed in the last few days, just from the opposition, that it is thought that savings would be inappropriate or that the debt could always go on and that you don't have to save at all. Now, for example, two members of the BZÖ are here again: Today, your request for tax reform was again made by a flat-tax rule. I would like to know if you are even thinking about what you would cost. On the other hand, I would like to know how you can imagine this if, for example, the costs of child care can only be deducted for the parent who relates to the family allowance. This would mean that injustice is likely to occur very often, because many fathers receive the family allowance and mothers would not be able to pay off child care costs. So I don't know if you really want to. We don't want that! We do not want injustices in this area. In addition, there are things inside that simply do not vote: for example, tax premiums for re-settings should come in a one-man company. I don't know if this has gone away from you, but a one-man company will be granted a year if it hires the first employee, the additional wage exemption. And that's how it goes. I believe that in recent years we have really shown that we have done a lot in the tax sector. Of course, this has to be developed more and more. But on the one hand, I would like to know exactly the demands of the BZÖ, but on the other hand I would also like to address Mr Kogler's long speech. He could have told us, for example, in the Committee on Budgets, what all that he has on his requests for applications costs us, because we cannot undermine the state budget once again, where we do not know who to pay the taxes then, that we can get something out of it again. So please: Money doesn't grow on the trees. Colleagues Auer has already thanked all the employees of the house. I believe that Mr Kogler – and perhaps you will be doing it – would have been good if he had thanked the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate for having spent countless hours of the night because of his almost 13-hour speech here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You too, Mr Oellinger, have shown and advertised on Facebook what Werner Kogler said in his speech. And those who have responded to your blogs have also meant: The Members, they're supposed to sit there. But no one – nor you – has ever thought about what is with the employees who sit here for hours, even at night. Mr Kogler had to work longer and work for what he saw.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49021	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49042	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Two points. First of all, I would like to say that crisis management in Austria has been better achieved than in many other countries, particularly in terms of the lowest unemployment rates in the EU. The very well-functioning social partnership in our country has also contributed substantially to this great success. I would like to expressly support this. Secondly, The financial situation of the cities and municipalities has already been mentioned. Of course, there must be a clear allocation of tasks between countries, cities and municipalities, and financial access by the countries to the municipalities must be prevented. Undisputed over all political camps, people of the cities and communities would expect them to ensure a high quality of social services, from kindergarten to sustainable housing, but also that local authorities are important clients for small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. It cannot be said that, in the case of necessary projects, the municipalities, the cities will become bitters in the countries. Municipal autonomy, local self-government requires a new weighting, an upgrade. Ladies and gentlemen! Strong municipalities, strong cities strengthen the state as a whole. I would like to join the appreciation of those responsible on the ground, in the communities, by Günther Herbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49079	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49101	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest economic and financial crisis in recent decades has faced many public budgets with serious problems. The stabilisation of our Community currency, the security of the banking sector and the rescue of a national bank have been considerable challenges of recent times, which our vice chancellor bravouros has faced. A few years ago, ladies and gentlemen, no one could have imagined that states, countries or communities could be at the edge of inability to pay. Despite a triple A rating from the Republic of Austria, measures must be taken in time to prevent negative scenarios. We must be aware that the Republic of Austria today, 10 before 12, 22. December, 198 059 000 € in debt. The interest rate in this context amounts to € 7.7 billion in 2010. In addition, if you charge the expenses and external stocks of the ÖBB, ASFINAG and BIG in the order of 30 billion, that is another 2.3 billion. [[Abg. Booker: That's not enough! More!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I made the effort to make a comparison. The interest rate in this context is higher than the total budget of the country of Lower Austria, or if I compare the interest on the budget of the Republic and the outsourced institutions, you can count the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of State Defense, the Ministry of Science and Research, and only then will you reach the amount that constitutes the current debt burden. Save, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, is neither popular nor pleasant, but indispensablely necessary. If we want to secure social benefits, we need to change some things. The budget with 40 percent new revenue and 60 percent savings will be taken into account. Those who want to preserve good must change some things – that is what this budget has as an approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49137	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49159	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! In the last three days, the opposition has been highly criticised, sometimes emotionally, sometimes less, sometimes factually, sometimes less, and so on some milkmaid bills, as by my colleague Grastaur at the beginning of this agenda. You don't believe that's all you've told us. The government groups have outlined the need for consolidation measures and are also in good company. ==References====External links== ==References== Because the government has failed to say that it has kept the country from being damaged, it is washed off. - Quote. And that's exactly how it is! At this point, too, the old chancellor formulated this in the “report” yesterday, and one can discuss some measure. In total, the direction is right, the budget is without an alternative. There must be further reforms, especially in the next two years in which there is no planned choice. These reforms include the state reform on the one hand, but also a change in the tax structure. At this point, I would like to address the issue of the distribution of tax revenue in Austria with a view to abroad. The tax rate, which, according to the statistics of Austria in 2001, had an all-time high of 45.3 percent, is expected to be 42.4 percent this year. The OECD has found that the tax burden on labour income in Austria is particularly high. If you charge the local tax and contributions to the FLAF, Austria has the largest tax rate on labour income after France. The OECD further notes that Austria is highly reluctant, but that it is also in the field of property taxation. Income from corporate taxes such as land, property, gift and inheritance tax is lower only in Mexico, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. These are all countries with significantly lower assets. If we want to ensure the challenges of the future and the sustainable financing of health and care, the revenues from the state reform would not be sufficient. Or does anyone here think that's gonna be enough? When we finance our future in infrastructure, research, science; Health and care, in universities and education, we need fresh money. The demand for a structural tax reform, as last raised by Chancellor Werner Faymannin of the “press hour”, is more than justified and the necessary preparatory work must be undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49210	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49242	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Hours in today’s “Kurier” another headline than “Viel Lob, Little Tadel for Austria”, would it be vice versa, namely, “Viel Tadel, somewhat praise for Austria”, I am convinced that the opposition speakers are pouring out massively and montage this headline. I'm doing it now because the headline is positive. You can think of the rating agencies as what you want, but I think it's all better if Austria is also best rated by these institutions and not bad. We are much better than other countries, and if you read the ORF's teletext today, you'll see that even the Greeks are currently voting on the budget. And what's going on there, you know that. You know there must be pay cuts and mass redundancies on the agenda. Or look at Portugal! There, the conditions are similar. I spoke to some colleagues about the Socialist Party from Greece and Portugal. They say: We don't wish you what's going on with us! And one reason, a Portuguese colleague told me, is that the structure of Portugal has fallen asleep. It has not been built up an industry, but it has always been service and partly cheap production. I think we also need to break a lance for our industry, which really keeps Austrian economic power alive. I do not think so if there are any major arguments against industry here. The industries, especially the industries, are also responsible for exports. They also employ very many suppliers, small and medium-sized enterprises, which in turn secure jobs. I think we should leave the church in the village. Above all, the municipalities are happy when industrial enterprises are located there because they can also obtain part of their taxes, in the form of municipal taxes. It's good that we have a thriving economy. I don't think of it, either, if there's debt allocations now: The evil churches, and: What the mayors do! Ladies and gentlemen, I have been mayor for a long time and know how difficult this task is, but also responsible. People are measured every day by what happens. I don't think anyone or just the least about the cord, but that the whole structure has run out of the row, that a new financial balance has to be made and, of course, reforms are necessary – which are being made – cooperations. I do not think it is necessary to talk about the compulsions of communities, but they should do so voluntarily if they wish. But cooperation and reforms are very appropriate, ladies and gentlemen. I'll end up with a four-liner. I am convinced that the Constitutional Complaint will be rejected because of the late submission of the budget. That's already. has been established by many constitutional lawyers, except one or two, which is always seen on television, who say that the late submission is constitutionally questionable. I would say the following: Green and orange, so you hear say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office Much more, however, in these days Let them complain about their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49315	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49336	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Members of the Federal Government! A few words on flight charges and on standard consumption. For us, a possible increase in car taxes, which everyone would have taken, did not come into question, but we consider the NOVA increase to be more ecologically effective and just by a surcharge for cars that drag over 180 grams of CO2 into the environment. In reality, only a very small segment of car buyers is hit, especially those who prefer large, expensive and PS-strong vehicles. It is not an intervention in existing approvals, but it applies to new cars. That's important. Not affected are families that need larger cars, but smaller engine space. For example, about 80 per cent of current approvals are below the 160 grams limit and only 1.8 per cent over 220 grams. Dealers and importers naturally have no joy. But if you can afford cars of €80 000, for which this increase does not really fall into the weight. Nevertheless, this levy will bring about €55 million for the budget starting in 2012 when it is fully seized. It is similar in the case of flight charges. It is intended to counteract tax preferences for air transport and to provide an incentive for environmentally sound behaviour. The charge is between 8 € for short distances and 35 € for long distances. Considering the cost of an entire trip, this tax is marginal – for private people as well as for business travelers. But here too, if it is fully seized, this tax will bring about €90 million per year from 2012 onwards. We believe that both measures, ladies and gentlemen, have positive distribution effects and are affected by groups of people and consumers, to whom these taxes are quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49374	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49395	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Gentlemen of the Federal Government! Budget talks, budget negotiations are always an exciting time, and it is probably an irony of fate that we have just been able to read in the media today that the recording protocols of telephone calls by Karl-Heinz Grasser, Meischberger and Co. have seen the light of the public. I hope that we are all aware here that we too, not only the former high representatives of this House, are giving us a disastrous picture. There is no wonder that there have already been the first angry protests from the population. I'm probably not the only one here who got dozens of emails and text messages today, with the Grundtenor: What's the matter with you guys in Vienna? And it is spoken of by political show and mutual contamination. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I have learned to merge, to stop the separation and to put the binding in the foreground. It's a mayor's job to discuss and then decide, but we've also learned that we're going apart as friends. However, it is also the responsibility of the federal policy to close tombs rather than draw new ones or to enlarge them. Back to the budget. . Today we also have the opportunity to adopt a very social, economically balanced budget, thus preventing this social tendency, which is now once again, namely another drifting away from the poor and the rich. Ladies and gentlemen, I have three wishes: I wish the Austrian population that the economy recovers very quickly. I personally wish Karl-Heinz Grasser were charged. And I wish you personal health and a contemplative Christmas.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49437	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49459	Mr President. Government members! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that Austria has managed the crisis better than other countries. We can measure this by the situation of the economy, by the situation of the workers, and we have many other comparisons. The 2011 budget will be a good basis to be able to resist us well again at this time of crisis, in which we are no doubt. Yes, it's a savings package that has nothing to distribute and that also brings loads. But as far as the burden is concerned, it is to be said that these are considerably lower in comparison to other countries, and I believe that the government can also be found to have tried to distribute the burden. Yes, there are wishes open, and they will undoubtedly remain on the agenda for us. However, we will not be able to solve these problems with the organisation of demonstrations. Yes, we want to continue to fight for a fairer distribution, and I am also convinced that this budget is a good start to a fair distribution. We have experienced that, in particular, very comprehensive criticism has been given by the Liberal Group and the BZÖ. I can tell the two political groups that they were also in the government and that they were, for example, those who really took 10 percent away from the pensioners, that they were the ones that the little ones did, for the benefit of the rich! – and what is particularly dramatic is that they have silvered up the wealth of the state. They have thrown away the family silver produced by the diligent women and men in Austria irrevocably. That is why, I believe, they are most critical of all. Last comment: We must always note that, above all, the opposition operates with self-constructed arguments, with half-truths, that the and are then dramatised. I'm telling you, that's what happens: They influence the population, they influence the mood negative. And no one can believe that cars or houses cannot burn in Austria too, and if it comes to it, then you will also have to answer for that. In any event, we believe that this budget is an acceptable response to the time ahead, and we will therefore be happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49507	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49528	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After three days of intensive discussions here in the High House and after a few days of committee deliberations, only the finding remains that Red and Black want to continue and continue this misguided path – to the detriment of Austria, to the detriment of the Austrian population, but above all to the harm of many families, many caregivers in our country and the socially weak in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They don't think in alternatives. You are not thinking of the future of our country, but, Minister of Finance, you are tricking and deceiving wherever you can. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if you look at that – of course! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] That reminds of a hat game. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm not a Carinthian!]] You know the hat games? You don't have to be a Carinthian, that can be much better for Lower Austrians. [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] Your uncle is making us think of how to hide debts. But you're on the best way to surpass your uncle, because under every hat, billions hide again. You know we have a debt mountain, which is not €200 billion but € 260 billion. You know that Eurostat is now dealing with this and is busy helping you so to speak, because you do not seem to be providing PISA-suitable services. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, € 260 billion is this debt, including the public debt debt, the ASFINAG debt, the BIG debt and the debt that the municipalities and the countries are still making. You know that with this financial compensation you also help to hide the debt in the countries and in the communities so that you can be quite good at federal level. But this is where Eurostat will take a line through the bill. - That's the trick number one. The trick number two, which we were able to reveal in the course of the budget consultations, is even worse, ladies and gentlemen, namely that you do not repay the loans to that extent as your predecessors, but that you make cuts in the order of €2.5 billion in the case of debt reduction, credit repayments and thus also a lower budget deficit. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's a trick, ladies and gentlemen. In this shamelessness, no finance minister has dared in the past. This reminds me very much of Greece when it comes to such trickery. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go, please!]] This is Greece, ladies and gentlemen. Let's remember: Greece has delivered completely wrong figures for many years to the European Union. Now, Minister of Finance Pröll is beginning to bring the Austrians behind the light, but also to trick and deceive the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In reality, this is a purely budget cosmetic, so that you do not stand in the way of this budget, as it will actually be, but if you get a review from the Court of Auditors in one or two years. Then many will open their eyes. Then you will notice that we are in a budgetary death spiral that is constantly turning downwards. They are therefore continuing to shift the burden to the future that the next generations will have to pay. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Koralm!]] Finally stop talking and argue that you are the party looking at the debt and the next generations! There has never been a finance minister in the Second Republic who is responsible for such a high debt mountain as you, Mr Finanzminister, Mr Bankenminister Pröll! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With this budget for 2011, you have completely missed the opportunities. You have not taken advantage of the opportunities you would have had. You would have had the opportunity, together with the countries, with the public institutions, to address in one end the reforms in the field of education, administration, health policy, ladies and gentlemen! Now it would have been time to ensure a massive understanding of the need to take a reform course. If we are serious about the future of our country, if we are serious about youth, with the next generations, then we are not spared ourselves from making a modern service state out of Austria with this difficult administrative equipment, which can also be financed for the next generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No, you go exactly the opposite way of tax increases and reductions in aid and subsidies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you must have the banks, you must have the ÖBB and you must have the European Union, or the reform countries of the European Union, and those who are in marode financial difficulties. – All this is to the detriment of the families, all of which are at the expense of the needy and the weaker in our country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's reality. That is what remains at the end of this budget debate. You should – and this should perhaps be a memorable exercise for you – step in front of the mirror and ask yourself if In view of this budget, which you are presenting here, you still have a conscience at all. For you cannot be serious that you are now asking all those who can't do anything for this crisis in which the whole European Union is located. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Bad speech!]] – No, that’s not a bad speech, Minister of Finance, that’s – quite simply – the reality! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] People feel that way too. They do not understand that they are asked to cash out, just because the rulers in our country have still not understood the function and task they actually have to fulfil. That's reality. You don't understand why politics allows such a huge, bloated, bureaucratic administration state that is no longer eligible for funding, which you can no longer ‘above’, which you can no longer move, because you have only an interest, namely that your black officials in our state will continue to be fed over the next generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the real reality before which we stand and fear, ladies and gentlemen. In the future, if we want to be competitive, we need initiatives to promote families, to promote education and money for research, development and innovation. Only on these three pillars is the future of our country. You should be aware of that. And you are doing cuts right there – at the disadvantage of the economic location and the competitiveness of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let's look at the situation beyond the edge of the plate! Look You go beyond Vienna and Lower Austria! Look beyond the European Union! Draw on global development! If we continue to do so in Europe, this will lead to a struggle for prosperity – not a struggle for prosperity, but a struggle for prosperity. The distribution of wealth within the European Union will cost us, if you continue, many, many billions of euros. And this political debate will no longer take place in Parliament, but on the streets, if you do not finally come to the House to reason and make the right decision, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria is developing more and more towards the high tax region. You know very well, even if you're always talking about this: With 44 percent tax and tax ratio, we are European champions, but soon we are also in debt development and debt. Yes, how do you want to pay off the debt in the future if we are already on the ceiling with the tax burden? What measures do you have to get the budget under control? There is no other way than finally to take up the reforms, to make Austria a modern service state, to reduce bureaucracy and, above all, to relieve the population, so that performance can be again worthwhile and we can be proud of our country again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e49701	There are no more words available to me. The debate is closed. Since I am signaled by the political groups that the Croquis could already be dealt with, we will come to the votes on the Federal Finance Act 2011 and its investments. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and others. First of all, I will vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act, as amended by the Committee's report, in accordance with the classification of the proposed amendment. I shall put to the vote the motions for resolutions tabled on the draft federal financial law in 2011 following the third reading in the order of submission. We come to the vote on Appendix I – Federal Preview 2011 in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who give their approval to this House to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on Appendix II – Staff Offices – gross representation as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. We therefore proceed to the vote on Appendix III – Financing, Monetary Exchange Agreements – gross representation as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on Appendix IV – Staff Plan, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this in order to have an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we reach the vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2011. Mr Bucher, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which has a title change on the subject. First of all, I shall vote on this amendment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2011 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. [[The Greens shall keep green posters with the title “No” in height.]] - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2011 budget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Clash only to the loads! There's still applause on the family loads!]] We are now entering a series of votes on the resolutions tabled to the 2011 Federal Finance Act. The vote will take place in the order in which the request is submitted, taking into account the name of the vote. Debates of the European Parliament Stefan, colleagues on suspension of sessions at the Constitutional Court. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – The request is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, on their own right of service and remuneration for the police and the German army. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the increase in support for women's houses. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mayerhofer, colleagues, on better remuneration for executives in basic police training. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The request is rejected. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution by Mrs Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, on discharge and improvement of the executive. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a motion for a resolution on the removal of diplomatic privileges within the European Union. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner, colleagues, on savings measures in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs is to be voted on. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. I shall bring the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues on budgetary safeguards for a public debate on Austrian development cooperation to vote. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, a resolution on development cooperation: Budget path and formable bilateral expenditure as legally compulsory expenditure. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The Members of Parliament, Dr Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on the payment of radio charges for prisoners by taxpayers. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – The request is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on the necessary increase in the E 2a and E 2b planning centres for executives in the judicial service. If you're for that, I'll ask for your sign. – The request is rejected. On the other hand, there is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, colleagues and colleagues on no further budget cuts in the area of militia. If you support this, I'll ask for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues on the future of the Austrian Federal Army. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members Kickl, colleagues and others have tabled a resolution extending the transitional periods for opening the Austrian labour market to new EU Member States. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – The request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Dolinschek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for a resolution on comprehensive improvements in the field of disabled people. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on comprehensive improvements in the care sector. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jarmer, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to increasing the tax on compensation to an industry-wide minimum content. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. The Members of Parliament have tabled a motion for a resolution on the promotion of VAT on the acquisition of motor vehicles by the disabled. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues, on the aliquotation of the first pension adjustment. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of Parliament, Dr Spadiut, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on the immediate announcement of the agreement pursuant to Article 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of health care for the purpose of a comprehensive hospital reform. If you support this request, I would ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Vock, colleagues on tax deductibility of donations for animal and environmental protection. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – The request is rejected. There is a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on Allianz für Bildung – “With ideological suffrages, with real reforms!” If you support this, I'll ask you for a sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Inlanders, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on increasing the basic fees for federal museums and theatres. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues, on the abolition of the 10-percent limit on models of the 'New Secondary School' and on the transfer of school tests to the general school system. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Petzner, colleagues, on the reorganisation concept for the anatomical-pathological institute. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. On the ground, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a resolution on the introduction of a subsidy transparency database in the fields of art and culture. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, on measures to increase the reading skills of Austrian students. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – The request is rejected. A motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the evaluation of the “House of History” project. I ask for a sign if I agree. – The request is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If you support this, I ask you for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues and others on secondary school reform. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues on the creation of a medical university in Linz. The vote has been taken on this subject. This desire is sufficiently supported, so we are doing so. I have the right to read the procedure for all the votes of this House: The ballots to be used are in the pults, bear the name of the deputies as well as the name “Yes” – these are the grey polls – or “No” – which are the pink ones. Only those official ballots may be used. Members are called on to put the vote in the urn provided. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a medical university in Linz vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against to throw 'No' vote in the urn. I now ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50052	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. I would ask you not to go too far, because after the numeration the vote continues.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50093	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 177, of which 70 ‘Yes’ votes, ‘No’ votes 107. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a medical university in Linz, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. This also applies to all the following national votes. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. With ‘No’, MEPs voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50284	I ask you to take the seats. We still have a few motions for resolutions to deal with. Deputies Mag. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on the increase in R & D resources to ensure the 3-percent R&D quota. Whoever supports this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled a resolution on ‘UNI-BONUS’ and ‘UNI-Card’ – acute programme for universities. If you support this, I'll ask for a sign. – That is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Graf, colleagues on Uni-Millarde by 2015. If you support this, I'll ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on 'the country of origin principle'. Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known, so I don't need to read it anymore. I ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50369	The vote will end. I interrupt the vote-counting session.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50409	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 180, of which 56 ‘Yes’ votes, ‘No’ voices 124. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues on ‘the country of origin principle’ is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Deimek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grauburd, Graf, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder; Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Honey, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walnuts, windbühler-suushill, winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Bucher; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz; Haberzettl, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50591	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues on the construction of the Linzer Westringen as part of an overall infrastructure strategy for Austria. Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. I ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50633	The vote has ended. I'm just interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50667	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 177; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 54, No votes: 123. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and colleagues on the construction of the Linzer Westringen in the course of an overall infrastructure strategy for Austria, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windwood, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz, Brunner; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, korun, koßl, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Moser, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Walser, Wenninger, Windbüchler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöginger; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e50855	Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and others have also tabled a resolution on the introduction of an Austrian ticket. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If you support this, I'll ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues on the maintenance of the direct train link between the capitals of the country. If you support this, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, on no deterioration in the promotion of transport for countries and municipalities. If you support this, I ask for an appropriate sign. – The request is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Moser, colleagues, on the contract template for the Management Board's contracts. If you support this, I'll ask you for a sign. – The request is rejected. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Matznetter, colleagues, on 'Mobility promotion in connection with long-term foreign activity'. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. (E 139.) Deputies Mag. Musiol, colleagues and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on the continuation of the federal grant for the extension of childcare. If you support this, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Musiol, colleagues and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on the maintenance of the previous amount of the multi-child supplement. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Members of the Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, have a motion for a resolution on the maintenance of the 13th century. Family aid. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the adaptation of family support for EU/EEA citizens. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues, tabled a motion for a resolution on the reduction in family allowances for students. If you agree, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues, on the increase in energy research expenditure to € 120 million. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on SOS Family – performance and justice stands for the vote. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, colleagues and colleagues on the pooling of research activities. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, colleague and colleagues on the annual valorization of family benefits. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the continuation of the agreement under Rule 15a B-VG on the extension of the institutional provision of childcare services and the introduction of mandatory early linguistic support in institutional childcare facilities in 2011. I'll look for your sign when I'm agreed. – The request is rejected. Mr Markowitz, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on the urgent need for an increase in Austria's budget. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the introduction of a ceiling for agricultural and forestry holdings at €50 000 per holding per year from the EU and Austria's agricultural budget. I'll look for your sign when I'm agreed. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, on the increase in the rates of contributions to farmers' social security. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. Members of the Huber, ladies and gentlemen have tabled a motion for a resolution on compensation for the federal cuts in the field of rural development. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues, on the consideration of a financial compensation for our farmers for the loss of already paid milk quotas in the BFG 2011. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote will also be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues, on the payment of grants to all farms by the end of 2010. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Widmann, colleagues and others have tabled a resolution on non-profit-making credit model for thermal rehabilitation. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lugar, colleagues in relation to standard consumption of electrical appliances. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Winter, ladies and gentlemen, on the halving of VAT on energy from renewable domestic resources. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Grastaur, colleagues on the discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises and the increase in the attractiveness of the economic location. Whoever supports this, I ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, colleagues, on short-term clear tax relief and a medium-term comprehensive tax reform within the meaning of the BZÖ Flat Tax tax model. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the implementation of the Court of Auditors' proposals on administrative reform and red tape. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If you're for that, I'll ask for your sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). If you're for that, I'll ask for your sign. – The request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, colleagues, on the extension of the § 113h Wage Act. If you're for that, I'll ask you for your sign. – The request is rejected. [[18:53:26]] Reading of part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e51293	I also have the written request of 20 Members, the proposed version of the official protocol of the 91. Meeting of the National Council on the agenda item Federal Finance Act 2011 and Annexes to be read so that it is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This will enable immediate decision-making. It is therefore being done in this way. The President-in-Office of the Council is reading the Official Protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e51317	‘TO point 1: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (980 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2011, Federal Finance Act 2011, BFG 2011 and Appendices (1044). General debate Headings 0 and 1: Law and security, division 01: President's office, division 02: Federal legislation, breakdown 03: Constitutional Court, Division 04: Administrative Court, Division 05: Public Prosecutor's Office, Division 06: Court of Auditors: Subdivision 10: Federal Chancellery Deputies Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA. Mr Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/2 EA. Mr Zanger, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Mr Gartlgruber, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/4 EA). Heading 11: Internals Mr Mayerhofer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/5 EA). Mr Herbert, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/6 EA). Heading 12: Externals Mr Hübner, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/7 EA). Mr Hübner, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/8 EA). Deputies Mag. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/9 EA). Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Doc. 1/10 EA). Subdivision 13: Justice Members Dr. Rosenkranz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/11 EA). Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lausch, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/12 EA). Subdivision 14: Military Affairs and Sport Mr Podgorschek, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/13 EA). Mr Kunasek, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/14 EA). Adjournment of the session at 04.17 p.m. Continued the interrupted meeting on 21 March. ==References== Heading 2: Work, social affairs, health and family Subdivision 20: Labour, subheading 21: Social and consumer protection, breakdown 22: Social security Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/15 EA. Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/16 EA. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/17 EA). Mr Dolinschek, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/18 EA). Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/19 EA). Deputies Mag. Mr Jarmer, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/20 EA. Mr Gartlgruber, Members of Parliament, tabled the resolution Supplement 1/21 EA. Mr Neubauer, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/22) EA. Subdivision 24: Health Mrs Spadiut, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/23 EA. Mr Vock, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/24) EA. Heading 3: Education, research, art and culture Subdivision 30: Education, art and culture Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/25) EA. Deputies Mag. On the ground, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/27 EA). Mr Petzner, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/28 EA. Deputies Mag. On the ground, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/29 EA). Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/30 EA). Mr Markowitz, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/31 EA). Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/32 EA). Mr Rosenkranz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/33 EA). Subdivision 31: Science and research Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/34 EA). Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/1. Deputies Mag. Rainer Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/35 EA). Deputies Mag. Rainer Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/36 EA). Deputies Mag. Mr Graf, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/37 EA). Deputies Mag. Mr Graf, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/38 EA). Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/2. Heading 4: Economy, infrastructure and the environment Heading 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) Subdivision 41: Transport, innovation and technology Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/39 EA). Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/40 EA. Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/41 EA). Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/42 EA. Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/43 EA). Mr Moser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/44 EA). Adjournment of the meeting at 20.58 p.m. Continued the interrupted meeting on 22. ==References== Heading 4 (Economic, Infrastructure and the Environment) (continued) UG 25: Family and Youth UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy Deputies Peter Haubner, Dr. Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/45 EA. Deputies Mag. Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/46 EA. Deputies Mag. Musiol, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/47 EA). Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/48 EA). Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/49 EA). Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/50 EA). Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/51 EA). Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/52 EA). Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the amendment to Supplement 1/53. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/54 EA. Mr Schenk, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/55 EA). Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/56 EA). Mr Markowitz, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/57 EA). UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management UG 43: Environment Mr Jannach, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/58 EA). Mr Jannach, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/59 EA). There is a request from 20 Members for a nameary vote, Supplement 1/3, to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/49 EA. Mr Huber, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/60 EA). Mr Jannach, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/61 EA). Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues, tabled the resolution Supplement 1/62 EA. Deputies Mag. Rainer Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/63 EA). Deputies Ing. Lugar, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/64 EA). The Members of Parliament Dr. Winter, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/65 EA). Heading 5 (Cash and interest rates) UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: financing, exchange-rate contracts and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution is set out in Annex 1/66 EA. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/67 EA) which is set out in the key points. The President shall have the power, in accordance with section 55, para. 3 in conjunction with § 53 para. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/68 EA) which is set out in the key points. The President shall have the power, in accordance with section 55, para. 3 in conjunction with § 53 para. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Mr Zanger, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/69 EA). Mr Podgorschek, Members of Parliament, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/70 EA). Mr Podgorschek, Members of Parliament, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/71 EA). Votes. The amendment Annex 1/53 is hereby rejected. The draft Bundesfinanzgesetz for 2011 and its Appendices I Federal Estimate 2011 including overall overview, Appendices Ia to Ic and Appendices II to IV shall be in accordance with the Committee's request in 1044 d.B. adopted by a majority vote in the second and third readings. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected.” – Now it is going from the beginning again, I still have to ask for a little more patience. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] 'The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/2 EA, is rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/3 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/4 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/7 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/8 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/9 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution is rejected by 1/10 EA. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/11 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/12 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/13 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/14 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/15 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/16 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/17 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/18 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/19 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/20 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Addenda 1/21 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/22 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/23 EA, is rejected. The motion for a resolution Addenda 1/24 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/25 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Addenda 1/26 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Addenda 1/27 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Addenda 1/28 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Addenda 1/29 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/30 EA is rejected.” – It does not help. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] 'The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/31 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/32 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/33 EA is hereby rejected.’ [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] 'The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/34 EA will be put to the vote in a nominal vote: 177, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 70, ‘No’ votes: 107 – rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/35 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/36 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/37 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/38 EA will be put to the vote in a nominal vote: 180, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 56, ‘No’ votes: 124 – rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/39 EA will be put to the vote in a nominal vote: 177, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 54, ‘No’ votes: 123 – rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/40 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/41 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/42 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/43 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/44 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/45 EA was adopted. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/46 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/47 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/48 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/49 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/50 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/51 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/52 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/54 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/55 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/56 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/57 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/58 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/59 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/60 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/61 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/62 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/63 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/64 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/65 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/66 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/67 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/68 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/69 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/70 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/71 EA is hereby rejected. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on this item on the agenda (Annex D).’ The reading is thus over. Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? – That's not the case. The corresponding parts of the Official Protocol shall therefore apply in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:09:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00091_d8e52004	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications were made for 1370/A(E) to 1390/A(E). Question No 7152/J to 7325/J has also been received, and Question No 53/JPR by Mr Brosz has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 7.09 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
