ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e1950	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. Deputies Donabauer, Großruck, Ing. Hofer, Neubauer, Ölllinger, Windbüchler-Souschill and Dr. Spadiut. [[13:00:46]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e1981	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2290	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 6 and 10 to 13 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2311	Let's go into the agenda. According to § 57 para. 3nd paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, after consulting the Presidency, I propose the following form and duration of the debate on the entire agenda: SPÖ and ÖVP per 56 minutes, FPÖ 50 minutes, Green 44 minutes, BZÖ 42 minutes, speaking time of government members in total 30 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of these proposals to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:01:59]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the bill of the Federal Council (691 d.a.) of 6. May 2010 on a Federal Constitutional Act which amends the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Constitutional Act to implement the Treaty of Lisbon, which amends specific provisions for re-evaluating the distribution of mandates to be awarded by the Federal Election Authority after the election of the members of the European Parliament in 2009 (Lisbon-Beglitnovelle), and on the Request 978/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, Members of the Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Constitutional Act to implement the Treaty of Lisbon, which amends specific provisions for re-evaluating the distribution of mandates to be awarded by the Federal Election Authority after the election of the members of the European Parliament in 2009 (Lisbon-Beglitnovelle) (827 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1155/A by Dr Martin Strutz, Dr. Johannes Hübner, on the conduct of a popular survey in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG on the implementation of the participation planned by the Federal Government in the European financial assistance package for Greece (787 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2381	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I warmly welcome the new President of the Federal Council Martin Preineder, who took part in the first round. He took over his office here at the gallery. It is also matters of the Federal Council today. [[General condolences.]] First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2417	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is about the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty, and it is no secret that we have rejected it and that Austria should not participate in it and should not agree to it. On the other hand, we have spoken out and are still of the opinion that this path is the wrong one, because it sets out the statehood, a way that we have always rejected, because there is still an organisation that cannot be called democratic, a parliament that does not have the right to take legislative initiatives. All these points together make a clear statement here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We believe that we cannot deliver to the European Union in such a way that such structures exist. From this point of view, it can be understood that in principle we are also opposed to the way in which the implementation is being carried out here. For if there is already the Lisbon Treaty in this form and if this criticism exists by us, then we believe that the implementation of the Treaty must take place in the maximum decisive form within the country. It didn't happen. On the individual points: Subsidiarity fraud or complaint is a farce. We have already found that out. This is essentially a job creation for Parliaments, because it is hardly expected that a third of all parliaments will object to a vote or 55 percent. Only under these conditions does the Commission have to respond at all. Here we see, although Parliaments are being set in motion and they will feel that they are involved in a democratic process, but in reality nothing will look out. So this is a farce, a job creation, but it is a big story, we have now reached democracy and we can participate democratically. - We know it's not. In our view, the implementation of the way in which country interests are represented in Austria is also not the right way. It's the Federal Council of the Institute that appears here. However, we believe that countries themselves are much better represented by country interests. We know exactly how the Federal Council is finally voting, according to party interests, that the parties make decisions on the basis of federal interests as well as in the National Council. Therefore, it would be better if the land days had had the opportunity – several together but anyway – to represent the interests of the country and to act together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another problem is the bridge clause, i.e. the possibility of starting from the need for unanimity at the level of the European Union and achieving a majority. With such a restriction, even now, the Austrian statehood, which no longer has the opportunity to really contradict the relevant point, we believe that a referendum would be the right way and not a vote in Parliament. This is also a criticism of why we do not want to go along with this. Finally, the lack of contribution and Parliament's limited capacity to participate in the appointment of positions at European level: We have called for a member of the European Court of Auditors to have at least a right of nomination for all the parties represented in the main committee, so that the rights of the other parties are guaranteed, and not to appoint and nominate the government again. That too is a point where democracy would have been asked where one should start at the lower level. If you go through it from below, then democracy is getting thinner and the representation of the population is in fact becoming more and more insignificant. All of this is an expression of this Lisbon Treaty and therefore also of its implementation, and we reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2477	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I put the clock, as desired, at 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2499	Madam President. High house! I have listened very carefully to the statements made by my previous speaker. Of course, it depends on how to deal with these new possibilities. It is not intended to be an employment therapy, but it is an attempt to improve the information between national parliaments in networking, to work together more so that the European Parliament is not now misunderstandable as the Parliament of the national parliaments, but rather to try to ensure that national parliaments are better integrated into the legislative process at European level. There is also a part of the initiative that there should be European citizens' initiatives at the plebiscitary level, but that can then be incorporated into a possible legislative process through the European Parliament either through the Commission in a proposal – which is still not really debated and is not yet on the table – but at all times via the European Parliament. - That's the second level. There is also the level of complaint and complaint when competence is exceeded, where national parliaments can then initiate a process which ends at the end of the day with a reluctance or even a complaint if the corresponding quorum is fulfilled. This is without prejudice to Parliament's participation rights in EU matters, where there is the possibility that the competent member of the Federal Government will be given a mandate for the negotiations in Brussels. So we are trying here to improve the part of the work in the overall legislative process, namely that at national level, the national parliaments have more opportunities and the national parliaments are finally starting to coordinate with each other and to build a better information network. I think this is very positive, especially – and I do not now understand the position of the liberals – when it is a strengthening of the national parliaments. I've always believed that the liberals actually want it. Now they don't want that. There are still speakers who may be more concrete about this. But the whole thing is supposed to have one more aspect: At the end of the year, we would like to adopt an information law that also wants to improve and strengthen access to information in the European Union to the legislative process. And now to the most important point: You know, there is a principle of unanimity. If the principle of unanimity is to become a qualified majority within the European Union, then of course there must be a process within the Austrian Parliament, where this is subject to in-depth consultation and where, before such a decision-making at European level, there must be an information here, and only then the Austrian member of the government can give a two-thirds majority in the Council any agreement. So, too, we have built in an aspect that makes it possible for the national Parliament to have very, very strong rights and thus to be able to take a very, very strong position. Therefore, I must say in summary that we – and I would like to thank the parties that have negotiated here in the House; I believe that we can assume that this will be decided by a very good majority here too; this is a matter that needs a qualified quota – has conducted very good negotiations, giving us the chance to improve the position of national parliaments. Otherwise, I hope – and this is added – that both the process of democratisation continues within the European Union and the process of establishing rules to ensure that such a financial crisis is not repeated through genuinely efficient financial market control. This does not look like it at the moment, but we must make every effort to ensure that at the end of the day the decision will be taken at European level. Although it has not been possible globally, it should be at EU level. Similarly, the introduction of the transaction tax and many other points that are so important that they are decided at least in the European Union. In this overall approach, I believe, there is the possibility of exercising this influence at the level of the Council, the European Parliament, the Commission and the new plebiscitary elements. If, for example, there is a European citizen initiative for a transaction tax, for example, awareness could also be created, as well as the necessary support and pressure to enforce it in the final effect. Then, I think, you can also reduce the distance that is available in the population vis-à-vis the European Union and increase identification. But all actors must make a contribution to this and also note that, if there has been criticism, it has in many cases been quite justified. With these new decisions, foundations and structures, we are trying to create the legal basis for greater involvement as a national Parliament. This will also have an impact on policy. And that is why I hope that this will be the great majority we hope for today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2563	Mr Hübner has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2584	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As Mr Cap has just asked why we are opposed to strengthening the national parliaments, although we are always in favour of this, I do not want to abstain from the answer. Of course, we are not opposed to strengthening the national parliaments, but we are against an eye-catching – in well-informed Vienna. In other words, we are opposed to competences that are not competences, but rather to the fact that Parliaments are employed and feel that they are important. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The core of this sham competence, as Mr Stefan has so well formulated, is the so-called subsidiarity test. This is the epitome of an eye eraser, but of an expensive eye eraser. Subsidiarity examinations are carried out in all 27 Member States. Parliaments have created their own apparatus and organs everywhere, and a considerable effort is being made everywhere, because a huge number of laws come to the examination of subsidiarity. And what does subsidiarity test mean? – This means that Parliaments can write a letter to Brussels. Even if all 27 parliaments, which is almost excluded, write a negative letter to the reader and believe that in this case subsidiarity was violated, you know what happens then? . Then the act, i.e. the bill, has to be returned to the Commission again, and they then decide whether they are the law plan is either adhering to or adhering to it. If she insists on it, then his way goes. We do not want such “competence” in the national parliaments, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are too expensive for the public to write to the reader. And I believe that this has made the essential argument for the subsidiarity review on our part. There are few other competences or other reasons for the constitutional change, because what is now coming into place is the procedure for the award of mandates to government representatives for the Council. It's just a little modified. But there's no legal extension. Summary: We have a constitutional change here for nothing, we are allowed to blow empty air, let the voters, the people who finance us convey the feeling, we do something, but actually do nothing. We therefore have a clear no on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2645	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2666	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Hübner, I'll give you the right to: I would also be sorry for writing letters of readers that time would be too precious for me. There are others much more popular, as the history of time has shown. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But I believe that we can agree in one: that democratic will-building is difficult, of course also at European level. What we are producing here in order to communicate with each other, whether different opinions exist, on paper, is not very little either. And, of course, that this is potential at the European level is a matter of course. I understand the basic attitude, if a group is against Europe, many reservations that it cannot agree that it says I am not starting with it, but I appreciate your participation in, for example, the visits we have made to the parliaments of the neighbouring countries, which we are doing in the context of COSAC meetings, and your contribution to extremely positive – critical, not question, but quite positive. And I believe that from this basic point of view, what we are deciding today is a very important further step in the new role of national parliaments. The founding fathers – at the time they were exclusively fathers – have already carried out decades ago when they were founded that Europe cannot be created in one day. So it is not a finished product – and it is important to continue working on it. I think that what is given here in a subsidiary way may be a little cumbersome. But if the subsidiarity reports – and I am now simplifying – can prevent the laws that arise, the Commission's will formations, if the subsidiarity action can already bring down decided, if anything cumbersome, admittedly, then, I believe, the National Council and the Federal Council have a completely new, important task, which I do not want to equate with a cheap employment policy. This is not, I believe, the responsibility we have with Austrians towards Europe. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] It is about particularly strong rights of participation for Parliament, such as the application of the bridge clause, where unanimity is no longer required to provide, at least, a qualified majority with two thirds. This is also a major strengthening of the involvement of national parliaments. We have negotiated very positively here – four political groups have negotiated very intensively with each other – what I would like to thank for. Today's step is an important step, but we have also agreed to formulate the information law, which we have in the pipeline, as it were, by the end of the year accordingly, where the information obligation of the members of the Federal Government to the Parliament is much more determined in EU issues – an intensification of this reporting obligation and also in written form. Of course, there will have to be the establishment of an EU database, not a question, in the abundance of the material, very user-friendly. And the already highly qualified submissions and accompaniments of the Ministries will also be able to gain correspondingly in substance. We will also change and set out a number of points in the Rules of Procedure in this respect, too. Not only will the EU Subcommittee, the main committee, or the plenary session deal with these issues, but Europe's topics will also be explicitly discussed in the expert committees. There are, for example, very specific ideas in the current debate as to how we will discuss these European initiatives here in the House. There is no doubt about the density of the session. We have already agreed on this in the EU Subcommittee and set up a permanent calendar of meetings by the end of the year in order to meet the fullness of the challenges. Mr Hübner, on bilateral visits – I remember Budapest, Prague, Pressburg, Liège – the wish of the parliaments of these countries was expressed to us after cooperation, because we already have some experience. We have already managed and experienced many things which we are now throwing in the form of law, but which we want to put into the Rules of Procedure in the future, not in the right-wing space, but in good faith. Only recently did the Hungarian ambassador ask again: How do you do this in Austria, you obviously already have much more experience?- Oh, my God! – So the neighbours are also interested in cooperations that Klubobmann Cap has already carried out today. Madam President, in her speech today on the occasion of Mr President-in-Office's fishing, the President pointed out that what we will decide today on these agenda items makes the EU more democratic. That is true, but not just that, because the subsidiary participation of national parliaments also gives the opportunity to make Europe and its subjects more experienceable to the people. We, who are committed to this, want to see it – and this is an important step forward today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2754	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2778	Madam President. I would like to thank Mr Neugebauer for his material information on what we are deciding here today. This makes it possible for me to keep my comments on the so-called technical-jurist issues very short. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to stress that I consider this to be a rather elegant transposition of the Lisbon Treaty into national laws, to the constitutional legislation. Our special thanks for this is due to the affected staff, speakers of the clubs or the Parliamentary Directorate. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also say this because I was very interested in matter, but I was also very grateful for being able to delegate the negotiation of legal fines to others. On our side – I would like this to be in the Minutes – these were primarily Mrs. Dr. Marlies Meyer and Dr. Peter Steyrer, but pars pro toto, the same applies to all the others who worked on it. At that time, when I was in Berlin, I developed a sense for the first time that mathematicians, if they show evidence, not only consider it important that he is right, but that he also has certain aesthetic, elegant facets. And in so far as I believe to be able to claim, through the many years of experience here in Parliament, that this is also true of this text, that it is not somehow congested, but probably considered and very thoughtful. I do not have the time to go into the history of the whole, but one thing should be added to what Mr Neugebauer said or emphasize again: It is about Parliament's rights! I think it is quite an emancipatory act of Parliament, of the National Council and of the Federal Council, which we have in front of us, which is also expressed in a small matter if you want to do so, but which I think is very important: For the first time – my knowledge for the first time – it will enable Parliament, the National Council, to send a communication directly to European institutions. Directly! I have often embarrassingly missed the fact that here in Parliament – we call it so – we cannot accept resolutions, because the request is always: the Federal Chancellor is asked, the Federal Government is called upon. These things are, as it were, always communicated through the Federal Government. - Not there! As a result, the National Council may, directly to the European Parliament, the Commission or the Council, express its opinion on a particular problem. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I am a little surprised – no, it does not surprise me, but I can remind you: There is a delicate provision in this Lisbon Treaty, which you have pointed out tirelessly, the bridge clause or the Passerelle provisions, the possibility of developing the Treaty by decisions of the European Council. And a counterpart must face this at national level: EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free That is precisely what is being regulated, and you reject it by your flat-rate rejection. [[Abg. Strache: Where is a veto right?]] It may be that in practice these provisions will not be of great importance... [[Abg. Strache: There is no veto right!]] – Of course there is a veto right. [[Abg. Where?]] If you don't know, you haven't read what we decide here today. [[Abg. Where?]] I don't wonder. [[Abg. Tight: Cite it! Where?]] – Article 23i(2), for example, contains a veto right, I know it externally. [[Abg. Strache: That's not true at all! That's not true! You didn't read the contract. That's crazy!]] But you did not know yesterday, you will not know today, and you will vote against it from the wrong motives. I'll give it up! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If, as we have at least considered the clubs, we decide on the Information Act during the autumn and then, later or at the same time, negotiate the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, this phase of implementation of the Lisbon Treaty will be provisionally concluded – I say, provisionally. Why provisionally? – It is clear that the need for cooperation between Brussels and Vienna has increased enormously that the need for cooperation between the European institutions, on the one hand, and the national institutions, government and Parliament, on the other, has increased at a breathtaking pace. In contrast, we are putting a certain thing across Europe – how am I supposed to say? – Reform fatigue, Treaty fatigue, after the endless cross-sections over the Convention's draft to the Lisbon Treaty and so on. So there is a certain unhappiness to think about further changes in the Treaty. But, ladies and gentlemen, since autumn 2008 and because of what has happened since then, this view is totally obsolete. This must simply be seen realistically and should not close your eyes to it: the banking crisis at that time, the financial crisis, the threatening global economic crisis, the measures on the national side against the threatening or actually occurring recession, last Greece and the ‘sovereign crisis’ – between quotation marks – in its double meaning, namely, distrust of government debtors as a sovereign crisis, but at the same time, in connection with European monetary union, a life lie is revealed, if you wish, a lazy compromise, namely the illusion that one can have a common currency, but at the same time retain all the rights of sovereignty. This is being led ad absurdly here. After almost one and a half years of crisis, it is clear: That is how we shall not be able to continue, ladies and gentlemen. We must say goodbye to this taboo, to this one – I call it quite consciously – lies of life: that we can maintain full sovereignty rights and have a common currency. The European Central Bank has proved itself very well in these crises. I already have some details to criticize, but she has proved herself generally. But that alone is not enough, that has been dramatically brought to our attention by those, if you wish, pitiless financial markets and their reaction to the shortcomings of the European position. We cannot rely on voluntary coordination, on voluntary cooperation within the framework of monetary union, within the framework of the European Union. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are facing the alternative: to take a break-up of the Union and monetary union passively out of blindness, drowsiness, sluggishness and sluggishness – this possibility is not a fantasy but is real – or to take the next steps towards the United States of Europe. I already know that this is a minority position at the moment. Large majority are not satisfied with the conditions and do not understand the alternative we stand here. But one has to start with advertising for this vision, and I do this with: Either we let sloppy break up this great structure or we take the next steps to the United States of Europe! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I don't see this so much ideological, but it's economic, ladies and gentlemen. And my appeal is also addressed in particular to the colleagues from the BZÖ: Given the fact that economic ties within the Union have increased, it is high time to work on the further political integration of the Union. In the last one and a half years there has been a wealth of examples showing how fast and how strong – and that was not clear to me – economic interdependence has developed and that we do not have appropriate instruments at the European political level. Consider the absurdity: An employee of the cabinet of a small state, in this case Hungary, makes a thoughtless statement, namely that Hungary is as visible as Greece, and within minutes, I am exaggerating little, the spread, i.e. the difference in interest rates, for Austrian bonds in the height! – I miss the time to spread it. This was not a chain reaction of inconsistencies on the part of the financial markets. As far as it is concerned, in Austria, we are not even affected by such an irrelevant remark, as I believe, even by a minister of a neighbouring country. This ghost lasted only a few days – this ghost! - but other things stop. And if we don't talk about it – and not at some point, but starting now – what this future political union should look like, then, I believe, we risk from slutting that what we've built up over 50 years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2930	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e2951	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Today's legislative proposal is based on an initiative of the Federal Council, which I congratulate on the Federal Council. Because at the last moment, he really recognized the opportunity to participate in an expansion of competence and thereby provide the Federal Council with additional tasks, thus extending the existence of this body of federal legislation at least in one area. What we are going to debate and decide today is – and I think that is, so far not so properly transmitted – the biggest B-VG novelle, according to the salary and importance of the Second Republic. This is going down a little after the time of celebration due to Mr President-in-Office's fishing, but it is the largest B-VG-Novelle in the Second Republic! On the issue of participation in the European Union's Common Security and Foreign Policy, my colleague Scheibner will comment, I would like to focus on the three other priorities of this amendment. First of all, Madam President, I should like to say that the two previous speakers of the FPÖ Group of the Party of European Socialists, of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). But that does not mean that they will vote counter to this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a certain abuse in the line of speech that needs to be observed. May. Harald Stefan (F), Dr. Johannes Hübner (F), both times F like false vote, F like false applause – we have seen this today, the first row of the F-group applauds when the President of the Federal Government is distributing censorships, what the Carinthian topography question is about – and then F like false argumenting, we have now experienced that. Some of these can be criticised by the Lisbon Treaty – I am also one of the critics of the Lisbon Treaty – but precisely the points that we are deciding today are an improvement compared to the status quo at least. It's just absurd. No matter how we stand on the Lisbon Treaty, in relation to the status quo, as regards the rights of participation and the rights of this Parliament, this new, regardless of the Lisbon Treaty, is at least an improvement, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the arguments put forward today are wrong. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] The first focus of this novel is – and this has already been made clear by Mr Van der Bellen – that Parliament is the first time – and this is a new development in the relation of state powers to each other, so I say that one of the most important novels of this Second Republic – will be the body of foreign policy; the independent body of foreign policy, because the EU policy is still part of foreign policy. That is why the Foreign Minister is sitting here today. We were not, or have only been, limited to, a self-employed foreign policy body, in fact intended for an external policy, today the subject of which was the subject of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but essentially the matter of internal policy, if the main committee of the National Council should be involved, for example, in the question of the implementation of the State Treaties of Saint Germain and Vienna. Now I say here because I think it is really necessary to correct this today: If the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in his fishing observation speech of the Carinthian state policy does something, that is his right, but he is wrong. Because – ladies and gentlemen, I brought it extra for those who don’t believe it – the topography order cards, BGBl. II No 245/2006, the following is quite clear – there is no mention of any Carinthian state government and no Carinthian head of state, and not at all of the applause of Mr. Strache: “On the basis of § 2 para. 1 Z 2 and § 12 para. 2 of the Volksgruppengesetz (Volksgruppengesetz) – then comes the number of the Federal Law; thus clearly no Carinthia state regulation – “in the version of the rallying” – federal law sheet number anyway – “is decreed in agreement with the main committee of the National Council:” – and then all the bilingual local names, in relation to districts. If you want, I can read to everyone, German and Slovenian; it is only the speaking time for it. Where is the jurisdiction of the Carinthian state policy? If you do not dare to regulate a topography regulation against the Carinthian state policy, then you should not put yourself in high school mentality and align the Carinthian state policy from the Rostra to something, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is not what we expected from a Federal President. If he makes an oath to the constitution and to the laws of this country just a few minutes earlier, then he should not pretend to know these laws afterwards. After all, once again! – the Carinthian state policy and the Carinthian state government are not talking with a syllable in these regulations. But the President of the Federal Republic has acted as if this were just the Carinthian case – and Mr. Strache and Mr. Kickl have applauded it! Ladies and gentlemen, it is exclusively a matter of federal policy, namely the Federal Government in agreement with the main committee of the National Council, which is located in Carinthia on the town boards. If you want the mumm to... – please, once again, that is all reserved for politics, but not for the President of the Federal Republic who played the Constitutional Professor there. [[Abg. Head: The agreement would have happened already!]] This is simple and simply wrong, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that at this point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is to say, the first major change in these novels is that we have our own organ competence in the context of foreign policy with the subsidiarity action and with the subsidiarity complaints. And this is something that Mr Foreign Minister will certainly be pleased about, because now he has a second body that is involved in foreign policy. – You are literally looking at the joy, Mr Minister. Second point: This is the already mentioned Passerelle or Bridge Clause. Ladies and gentlemen, this is of even greater interest, because it is at all constitutional and diplomatic new land. There's something going to be done that I'm excited about how this will affect. Firstly, this means that Parliament is now involved in a kind of dynamic ratification process. That is to say, there will be a new form of dynamic ratification, not in retrospect, but – and that is the second quality increase – in advance already. In other words, if a change to the right of the contract is taking place, we have an anticipatory role to play in the dynamic form at first, we have to take part in the definition of the procedure by this Passerelle clause and we have the opportunity, if a ratification procedure is necessary, to participate as Parliament once again in the usual ratification process known for centuries. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is not an enlargement, if one does not realize that this is a strengthening of Parliament, then I do not know in which area in which committees I have participated. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, once again: With all the scepticism of the Lisbon Treaty, however, what is happening here is in the interest of Parliament. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ Group, there is nothing that is only good or bad. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Except the Catholic Church!]] – Even there are mistakes! Yes, yes, but there you are the last one who is called to take a stand on it, because you don't know that at all! So, next pleite, bad luck and pane! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ as well as cheerfulness with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] One can also say, with an intermediate call, Mr Stefan – not only with a voting process, as you had to answer him as a folder yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, one last point: This is a matter for me, because I did not manage to get Mr Zinggl's contribution to the debate last night. The President-in-Office of the Council will look for me if I can now cut this short in the course of the constitutional debate. Mr Zinggl did the following with regard to colleague Cortolezis-Schlager yesterday: “If Mr Cortolezis-Schlager in the Committee says that the population is being informed falsely by the citizens’ initiatives” – that is, about the Augarten – “because the public prosecutor has not found any procedural defects, then I can only correct them. She informs the people and also Parliament wrong, because – and now the central passage comes – “I have still telephoned with Volksanwälter Stoisits today. Many procedural defects were very likely to have occurred.” – End of the quote, literally. Then he goes out and corrects something I've never claimed – that's exactly what I blamed him –: Zinggl refers to an ORF transmission at once. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, in fact – and I also use the constitutional debate to show this – it is impossible for the citizen to rely on the institution of this Constitution, which is called upon to support his miscarriage, not to be briefed with the former group of this popular attorney or this popular lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: I have not received so many accusations from any group that I alleged to have been party to my activity, which is not the case. The figures speak against and keep each comparison. But if you make yourself an Arbiter elegantiarum, you shouldn't do such things. There's no such thing from me. I have no political group – most recently with my own group! – ever discussed complaints from citizens. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to stress once again: The Constitution writes in Art. 148c Abs. 2 before the public prosecutor/an attorney has to maintain to the extent that he/she/she/she/she/she/he/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/she/it are/are/are/are/ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] - Please? This is the case – the Minister said that yesterday – if the memorial authority is subject to the silence of office, if Mrs Volksanwalt is also subject to the silence of office, but Mr Zinggl is able to make calls with her, and the silence of office does not matter anymore, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how it's going! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are therefore going to discuss this again in the People's Procuratorate Committee, because we will certainly not let this happen to us, that people's lawyers in our country become bodies of parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3127	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3148	Madam President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the law, which is now being debated and which I hope will be decided on, has gone from Parliament, namely the Federal Council and several clubs of the National Council, I am only here to thank and congratulate. Anyone who reads the law, and everyone who reads the law must recognize that it is an extension of Parliament's rights. The details have already been mentioned by several previous speakers: Subsidiarity reports, subsidiarity action, Passerelle clause, as well as the extension of national Council and Council participation powers if own resources decisions are changed in the EU, in particular the introduction of the two-thirds majority if new taxes were to be created. It has also been mentioned that an EU Information Act should be drawn up by the end of the year. Overall, on the one hand, the government is getting more reporting obligations, so to speak, information rules, and on the other hand Parliament is also given direct rules in relation to the European Union. I would like to mention two points. One is the decision on the extension of the seats in the European Parliament. There was an Intergovernmental Conference on 23. ==References====External links== This is still to be ratified in all Member States. The wish is that this is done by the end of the year. This also means two additional seats in the European Parliament for Austria. Another point that is essential for more democracy in Europe – Klubobmann Cap has already mentioned it – is the creation of the implementing provisions for the European Citizens' Initiative. There is a proposal which will be discussed in the European Parliament in the next few days and which hopefully will also come into force quickly, because, as is already known, there are initial ideas for a European citizens' initiative with the aim of enabling European citizens to become more involved in the process of the European Union and, therefore, more understanding and hopefully, more acceptance for the European Union. However, I would like to say something to Mr Stadler. It is not my job to interpret the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, but because of many discussions I know of course that the President of the Federal Republic is a great and accurate expert, first of all of the Austrian federal constitution and second of all the rules here in the National Council. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is responsible for the town boards, Mr. State Secretary?]] - I'm in the middle of doing that. Have a moment of patience! I'll take care of it. Thank you. Of course, the Federal President knows that the Austrian Federal Government is responsible for the Topography Regulation. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] He never said that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But also not said!]] It goes beyond that: If one were to make a constitutional provision, one would want to regulate it constitutionally, he would, of course, be responsible for Parliament and a two-thirds majority would be necessary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: who prevented the SPÖ!]] But it is also undisputed that, from his point of view, there is a desire to finally regulate this issue – I say – in the broadest possible consensus, involving the peoples, the population, the mayor, but also, of course, the various parties and parties represented in the state government and in the country day in Carinthia. This is a legitimate objective, regardless of the fact that the Federal Government is responsible for the adoption of the corresponding regulation. However, the overall competence of the state government and the authorities in Carinthia for the implementation of a topography regulation and for the implementation of what the Constitutional Court has found in several decisions – in which a very thorough, very thorough, very detailed decision of 2001, but also in all the decisions taken thereafter – is, I believe, indisputable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They don't exist!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: If there is no regulation, he doesn't need to implement anything!]] If you have any doubts about this, please read these decisions, which there are to be downloaded on the Internet. Then it is clear that there is also a jurisdiction – not a legislative but an executive authority – of the country of Carinthia. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: An appeal authority!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3268	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3290	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to put to the top of my remarks: It is certainly the largest constitutional amendment in Parliament – I have tried to read it, and would even say so – at least one of the largest, if not the largest, constitutional change since 1920, initiated by Parliament itself. But that means that we have only resorted to those resources that we ourselves have in the clubs. This is not about officials’ apps as in the ministries, but they are individual employees who have done excellent work here. I should like to thank Mr Van der Bellen, who has already spoken to these staff members. There was really excellent work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ and Greens.]] It should therefore be emphasized that this – new – role of Parliament's self-understanding is to take such large legislative projects into its own hands and thus contribute to the strengthening of Parliament. The Treaty of Lisbon can be seen as critical, but it must be said: It's not a contract that's all bad. If we are talking about new opportunities being granted to us under the legislation of the European Union and if you are right now from the FPÖ, who are always in favour of strengthening the national parliaments, but who refuse to do so, then I must say, I cannot understand that anymore. I understand the position of the BZÖ, who say: In principle, we are against the Treaty of Lisbon, but this point is positive because it is strengthening national parliaments! – One should also perceive one’s own self-understanding as a parliament. Therefore: If we are granted rights, we must also exercise them. I believe that the implementation of these rights has been excellent, because it is precisely in § 23f that the exercise of the rights under the Treaty of Lisbon declared the National Council and the Federal Council responsible. This is a new self-confidence of this house. This is a new essential step in the sharing of power in our country, a maximum appreciation that has never been achieved in this form. This can, of course, be a first step, but from our self-understanding and self-confidence it should be. I would now like to mention essential steps: The subsidiarity reports can be carried out by a simple majority both by the National Council and by the Federal Council. And since we expect many legislative projects to be examined in this regard, this can be forwarded to the main committee of the National Council, as well as to a newly elected Committee of the Federal Council. On the other hand, both the National Council and the Federal Council can use a simple majority of their veto in the context of the subsidiarity action of an already adopted bill. However, the Federal Council is limited to those parts that implement or would affect the legislation of the countries. This too is correct from the system, and I believe that it is a good step in the right direction, namely to strengthen the involvement of national parliaments in the legislative process of the European Union. But the most important step is undoubtedly the so-called Passerelle clause, that, before starting from the principle of unanimity at European level, a decision by the National Council and the Federal Council – with a two-thirds majority – is passed on to the Minister, so that he can or cannot go away from it. If there is no such two-thirds majority, then he cannot go away from it. This is a very important step in the relationship of power between executives – say: Federal Government – and legislative – says: Parliament – namely to create an interaction and to reach a binding of the Minister through two-thirds majority decisions. It is therefore an essential new quality and also a new self-confidence of Parliament with regard to the sharing of powers. As I believe, the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty at the parliamentary level has been very successful – and I am proud that we have made one of the most important changes to the federal constitution on Parliament's legislative initiative. I believe that this procedure will lead to a new self-understanding of this House, and I would like to thank all the colleagues who have really worked constructively to develop this legislative project.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3369	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3390	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! What the individual and the smaller Community can accomplish by their own means should not be reduced by a larger community. That is the principle of subsidiarity. That is why I think it is extremely important that the national parliaments will now also have the opportunity to review the legislation directly at European level and, if necessary, to draw the emergency brake. As already pointed out, the Federal Council is upgraded and there is equality between the National and Federal Councils as regards the subsidiarity situation, as well as the flow of information and the opinions. Both the National Council and the Federal Council or the relevant committees will have the opportunity in future to object to draft directives or other legislative initiatives of the European Commission. I would like to stress not only that both the National Council and the Federal Council have the opportunity to raise objections on legislative grounds, but also that I would like to emphasise that citizens will also have the opportunity in the future to be creatively active by means of citizens' desire to demand concerns and certain issues from the European Commission. If, especially when it comes to elections to the European Parliament, we are discussing how we can prevent political starkness or strengthen democracy and, ultimately, we want to achieve the goal of increasing voting participation, especially in the elections to the European Parliament, In the future, it will be necessary not only to give citizens more opportunity to participate but also to create transparency and to put European identity in the foreground. European identity can only be strengthened if everyone feels that they are actually represented by the EU Parliament. However, it is also in the sense of Austria that the seats in the European Parliament are being changed in favour of smaller Member States. In other words, Austria will be represented with 19 delegates instead of 17. I also think that this is positive in terms of transparency and in terms of representation in Europe. Another thing that has not yet been mentioned in today's debate: The Constitution stated that there should also be an annual report by the Ministries on the Commission's work and legislative programme. This has been common practice so far, but I think that in the sense of good cooperation between different levels and the permeability of the issues, it is important to know in advance what the projects are at European level. Important legislative instruments, important topics – if I am thinking of the interest and concern of young people, for example in the field of education – and demographics, but also social justice and health, not only concern the national level anymore; many of the materials are no longer only to be solved at national level. There is now a need for good cooperation between all levels: from the municipality to the European Parliament. I believe that the House should today take the opportunity to see this as a challenge, and I would therefore like to end by calling on all of us to fulfil our task and duty to live up to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3455	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3476	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we Greens are particularly pleased that today we are able to consult and vote on this Constitutional novel here in the House, not least because it did not look like we could get through it together over half a year ago, in November 2009. However, I no longer want to ride around and I can only join those previous speakers who thanked, above all, the employees of the political groups – including our employees, but also the employees of the other political groups – who have done really excellent work here, both in the negotiation process and in the practical legal execution. And as a lawyer, I can distinguish between laws and laws. Mr Van der Bellen, I think, has formulated it most accurately by saying here today that this is really an elegant law. – Thank you once again to all the staff, but also to the colleagues Members who have participated in it! What now brings us this novel and the regulations that will still be followed and on which we have already reached agreement, namely an information law and a possible change in the Rules of Procedure? What does this bring us professionals, i.e. those Members who do not necessarily always and constantly are concerned primarily with European issues which are not in the EU's main committee or subcommittee? It will certainly be possible to highlight the possibility that EU matters will be discussed in the specialist committees. A first step has already been taken in this regard for a long time, by consulting the reports of the members of the government on the Commission's annual programme for a long time in the specialist committees. However, what is now being added and made possible is that there will be more opportunities for professionals, and above all a minority in the committees, to hold these reports in plenary. In addition – and this has already been reported in detail by some previous speakers – it is precisely here that the question has been remedied and how this information obligation will now be formulated by the members of the government towards Parliament. And it is not only that Parliament must be informed in such a timely manner that the EU's main committee can also deliver an opinion in good time and, as it were, make good use of its right of opinion, but above all it is planned that we in this House will be really informed about all the important projects. That is to say, it will be almost impossible for important projects that affect national laws to take place “by Parliament” and we do not get any of them. One essential point is of course the Information Act, which will also be used to feed the information coming from the EU into a database and to create a structure in this database, which makes it possible, on the one hand, to make use of it for parliamentary application – that is to say, a systematisation of rights of participation and issues, and not just as it happens now, after having a chronological approach – but – and that is, I think, an essential step when it comes to the question of how Europe and European affairs are perceived in the population – this EU database should also gradually be prepared so that it is accessible to the public but not only accessible, but also understandable. That is to say, it will be up to us, the Parliament, to prepare the issues within, so that they are understood not only by us parliamentarians, but also by all those who are interested in these matters. In this sense, we have done some work. But there is also work in front of us. We will deal with this in the framework of the Information Act, we will be dealing with it in the context of a debate on a change in the Rules of Procedure. And last but not least, thank you very much to all those who have worked intensively here!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3530	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3552	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer, it is already unique that the President of the Federal Republic needs a speech today in his fishing observation of your interpretation. Only the interpretation is not authentic, because the President of the Federal Government has by no means mentioned this competence of the Federal Government, because of this Parliament, too, if one wants to have a constitutional regulation – the main committee – but he has only called on Carinthia, the head of state of Carinthia, not to refuse a solution here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The main committee is responsible!]] And that is certainly not justified, nor in such a worthy act! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If this matter were so important to you, it would have had to be addressed in a comprehensive way. We have already come up with the suspicion that there have been party-political motivations here, because in other important areas, such as the constitutional reform or the administrative reform, or also the constitutional budgetary treatment, we have unfortunately missed such clear and detailed statements. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Budget template!]] And, Mr State Secretary, one more word, because – and there are witnesses of time: Mr Klubobmann Cap, Mr Molterer, and also me – it was here in the House in a meeting room where we have reached an agreement on the issue of the town board, and it was your group that ultimately prevented consensus on this issue. – So here you can keep the truth historically as well! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Implementation of the Lisbon Treaty. Of course, it is interesting – also a sentence on the Group of Liberals – to: It is true that you have certain points and principles where you say: We reject the Lisbon Treaty! Maybe we don't know exactly what's inside, but we're rejecting it! – But if this Treaty of Lisbon, which is rejected, but some, although perhaps few, points are positive, which represent more rights for us here in Parliament, and if we say: No, but “Lisbon Treaty”, which is like a Pawlow’s Reflex, everything draws together, we reject it, so we do not want the positive either, and therefore we are opposed to the implementation of this positive here in the House!, then this is also a way of making policy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Don’t leave in Lisbon again!”]] [[Abg. Grosz: ‘Government is also deleted!’]] It's not surprising after the events of the last days. One of the positive provisions in the Lisbon Treaty regarding security policy is at least a reduced form – it was even more firmly enshrined in the Constitution – a guarantee of assistance and a solidarity clause. I sometimes do not understand the discussion here in Austria, where it is decided here as a federal government – you have ratified it here in Parliament too – but then when it comes to the specific discussion: Assistance guarantee, that is, we must also be solid if members of the European Union are militaryly or otherwise at risk! No, we do not want to have anything to do with this, we do not want to explain it to the people either, because we act as if nothing had changed in our neutrality! – Some in this country have been working more or less successful for many years, but they are very consistent that they say: We have been a constantly neutral state since 1955. – Of course, this is not quite the case if you want to explain why you need to implement a solidarity provision or assistance guarantee. I am very much in favour of this, and this should be argued offensively: It's a positive! – If one complains of the bad EU vote, then one must also offensively represent these positive effects: that it is positive for us, although we also have the guarantee of the other, of 26 other European states, that, if anyone threatens us – whenever and at all – we have this assistance guarantee. Only in this way can we efficiently and cost-savingly reorganise our national defence by seriously taking and accepting this assistance guarantee in the field of military defence. – This is a very important point in this area, and it is now also implemented in the Austrian federal constitution. But if you look at that, then it's interesting how to implement it. This is then a bit strange, because one represents the point of view – and I still have in my ears what the Minister of Defence, even the President of the Federal Republic, once said in a speech: Yes, neutrality is important to us, and foreign operations only if there is a UN mandate, and then only in a very reduced form – certainly no neutrality-hazardous uses! - Good. I have assumed that the constitutional situation in force since 1999 will be changed, because what does this then Article 23f say? – Here, it will be possible for Austria to be included in ‘the fights in crisis management including peacekeeping measures’. "Afflictions... including peace-making measures" – I do not think it is necessary to be a human rights activist in order to know that this article 23f is incompatible with the status of permanent neutrality. This is also what Professor Mayer wrote in his comment that, with this provision, the Neutrality Act has largely been detoxified materially, i.e. this law has been repealed. This has been true since 1. January 1999. Since then, some politicians – especially SPÖ, but also others; now there is another renaissance in this respect – try to act as if our status of neutrality had changed nothing and a UN mandate would be a condition for foreign operations. – In this federal constitution, on the other hand: No word from a UN mandate! Then I've waited very much for what's coming with this novel. Now the article is no longer 23f, but 23j, and the application is interestingly also a Cap, Head and Van der Bellen request – this is also interesting. I thought, but now it will be quite interesting and there will be everything possible inside, but at least no fighting efforts to create peace. But what's inside? – The opportunity for Austria to participate – with the votes and because of the request also of the Greens – in fighting efforts to create peace. There's no talk about a UN mandate! That's what I thought: Aha, but there's something wrong with that, because where's the political compromise? – It is also inside, with half a sentence, that the principles of the Charter of the United Nations must be respected. This is referred to. It is legal that you mix a constitutional text with a comment, with an explanation, but that seems to be your compromise. Only: This reference does not say anything at all, because every member country of the United Nations – regardless of whether it is NATO member, EU member or non-member – is bound by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. This has nothing to do with a UN mandate, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not criticizing you for not writing this. That would be nonsense, too, for: As long as the United Nations is still structured in such a way that a country like China can also prevent a humanitarian intervention with a veto in the Security Council, the condition of a UN mandate for such operations must not be entered into a constitution. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Dr. Plassnik.]] So I support this, but I criticise the fact that the highest representatives of this state and the Federal Government continue to act as if it were different, still pretending something – UN mandate, neutrality – although they then do exactly the opposite in the legislative process. I must not say that one lies here to the population – at all, I would not say that here – but it is simply not the truth what one presents to the population there. And that's a shame because it takes away a lot of offensive power. There is also an interesting reference to the explanatory notes on the clause of solidarity and on the guarantee of assistance, because that is again, Mr Van der Bellen, what you are writing here in your request: ‘In the event of an armed attack on the territory of a Member State, the other Member States shall, in accordance with... the Charter of the United Nations, owe all assistance and support in its power.’ And then you write so that some kind of neutrality comes back in: Austria can, of course, decide in individual cases whether and how to provide support. “Ob and in what way”! – Now, please take some international law textbooks and read them, which is due to intermediate obligations for a constantly neutral state: There is a fundamental condition that he must always be aware that he will never – no matter what the circumstances – participate in an armed conflict on the side of one of the parties. They make a decision here in individual cases. This corresponds to an alliance-free state – every country that is not obliged to intervene somewhere – can decide for itself whether it participates in a military conflict or not – but contradicts the principles of international law for a constantly neutral state. I say here again: I am very glad that we can also be solidarian here. I am also very much in favour of using it accordingly. But I am also very much in favour of the fact that we are not hiding in the public behind any records, that we are not leading the population behind the light either. – I remember, once I was invited to a discussion in a SPÖ section in Meidling, and I said that there. They said: That's not true, you're telling us the untruth! Then I read to them the text of the Constitution. Then they insisted that not I said the untruth, but those who otherwise presented it to them. And that's wrong, ladies and gentlemen. If we want the support of the population, including for the European Union and for its instruments, we must tell it the truth. The truth then has to be said that the continuing neutrality has been incompatible with EU accession, that the continuing neutrality has been incompatible with the mentioned constitutional innovation in 1998 and, of course, is also incompatible with the Lisbon Treaty. But: The neutrality we took in 1955 has been an answer to the international problems of 1955. We now need other mechanisms, and that is solidarity within the framework of the European Union, which is the joint resolution of conflicts and the corresponding common sharing of tasks. And what we're bringing in here is a small part of what we can get in security from the other states. I believe that this compromise, which has been concluded there, has apparently been so important that it has not been observed and failed to bring in other things that are real problems, such as competence problems and also resolution problems with the Federal Constitutional Act on the one hand and the KSE-BVG on the other, because the solidarity clause, the Permanent Structured Cooperation and the Assistance Guarantee and also the involvement of the individual Federal Ministers in these decisions have not been adequately considered. We want to better regulate this and therefore bring forward a motion for an amendment by Mr Scheibner and Mr Magistrate. Stadler, who is also being distributed – I am officially bringing him in here – that the article 23j, as I have now explained, should be reworded. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to appeal to the awareness of Europe of the population, and it is also important to present the benefits. We should not, however, close ourselves to the truth for party-political reasons. Then one could really be very, very positive for the European mood and awareness of Europe in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3674	As Mr Scheibner has already mentioned, the amendment, which has been properly and properly tabled, has been explained in his key points and will be explained in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GMOs are distributed. This amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3763	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3784	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me give you three brief points on the occasion of this debate. One thing is: I would like to remind the House once again that the question of subsidiarity in European treaties does not come somewhere but is due to an Austrian initiative. In particular, 2006 in the field of subsidiarity The conference in St. Pölten was of interest and at the time also assured by the Commission that this principle of subsidiarity is already to be applied voluntarily. I therefore believe that in this debate, we should also say that we left Austrians with the question of subsidiarity – in connection with other but especially leading ones – our manuscript in the Lisbon Treaty. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to make the second comment on the contributions to debate, which is what the whole thing will have. One can, of course, raise arguments about the design of the subsidiarity suffrages or the subsidiarity action that is not sufficient. But one thing is clear: The interaction that is generated cannot be underestimated. I do not know a minister in Austria or in a Member State of the European Union who, if the majority of his Parliament were opposed to something that would not be included in his policy in Brussels. I do not know a group of the European Parliament who would not be influenced by the group in the national Parliament if the majority opposed something. That is to say, we will have a very different kind of lively discussion when national parliaments are more involved in the legislation. I see this very positive, even if it will not always be tireless for a member of the Federal Government, but it will certainly contribute to an incredible recovery in Europe. I welcome this because we need a greater involvement of national parliaments in European issues. On the third and last, I would also like to take something from this debate in the direction and give you a best-practice example of what the future of the debate in Europe as a whole is about to happen. It does not always have to be done strictly in accordance with the principles – the Commission is the initiator, and it is the only one who can make a proposal. We are currently having a discussion on this Danube Strategy, which we, together with others, are also driving forward. It's different there today: The Commission is not the one who writes the strategy, it is rather the mediator between Member States, between regions, even between parliamentarians who participate in it. I believe that this is a very good best-practice example of how it can be different, namely that the initiatives are coming up from below, that one is trying to achieve a common relationship between the federal government, countries, between regions of Europe and the institutions. And if we do so in other areas, this can only help to make Europe a project of more than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3835	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3857	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, on your request and on your comments. As you know, the core of Austrian neutrality is defined by the following points: no participation in wars, no participation in a military alliance, no stationing of foreign troops on our territory. [[Abg. Where's that? That's not true! You have defined that, not international law!]] Neutrality is therefore not affected by the provisions on security and defence policy in the Treaty of Lisbon, because for Austrian neutrality it is essential that all European decisions on the common security and defence policy continue to be unanimous. We will therefore be able to decide on participation in activities in the context of crisis management, as before. . We cannot therefore give your request your consent. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that is not the point in the request, Mrs Colleague! Didn't you read it?]] The amendment emphasises that the EU's common foreign and security policy, and thus also Austria's participation in it, is obliged to respect and respect the principles of the United Nations Charter. You obviously want to delete this passage – we cannot agree to it. The solidarity clause in the Treaty of Lisbon is not part of the provisions on the common foreign and security policy, so its involvement in the provisions of the Federal Constitution, which ultimately regulates the participation of Austria in the common foreign and security policy, must be rejected. The Treaty of Lisbon does not provide for a military assistance obligation, but rather for a solidarity obligation in the event of environmental disasters or in the event of a terrorist attack, as is the case in the law. That is why we can decide on a sovereign basis. We must therefore reject your request. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Lisbon Begelitnovelle: It has already been said that this is a very important law for Austria and for national parliaments, so I do not fully understand that the FPÖ is not in agreement, because you are in favour of more co-determination. I assume you are also in favour of more democratic control and more transparency. For the first time, however, Parliament is also given the opportunity to review European legislative proposals directly, namely the subsidiarity reports that have already been mentioned. Mr Hübner, you said that everything was just sound and smoke, or anything else, that would do nothing. – I don't think so! I believe that the appeal is quite an instrument for Parliament to be able to produce very important and necessary political pressure when it comes to overriding the EU's competence. – As the last resort, there is still the complaint. But what I think is also new and very exciting is this enhanced dialogue with Europe. The new possibilities of national parliaments need a new environment, they need a new form of cooperation. The European institutions – in particular the European Commission – are looking for more dialogue with national parliaments in order to probe the terrain in advance to see how far we could jointly develop new legislative texts, new laws. So far, the Austrian Parliament has only been able to participate in this dialogue by means of committee statements. Now, with the entry into force of the Lisbon Begelitnovelle, a new instrument, the so-called Communication, will be created with which Parliament can actively participate in European policy, for example with its own proposals, as the earlier a Parliament expresses itself to European projects, the greater the chance of actually having an influence on new acts. What is – last but not least – as I think is interesting is the new networking of national parliaments among themselves. Greater dialogue, improved communication will help to better understand the other countries, for other positions, and this can only benefit the Europe project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3921	Now comes Mr Mag. Molterer's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e3943	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When Austria became a member of the European Union in 1995, many opportunities opened up. But the crucial question was: Does Austria benefit from this opportunity? – We have two examples where we can say full of self-confidence: Austria has taken this opportunity. On the one hand, we have used the opportunity economically: Remember which companies in the In the meantime, exports in Europe have actually been successful, as many jobs have been created through this economic success balance, not because the entrepreneurs have said: We don't do anything about it, but because they said: Yeah, there's a chance, that's what we're doing! Second example: Austria is one of the countries from which, I believe, most young people, students participate in the study programmes, exchange programmes of the Union. Would the students have said: There is a chance, but we don't take it, we stay at home!, the chance would have been missed. Mr. Strache, I see it here. One can believe this or that about Lisbon – that's okay – but with Lisbon, we have had a parliamentary opportunity that we want to take. From my parliamentary self-understanding, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity of Lisbon! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't understand! Especially out of a critical attitude you can have – I don't have it, but you can have it – you should be interested in saying now: Yes, we parliamentarians benefit from this opportunity to intervene in European policy. [[Abg. Strache: This is not an influence! ... because there is no influence!]] I just don't understand! I also think that you have taken a chance to take a critical position out of a reflex. [[Abg. Street:... democratic process!]] It is not only those who are positive about Europe that can be active here, but also those who have quite critical comments now get new instruments, new opportunities into their hands. You miss a chance of parliamentarianism, you miss an opportunity to democratize the European project. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... no more discussing?]] But it's your responsibility, you have to take it. [[Abg. May. Stefan: And if we don't vote now, we can't talk to you anymore?]] But what we still have to do – we are taking the opportunity; four parliamentary parties are taking the chance of new rights in the European legislative process – are three major things that we still have in front of us: We will have to negotiate the information law here in Parliament, we will have to negotiate the database that President Neugebauer has already spoken about, and we will also have new instruments in the Rules of Procedure. . I mention one that has not been illuminated so far in the debates. We intend to create a new instrument with a view to reorganising the much debated question of speaking rights here in plenary so that we can achieve something: In this case, we are importing Europe into the Austrian Parliament, and we are exporting to Europe through the subsidiarity action, through the subsidiarity suffrages of Parliament's political opinions. We are actively participating in this process, and I think that is a very important step forward. That's a quantum leap! But we also - I say quite openly - have less excuses, because the excuse that we could not co-form is no longer valid from today's decision. It will therefore be up to us, ladies and gentlemen, in the committees – in all the committees; of course, also in the main committee – and it will be at Parliament's management – Madam President, that's a lot of work – it will be up to the clubs, what we have to do here, it will also be the Federal Government, as we cooperate on this opportunity that is opened to us, and to Parliament itself, because, for example, the question of coordination with other parliaments, for federalism, is essential to this issue. That is to say, Europe will hopefully now become with us this lively course of course, which I have always dreamed of – by the way, not only in the National Council, but also in the Federal Council, and this up-to-date eye-gauge of the two chambers I consider to be an essential step, and I am also grateful for it. Last comment: From my point of view, Van der Bellen raised a very important question in the perspective. If we take Lisbon seriously now, in this new form, then we have on the one hand the opportunity of co-determination, but we, as parliamentarians, should also see this as a commitment to a new European initiative, to a new European offensive, because it turns out that the rethinking of the current distribution of competences in Europe is important – from the crisis this awareness is burning! – and it must be clear that we must strengthen this Europe in political competence. But if we want to, we must also give the European institutions - the Commission and the European Parliament, but above all the Commission - the competence to do so and establish new instruments such as the European Monetary Fund. This may, in fact, mean less formal competence for the nation state, but it means, above all, less crisis-sensitive to Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That must be our interest, ladies and gentlemen: that we make Europe more crisis-resistant because it benefits the people of Austria! This is not a loss, Mr Stefan – because you look so skeptical and desperate – but you win! And I want to be among the winners and not the losers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4044	Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4066	Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been done on this item on the agenda, and the most important points have already been mentioned. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that I would like to begin by thanking all those who have helped with their commitment, with their creativity, that this presentation has come. In any event, I also believe that, as has already been said, this proposal brings improvements to many points, and I would also like to stress this, if not all that we had imagined – and what the European trade unions, in particular – has been put into place in this Treaty of Lisbon. Therefore, all that we have defined as an improvement – the additional rights of participation and co-determination that exist – can only be described as one, as I mean, first step towards more democracy, more participation – not that one does not believe that it is now the end of this process. This can at best be the beginning of a process of democratization! There is also a need for appropriate implementing provisions at European level on many points of this Treaty, in particular where civil participation and initiatives are concerned, and it is also important that this is taken very seriously in the near future. As I said, this is a first step towards more democracy, and others must follow. Fritz Neugebauer has pointed out – and I believe that this is true – that as progress on European issues becomes relevant topics, and this will result in the fact that this classical separation of the past – because national issues, there European issues – will no longer exist in this form, because we have to discuss and deal with the issues together. If I have spoken about the need for further progress, I would particularly like to mention the social dialogue at European level, which has been established in many sectors, but which is unfortunately a toothless tiger today, because its results de facto only have a recommendation character. Although we often work very long and intensively there – in some industries this works very well – only recommendations come out at the end of the day, and in reality there is no way of establishing those who have developed it accordingly. I would like to take up what Mr Molterer said earlier: a European initiative. . I therefore think this is very, very good, because I believe that the European Union must understand the crisis as an opportunity, just as the President of the Federal Republic has already formulated today. If we remember the election at the last EU election, I believe we must be clear that appropriate initiatives and signs need to be put in place. Now there is a small amount of more democracy, there is the protection for the euro. The question will be what are the next steps and whether these steps can make it clear that what people in this country and many people in Europe want is a more policy to regulate the financial markets and to ensure that what has driven us into the crisis can no longer be done in this form, and a greater level of justice – a more distribution justice, so that those who have not caused the crisis can pay the tokens for it. Let us together make sure that the key word of a social Europe becomes reality and not only occurs in Sunday's speeches! And, by the way, Mr. Scheibner: It was not the President of the Federal Republic who excavated and moved the town boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4120	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word is not wanted on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft Lisbon Begelitnovelle in 827 of the Supplements. Mr Scheibner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the amendment concerned by this amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since amendments to the B-VG as well as to a Federal Constitutional Act are included in the present draft law and in the said amendment proposal, I first make amendments within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr Co-workers, on an amendment of a kind. 1 C 5 refers. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I again expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the request of the main committee to take note of its report 787 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. –This is accepted by the majority. [[14:40:24]] 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the proposal 1107/A by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on a federal constitution law amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Public Officials, as well as a federal law amending the Federal Remuneration Act and the Remuneration Act (828 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1171/A by Mr Karl Oellinger, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Pensions and Pensions of the Supreme Institutions of the Federal Government and other Officials (Contribution Act) (829 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution 1186/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Josef Cap, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Constitutional Law on the Limitation of Contracts of Official Officials and a Federal Act amending the Federal Reference Act (830 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1193/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, Members of Parliament on the freezing of political salaries and reduction of old-age political pensions by at least 10% (831 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4267	We now come to points 3 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4298	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I accept, hopefully with the President's agreement, but two more sentences on the last item on the agenda, before I go into Agenda items 3 to 6, just for thought. A Parliament is a legislative body, a legislative body. If legislative functions are undermined and we are subject to a different legal order, then that is all possible, but not a strengthening of Parliament. If, instead, we receive consultation rights and the possibility of internal discussions at a level when we become an institution of foreign policy, in the same way as the Foreign Minister, or whatever happens when we establish databases, then this is all possible, but not an actual task of Parliament and therefore certainly no strengthening of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to the present matter, in which there seems to be a broad consensus, the following is very important to me: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany said today in his speech, certainly to say a lot of things and in which there is much to criticize, that people are very reasonable if they are told the truth and if they are not harmed by their inconsistency. We always have to think about this when we talk about our own references and our own position here, because we are – we can turn and turn as you like – the only professional group in Austria that determines for ourselves what it deserves and under what conditions and with which to retire. There, the group of politicians – not just the national councils but the politicians in general – is the only one. – Yes, yes, next word: [[Abg. Grosz: For wrong voting you get a salary increase, and for wrong claping...!]] Grosz. That is where we really need to be careful about the media discussion. Some colleagues have left in the last few days and have meant that they are underpaid, or have compared their references to the salary levels, such as a Mr. Treichl has from the First Bank or other Boni referents from the USA, and have then said that Mr. Treichl earned ten times as much as the Federal Chancellor, which could not be. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe there is a fundamental difference. We're not in the economy here, we're not doing business here, we're doing something that's called politics that's called popular representation, and everyone who's just doing this job because he deserves a lot of money is already missing out on the square. If we are now trying to attract experts who would not otherwise get into politics by means of the highest level of pay, that is exactly the wrong people. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ know this experience, not only with politicians: If you take people who are used to selling Coca Cola or Red Bull or McDonald’s as spin doctors, and they make you a campaign, then nothing will happen. These are people who are missing out on the square. Then there comes an advertising such as “The A-Team” – European elections 2009. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So this is an approach that we must beware of. Acting politically must not mean aligning his actions to the maximum of personal benefits, personal gain or personal content. – A global observation shows us that quality in politics has nothing to do with the payment of politicians. Take Kenya as an example that was back in conversation two, three days ago. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Greece is even better!]] Kenya is the country with almost the highest net political incomes at present. For example, a Member of Parliament earns approximately €11 850 net, because the Members did not pay taxes until recently, but were exempt from the taxes. Now there's a giant vortex there because they have to pay taxes now. Parliament has then decided to double the references of Members, and now there is a pre-revolutionary state. Kenya has not only the highest political relations – this applies to ministers, by the way, they have far more than our people here in Austria – but it is also the second most corrupt country as regards the attitude of its politicians. The Members of Parliament who, following the transparency international investigations I have received, are the Kenyan. You have to know all this, because all the talk, you have to pay politicians high like the Treichl, then they're great, and then you get quality people, you're missing. In this sense, I do not need to explain our request any further. It covers wide distances with others. What we ask to pay particular attention to is the question of pensions according to the old pension system. I think there is a need for action, because people will not understand that there are cuts everywhere, but that everything remains with the old. With these old pensions, the coverage rate is about 9 percent – that is, the deposits cover only 9 percent, and the rest is paid by the taxpayer. - I can't.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4368	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4389	Madam President. High house! I am at all in favour of simply holding a principle debate on our self-understanding – as we imagine how we evaluate ourselves. We have already done so in the Constitutional Committee. I would suggest that we hold this debate today in plenary and that we also represent this in relation to media representatives, on television, at election events or in the constituency. – That's what I've reached on the real topic. I believe that the evaluation of what politicians are worth must begin first with the question of which fields of work and fields of work they actually have. This can not only be quantified, it is also a question of its... – Well, look, it comes to the following: [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] A few days ago, I found in the magazine “Austria” a ranking with an evaluation system that you have invented, combining committee memberships, the number of speeches and the number of parliamentary questions. – This completely hides the work that many Members have in their constituencies. But this includes a lot of things, because today it is expected that you will be present for information, perhaps interventions, at events, fire brigades and the like and communicate there. By the way, this is also a cost. The number of committee members used in this ranking does not mean the quality and effort of the work, because it is important whether someone is really connected to a particular project, because then he works day and night on the project. That is, if someone works in a committee and accompanies a project for more than six months, he has done more than someone else who may sit in three committees, but has not been entrusted with a time-consuming project, which does not yet mean that he does not want to be entrusted to it, but there are just certain divisions. [[Abg. Grosz:... and who does not pay a party tax!]] The number of speakers in the House does not say anything either, because in the case of smaller groups, the individual must speak more often than it is possible for the larger groups, because we have the Rules of Procedure. I think that should be tried to get some kind of work done here, and put it in a connection with the payment. We have probably made mistakes in the past, because if we are becoming more and more a working parliament here, and if, in reality, the membership of the European Union of the accident at work, pardon, has increased in Parliament, then I would just like to say that is also to be calculated and not to divide away. That, in the end, also defines what Members make up. Then there is the famous debate of Members' qualifications. If you want a representative Parliament, you have to bring in a variety of qualifications. If it becomes more and more a working parliament, there are many who work here and then grow up with this activity, and there are also experts. When I was here for the first time – because you are always kidding – there were no parliamentary staff and even a small number of club experts. [[Abg. Grosz: For the protocol: For 50 years!]] What we have fought is that there are more facilities, more possibilities, more offices, more club experts, more parliamentary staff, and in reality it is still not enough if I compare this with other parliaments in Europe. If you want this Parliament – and this is what we negotiated at the previous item on the agenda – to be really competitive, and to be competitive, to be able to work with governments, too – this Parliament must, of course, have the corresponding facilities. This also concerns work in connection with the European Union. Experience is a value that should not be underestimated – that is, at all levels. This is of utmost importance for continuity. I would like to give you a small example: I have read with interest an interview by Peter Pilz – he is not here right now – in the “standard”. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Well, it's not 18 o'clock yet, then he gets slowly sleepy eyes, I know. [[Abg. Grosz: A Mr. Gusenbauer stops at 2 p.m.]] The interview had the title: “We have a nasal ring parliament.” – It speaks of “Nasenring Parliament”, “Helpless grant” for the Members and the like, that’s just so zack-zag. Honestly, Peter – there he is – you know, there are moments in which I appreciate you very much, but there are moments in which I do not appreciate you – for example, in the moment you gave this interview, because I believe that this is not all right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For example, the fact that we have finally made 27 amendments to the Government's draft gambling law, which came into the house here, in the course of our work, must be taken note of if you want to assess it objectively. Whether or not the result is the same as the representatives of a party wanted or not, is a political question. At a political level, one can say: In spite of these 27 amendments, I do not want to make this proposal. There are more and more laws in which Parliament is involved, more and more legislative processes, are involved in the parliamentarians of the two government parties when the ministerial bureaucracy is working on the papers. This has changed vis-à-vis earlier. There is more integration into the activity, yes, you can almost say – under quotations – more “government”. But if you stand on the point of view, a parliament is not a "Nasenring Parliament" until it does exactly what a member of the opposition wants, then, I must say, this is a democratic access, which I do not think is okay. [[Abg. Brosz: What did the Federal President say about the budget shift?]] I also do not make myself up and say that the Green Party is in order if they agree to any proposal made by the government or the SPÖ to a hundred percent, and if it does not, then they are confused, do not know themselves, are not qualified and so on. If we get the discourse on this level... – No, no. [[Abg. Brosz: Are you saying something about the President's statements on the budget shift?]] I appreciate your cooperation; for example, in the ORF law, I have to say that was constructive. We didn't read anything in the media, that was really good. You then decided not to agree at third reading. - That's your decision. In second reading you agreed – all right. There has been no critical statement from us in which we said that you are impervious, you have deceived us or anything similar. [[Abg. Brosz: Ostermayer already!]] I am only in favour of the fact that, if we are jointly interested in the fact that this House receives a different kind of respect and recognition, we are also dealing differently with each other and that we ensure that this recognition is carried outside. [[Abg. Brosz: The ORF is meaty for us – who said that? Ostermayer!]] I have now quoted the interview that Peter Pilz gave in the “standard” because he says in today’s “curier”: “We must be careful that we do not further devalue the mandate.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When the government destabilizes Parliament!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Constitutional Break!]] He says this in today’s “Kurier, ” and previously in the “Standard” he really devalues the mandate of the National Councils with statements such as those used as the title of the interview. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's how it is!]] – No, not “This is him!” We should try to get into language arrangements together in the discussion in order to avoid such a thing in the future. It's a dialogue offer. I don't make myself here and play the high teacher, but it's just an offer that we're trying to deal with each other wisely. [[Abg. Grosz: Break the Constitution!]] – Mr Grosz, it would also be a goal to ask whether the wording is good. [[Abg. Grosz: But honestly!]] We have had a wording debate and a wording critique in the last few days, which should not necessarily be transported outside. [[Abg. Grosz: The Styrian Soul!]] Let us look at the e-mails, let us look at the letters that we get, in which often criticism of the way we deal with each other in the debates. Now I say again: I'm not pleading that there's harmony there, that you fall around each other's necks. - No one says that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Parliament has been completely squandered for you!]] The political difference should also be interpreted properly here, but if at the same time we want this recognition to exist, then we must ensure... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You, together with the President, have been totally squandered by Parliament!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Just says the Westenthaler, the...!]] No, okay, that's your political point of view, but we should still try to make sense. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are constitutional breakers, that is the truth!]] Therefore: Zero round only means that we are of the opinion that this symbolic gesture makes sense now in the crisis period, but at the same time it does not mean that we are of the opinion that we are not worth our money or we are overpaid. That's not it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't care!]] That was an attempt, but we can also say, let's leave it all. – I think we should not let that happen. [[Abg. Grosz: Even for 50 years the same speech!]] Therefore, my request that we talk about our role, our task and what we represent for the Austrian public and for our electorate, and that we do so. – That was my attempt today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4717	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4738	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, I will start the dialogue. You have to talk about the topics you have addressed, but if you talk about respect, you must not forget that respect does not begin with what you have to do in the media, but probably with how you respect each other's work. If hundreds of applications, proposals for laws that the opposition has made, hang in the pipeline, in the “remorse tube, ” then one could also speak of disrespectful behavior in this context. So I think if we talk about this working Parliament when we talk about the work-related or accidents of this Parliament, please also talk about the use of the government parties – one can also call it unkind of the government parties – not to position itself, but to postpone requests. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will vote in favour of the zero wage round, because we also consider this to be an important signal in times of the general saving course, over which we will still have sufficient opportunity in autumn to discuss and argue effectively. But we believe that other signals are necessary, not only for our own salaries, which, as I mean, are quite appropriate. – Many salaries of other professional groups are clearly not appropriate; I remember the care staff, kindergarten teachers, pedagogical staff: mostly women working in inadequately paid professions. So it will not only require this signal act, this symbolic action, this solidarity contribution, but I have already noticed another one – and there are probably still some that might be thought of. Vice-chanc Pröll has not long spoken of the need to tighten the belt – it can now be imagined graphically, or one can measure it by his actions – and then he has in a campaign he has advertised on the subject of “Less debt. More for Austria” – you may all remember that at the end of April, it was large-scale in different daily newspapers: every baby, every grandmother, every neighbor has debts of €24 000 – informing people of how much euros they owe. – It must be said that these people are not making the debt, but the Minister of Finance. This campaign, which we believe is against zero, has cost exactly 816 802,51 €. And if we are going to face this with the zero wage round and ask ourselves what these or similar actions bring, then we have to ask ourselves whether it would be time for the members of the government to take seriously, on the one hand, resolutions which have been blessed here, and on the other hand, the restrictions on advertising and advertising campaigns that have often been mounted, especially in times like these, and really reduce themselves to campaigns that serve the information on issues of content that concern the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We say: Yes! – I compare this €816,802.51 to the total per year. The total expenditure amounted to €35 million in 2008 and was €30 million in 2009. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: And the city of Vienna not to forget!]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The city of Vienna – thank you for the note! – spends € 100 000 per day for advertising/information campaigns. 100,000 €! [[Call at the SPÖ: Much happens in Vienna too!]] Yes, we all know, however, that these information campaigns do not serve the information, as the name falsely wants us to believe, but that these information campaigns should only serve to ensure that government members can make party policy, personal culture, personal culture campaigns at the expense of taxpayers. [[Abg. Grosz: But that does the Voves in Styria too!]] So: Let's start with us, but let's continue with these solidarity contributions! One possibility would be the advertising and advertising campaigns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4816	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4837	Ladies and gentlemen! With the item on the agenda, which we have just discussed, and thanks to God, we have decided by a large majority to assign new tasks to Parliament. New tasks also mean new work for us. I think that's what we're here for. This is not a complaint, quite the contrary: I am glad that we want to see Austrian interests also in the European dimension, not only national, for the people of the country. It does not matter whether a Member in this House does his work from the role of opposition or from the role of a majority of governments: It's worth the work. It doesn't matter. The opposition can also be government once and the government once opposition; this has been done almost everyone in the house. By the way, also the ÖVP – for those who have only recently come in. The central question, therefore, is that in terms of salary and salary policy for politicians, I believe we should also have the right and the self-confidence that we should also be in the public sector as well as our performance, and also have the self-confidence to say: We deserve the money we earn, which is regulated by the law, which is transparent, which anyone can read, absolutely right. We need this self-confidence – and not only in one day as today, but actually constantly and always. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of course clear that this signal of abandonment of the increase in salary in this crisis is necessary. But I say quite frankly to you, I have already had better feelings in Parliament's decisions than in this one, because one must already be clear: If we send the signal, this necessary signal of solidarity, we must not make the mistake of giving the impression that our work is less valuable. I think the opposite is the case. But if we believe that our work is worth the money we earn, then we have to accept this work ourselves on the one hand – as Josef Cap is quite right – and we must not allow our work to be assessed on the other hand according to real self-willing standards. Because quite honestly: To use the number of speeches as a criterion is not at all art, because then each of us goes out, gives a minute's speech and brings together 150 speeches. He only needs to go out and say “Glory God! ” and“ Goodbye! ” I mean, that's grotesk! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] That is why this question, ladies and gentlemen, is important to us ourselves. Then we will just sit down and talk not only about the next initiative proposal, but about this question: Why are we being judged from the outside? It would never be a politician's idea to go here and make a barber's list for a commentator of a newspaper. We can think about what That's not a question at all. A strict list leads everyone for himself, but we do not make a ranking of journalists – well, they would complain! – but vice versa? - First question. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: In the house we have already made several calls for a unanimous agreement on the salary issue. We had unanimity with the reference pyramid. We also had a unanimous consensus on how our salary adjustment takes place. But we ourselves have gone from consensus, from different motives, once tactical, once time, once what I know. – But we must not wonder: If we do not take our own decisions seriously, we will not be taken seriously either. That is, if we are making calls here for unanimity and common strategy, then I call for this to continue even if it is something critical. You have to be able to do that as a politician. Even if you have a counterwind, you have to actually take a position. Thirdly, I have a request, also in view of the discussion of the last few minutes, and also because of some of the comments made by colleagues on Members of Parliament. The question of whether a majority of Parliament's own wishes are met or not cannot decide whether Parliament is doing quality work. It can happen to each of us once that he loses or that he wins. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] But it never has, if someone overcame me, the one who overcame me to expect a certain qualification from me. Not! Then: Democracy means dealing with the majority and the minority. And those who cannot deal with minorities cannot handle them by a majority either. I expect this respect for democratic principles from all.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4907	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e4939	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! First of all, I believe that there is general consensus about this, Mr Molterer, that in a situation like the present one, it is unlikely to explain to anyone that the political caste automatically adapts to the salaries. I think that's Common Sense. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: That vote alone, Mr Colleague! That's the wrong choice of words!]] – Not “word election”, but it has now become a caste, a secretary caste, which is increasingly losing ground liability to the population. There you can discuss why this is so, but it is. That's a fact. Secondly, I fully agree with Mr Hübner – where is he? ; no, that's not self-therapy! – when he refers to Kenya – I think he called it – he says that the quality of politicians has nothing to do with the level of relations. [[Abg. Krainer: Is this a self-therapy?]] That's right. That's where a vocation spoke. The FPÖ Group is the best example: The quality of politicians has nothing to do with the level of involvement. [[Abg. Rädler: Not with you either!]] Because if I do all that the FPÖ application requires, I would immediately have to collect 500 € political content for wrong voting, for false applause minus 100 € – I am gracious, it is only applause, that is not so harsh – for false argumenting minus 1 000 €, for false presence and absence minus 500 €. My colleague, Mr Strache, will run out every time I go to the speaker's desk. He's not here today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, one can discuss with me calmly the performance idea and quality in the reference system. This can be calculated modelled on the basis of the different political groups. I'm not sure if the FPÖ group would really get out so well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to concentrate on Mr Cap and on Mr Molterer. I have heard with great, great hope: fair handling, respectful handling of the majority with the minority. Mr Cap is making a dialogue offer. The work of the opposition and the government group is basically equivalent, Willi Molterer said. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example. Holy lip confessions sometimes have short legs, Mr. Cap. Everyone can take the templates from them: The present proposal is based on a request from Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Ewald Stadler and other members of the BZÖ Group. In this we demand that we suspend this connection adjustment until the 1st century. January 2012. The application will be submitted, and then exactly the same request will be made, and exactly the same request... – Yes, I would like to explain it here again. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: We already heard that in committee!]] Look, Mr Donnerbauer remembers what has already been explained in the Committee. Yes, wonderful! Bravo! Hurra! He's been watching! Plus 50 €! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Colleagues, plus 50 € for care! Qualified call: another 20 €! Yes, I do! That shows he was there. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's worth more! Plus 500 €!]] So: We have a request booker, then comes a request cap and head, and this one is exactly the same. Even the citation mistake that happened to us has been taken over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Minus 20 €, I like to be there! And for those who write out the wrong, minus 200 €, the tensome, because you have unfortunately overlooked that, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the respectful approach that Cap and Head urge – which at the same time provide evidence that everything can be decided, but it must be “Cap” and “head” on it?- Oh, my God! Otherwise, the coalition will not be able to decide anything, even if it is actually so correct that you write it down and write down a numerical breakdown that happened in the quotation of a federal law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have understood this if they had said: We had to make this request because, in the case of the BZÖ's request, there was a fall in numbers. That is why we could not agree. - But no! Even the little pans write off with you! It may only be decided if “Cap” and “head” are on it. Is that respectful handling of the opposition? Is this the fundamental equivalence of government work and opposition work? Is that it, Mr. Willi Molterer? I don't hear anything at all now – or am I unheard? That's cynical dealing with the opposition! The opposition can do what it wants, but it is only worth something if the government groups stand on it. Is that the appropriate way to deal with the parliamentary opposition? That's not him, ladies and gentlemen! They will be measured very quickly by your own actions. Today big lip confessions, the public has been able to hear it... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Constitutional Break!]] Constitutional breach is a different issue anyway. Constitutional breach is even good, because the arguments you bring are from the outset the best. The government can do what it wants – if the arguments fit in with the two government groups, then they are good even if it is a significant breach of the constitution. There science can say what it wants, the opposition can only say what it wants. That doesn't matter, ladies and gentlemen. And there you can see how important it is that these two government parties have no two-thirds majority. I do not want to imagine what the opposition with the government at that time, consisting of FPÖ and ÖVP, would have been listed at that time if one had committed such a blatant breach of the constitution: Three ways from the Euroland we would have gotten, at least! A special audit committee from the European Union would be crossed. No, but now sit down. Both of you, together in the great coalition, have no two-thirds majority – regrettably – and at least at least have to deal with the rest of the opposition in a reasonable manner. I can only tell the Austrians: Not only do you see how to make false confessions in dealing with the minority here, but you can also see how these governmental parties would deal with the federal constitution, they would have the constitutional majority! Then this constitutional break would be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5093	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5114	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow Mr Cap's invitation to dialogue and start the dialogue with a simple conclusion: The three main tasks – and I believe that we are an opinion – of the National Council are: Control, legislation and budget creation. Let's get to control: In recent years, the National Council plenary session has set up by a majority of four committees of inquiry. All four then, if it has become delicate, have been turned off with the majority of the government, with the majority of Members in this House being turned off from SPÖ and ÖVP. The Banking Investigation Committee – turned off. The Eurofighter Investigation Committee – turned off. The Interior Ministry Investigation Committee – turned off. And the committee of inquiry on the monitoring of Members has just been turned off before the issue of Kazakhstan. So far to control. And now you tell me, Mr Cap and Mr Molterer: How many are Members of the Government who are under control to prevent Parliament from controlling? How much are they worth? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the BZÖ.]] I'd say, Not quite what they deserve right now. Second, legislation: Just one example, the gambling law. My wish, Mr Molterer, was quite different, namely the prohibition of so-called small gambling by a federal law. But, from the point of view of the approach, I have indicated very reasonable negotiations in the Financial Committee to my group: Okay, if the ban does not find a majority in this House, we are talking about how we can represent the interests of the people concerned and their families in such a way that we can say that it is still somewhere else responsible, this law primarily represents the interests of the affected people, young people and families and not primarily the interests of the gambling industry. So, and then, after the series, the Members have signaled: Yes, we would like to, but there are two national leaders, in Vienna and Lower Austria, who say that it must be 55 and once a year € 22 million from the pockets of the playful to the tax pots. And these heads of state are so strong that we must vote against our own conscience and against our own conviction of an uncontrollable law, which has already been warned by prosecutors and judges. And this, Mr Molterer, and that, Mr Cap, is not what I imagine under responsible legislation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Petzner.]] Thirdly, the question of the budget, the third great right of Parliament. Well, what are we experiencing these days? The Federal President must tell you in an “NEWS” interview that the federal constitution must be respected?- Oh, my God! As a constitutional representative, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has to say to you: Please, please remind the Federal Government that it adheres to the federal constitution!Unknown term type: "%s".? So far we have come that the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP need a constitutional reminder because they themselves have forgotten that the federal constitution is also to be observed by members of the Federal Government?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And for these Members, are you demanding a fair, high wage?- Oh, my God! – Well, get out of the house once, and ask the people who, with their taxpayers, fund you and me, what they think of this kind of parliamentarians! I have chosen the cautious and reticent expression ‘Nasenring Parliament’ to stop hurting you and to express it very carefully. [[Abg. Grosz: There are much worse expressions!]] The people on the streets have much more drastic expressions for this kind of policy, which I do not want to repeat here. That's why I appeal to you: Take this criticism of the people, the taxpayers, of whom you are paid, at last seriously, and see with us that we have a strong, an independent, an hourly Parliament that people in this Republic are rightly proud! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5190	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 828 of the supplements. If you agree, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 829 of the supplements. Please give me an agreed sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We now come to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Servants, as well as a Federal Act amending the Federal Remuneration Act and the Relevant Law, including the title and receipt in 830 of the Supplements. This draft law contains amendments to a Federal Constitutional Act. I therefore begin by establishing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft to have a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The two-thirds majority constitutionally required is given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those Members who also agree to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. - That's unanimity. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. Vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 831 of the supplements. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[15:20:29]] 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (750 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Signature Act (832 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5282	We're coming to the 7th. Agenda item. Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5307	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! High house! Until now, it has not been possible to continue the qualified certificates in the event of a termination of the activity of a certification service provider. The amendment to be adopted now seeks to establish that if the activity is stopped, the certificates will only be revoked if this is not in the public interest. If it is in the public interest, these should be continued. This is the case, for example, when citizens make electronic official channels, as they are regulated by the eGovernment law. The acquisition by the federal government is only to be made subsidiary if the ZDA can no longer guarantee the continuation of the qualified certificates. A committee has also been set up on this matter. For example, a withdrawal of certificates would also mean that notaries or lawyers would have to accept the loss of their electronic certification signature or professional signature. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure the continuity of the certificates, but on the other hand it should also be possible to extend the certificates. Finally, this is a necessary legislative measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5346	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5367	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! When the Signature Act was created in 1999, full confidence in modern communications technologies was essential for the further development of electronic business and legal traffic over open networks. Participants must be able to rely in particular on the identity of their contact person. – Ten years later, nothing changed. Therefore, all measures that strengthen this confidence are to be seen in a positive way, and therefore the ÖVP of this amendment is in agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! A functioning signature law is an essential prerequisite for the e-government – that e-government that has developed into a true success story in recent years in Austria. The “Digital Austria Platform” enables citizens and entrepreneurs to easily and easily manage public authorities through the Internet. Over 80 percent of companies already use the eGovernment service; more and more citizens are electronic customers. But the authorities are also better interconnected, starting with the small community, to the individual departments in the Federal Ministries. What is natural today has required a real rethinking process in recent years. Prejudices had to be reduced; I only remember the initial scepticism when the e-card was introduced. Meanwhile, the range of services of the e-card has even been expanded by the function as a citizen card with which the electronic signature is possible. This means that even forms can now be electronically filled out and sent – without long ways, faster, safer and cheaper. It is very encouraging to read in the media, for example: ‘Website quality in eGovernment: Austria leading in the German-speaking region’, or: ‘Austria in eGovernment model for high-tech Japan’. Ladies and gentlemen! The extensive range of digital services repeatedly leads to the demand for the abolition of authorities under the cover of the administrative reform. However, where the authorities work close to the citizen, they do not belong to abolished but modernised. A modern administrative institution does not contradict eGovernment, but supports this instrument. Personal contact with the citizens must not be lost. In particular, district headquarters are economical facilities, and at this point I can refer to Upper Austria, where for each resident and year 66.5 € are spent; Austria is over 80 €. Ladies and gentlemen! To bring administration to the citizens, that is the goal, with e-government and personal contacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5408	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 750 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. If you also give your consent to this draft at third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is just as unanimously decided. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[15:26:36]] 8. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (781 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948 and the Law on Justice and Public Prosecutors' Service (833 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5459	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5483	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The government template, which is now under negotiation, is actually a special case-by-case example of how one should not make policy – I emphasize: not. Apart from the fact that this government template has its hard-wearing legal errors – references to law bodies that are no longer relevant or in force at all – and there was no review procedures – and no wonder; probably the opinions in this review procedure would have broken down this law anyway in the air – this government template entails a massive deterioration and serious service disadvantages for public servants. [[Abg. Lueger: That's not true!]] That is very true, Mrs Colleague. But to reject it is mainly because it is morally extremely questionable; morally questionable because of the previous history you probably know. The basis for this government template is a dispute that has reached the ECJ, which has then established that the previous practice is to be stopped in the event of pre-service periods and the setting of pre-emptive dates – because to the detriment of officials – and that there is a need for legal correction. What are you doing, Mrs. Federal Minister? – Instead of making this correction in a positive sense for the staff, instead of complying with this request from the European Court of Justice within the meaning of the officials and contract staff of the Republic of Austria, you are confronting us with a government template, which is exactly what has been prolonged by what has so far been illegal – in the future it should be permitted under law – namely, the procedure criticised by the ECJ in relation to non-respectable pre-service periods and pre-emptive periods. I must tell you that it is not possible to deal with his staff – neither as a businessman in the private sector nor as a responsible minister for the public service! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I think – and this is my concern – that it is not the administrative staff, it is not the administrative officials, we are talking about judges and prosecutors, we are talking about members of the federal army, of justice, of the judicial officials, of the judicial officials and of course also of the colleagues of the executive. You said in the committee that this government template was without any agreement with the police union. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: I didn't say that at all!]] I am already very excited, Mrs. Secretary of State, how your trade unionists of the FSG-dominated police union will explain to the police these disadvantages, these deteriorations. In any event, I can tell you that this is an occasion legislation in the most negative political sense, and therefore the FPÖ will not give its approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5542	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5564	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Herbert, it is not a matter of deterioration, it is a question of not paying an immensely high billions of money for a legal system that we have been in the contract staff law since 1948. - Only by knowing what we're talking about. We should at least discuss matters. We now have the problem with the contract staff, but I think that we are called together to find a fair and clean solution. We have already had to adapt many legal stocks to EU law since we are a member of the EU. That's it! With us it was just legal that we counted everything from the 18th century onwards. Year of life – we don't need to tell ourselves that, Mr Herbert, we are officials – and we have been able to live with it for the last decades. Now we have a new regulation, and I think we have a good regime and should also confess to it. It has been negotiated with social partners, we have been involved in the Committee until the last second and have negotiated. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have tried to take into account two groups of teachers. I really believe that this is a good solution and also a necessary one from time on. I invite you to give your consent to this amendment. Mrs Bundesminister, I am very grateful to you, to your officials. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity – dear friend Windholz, because you laugh: we are negotiating a BDG-Novelle – to thank me personally, but also on behalf of my group, very much for all public staff, especially the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and our parliamentary staff. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I think they're working enough with us, we're glad we got them. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5650	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5671	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The case of Hütter, negotiated at the European Court of Justice, brings us to action today. Mr. Otto Pendl, with all appreciation, if you still want to sell it as an “improvement”, I would like to tell you that I believe that the most common compromise is: This is a prevention of improvement, although the Court of Justice would actually provide for such an improvement. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] If you still like it so much, this common approach, how important it was for the preparation, I say to you as follows: Only the amendment you have just submitted shows what Husch-Fusch action this was. You make a change of law, you intervene in a legal system that no longer exists; Keywords of judges and prosecutors. You change to prevent improvement. How was the GOOD? – I can read something from a GÖD information from 16th century. June, namely: 15. June: draft law to the Council of Ministers; voice criticism of the Minister; It's called: Requests are made on account of times, so that no limitation occurs. At the time, some 50 000 applications had already been made. - Quote. Because of the fear of barrage complaints, one has decided on an action that is really to be criticised. What are the people concerned to think? I can give you an example: One decides to raise a salary for the public service, but says the state whistles out of the last hole. The staff cannot do anything about it, they simply say, then the tax rates are increased so that it is cost-neutral. Your aim was not to invest any more euro, and you are opposed to what the European Court of Justice has stated. So fame is none of that, a joint action with the trade union public service from the Minister is not at all recognizable. That was a husk-fusch action! I say what we actually need is an administrative and state reform, a reform of the right of employment and remuneration, in order to finally create incentives for public service providers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] Mrs Colleague, I would like to accept your call. You have the majority in the government, and therefore you and your coalition partners are the ones that block a reasonable reform so far; from whatever motives, it will always be called to the countries. They vote against everything and achieve with such husch-fush actions nothing but that you continue the state. That's a pity. Especially in the present situation, it is more than urgent that we move towards reforms – we are still reasonable to have, unfortunately not for such a Husch-Fuch-Action.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5748	According to Mr Pendl's impressive thanks, I have forgotten to say that the amendment he has tabled is, of course, being treated properly. [[Abg. Mr Pendl: Thank you, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is called partnership!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5838	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5860	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Herbert, you have already assembled in the Constitutional Committee that the police are getting worse, et cetera. You, Mr Windholz, are talking about a Husch-Fuch-Action. – I mean, let’s stick to the facts! A judgment of the European Court of Justice of 18 June 1990 June 2009 now, a year later, to implement a change of law, I believe, it cannot be a Husch-Pufsch action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Herbert.]] On the other hand, I also had criticism in the Constitutional Committee towards the Federal Minister. I have said that it is also necessary to involve the Public Service Union, and I have tabled a few proposals, if you can remember, to make changes. Mr Pendl has tabled this amendment, and we will decide today, in the version with the amendment. I do not understand one thing; for example, the European Court of Justice has stated in the judgment that, when calculating the pre-service periods for the pre-emptive date, the times prior to the 18th century were ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== And what Mr Herbert criticised with the police officers is exactly not true, because a police officer normally, in the normal case, has learned a profession and only after learning this profession comes to the police. That is why I do not understand your criticism. I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that she has been negotiating with the Public Service Trade Union. If you, Mr Herbert, and you, Mr Windholz, are told today that the staff in the GÖD have not been properly represented, then I can only refer to this: Our President, who is chairing here today, makes sure that everything is done for officials and officials in the public service so that they can get out well! I do not think anyone can say anything about this, and I would like to thank the President for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5908	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5930	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Much has already been said on the content of this draft. I do not want to continue, except here, to say that we agree with the draft and amendments, because they are the execution of a court judgment. However, I would like to address a few points – and I do not want to go unnecessarily along with this – because I would also like to use your presence, Mrs Federal Minister. I don't know if you're still talking. Perhaps you can give answers because it is not only statements on my part, but it could also be understood as questions. The one issue or thematic complex concerns civil servants' and salary rights, where you have long been in a Constitutional Committee in the prospect that there are discussions here that this should ideally be negotiated together, but that there is little room for manoeuvre due to the shortage of budget. I would simply be interested in what went on, because if I remember quite well, it is at least half a year ago – if not longer – that you have told us about this in the committee. Against this background, I would like to draw attention to the administrative reform which Mr Windholz has also mentioned. We have already discussed the chapter on school reform in the Administrative Reform Subcommittee, and there was an essential aspect – which is also appropriate to this item on the agenda – of the harmonisation in the service and remuneration law of federal and national teachers. To this end, it was unanimously expressed in the expert papers, but also in the discussions in the Committee, that a harmonisation is useful, yes necessary. The school reform is obviously still in the mills of federalism, or wherever it is. But that is where I have to give Mr Windholz the right or support it: It is not quite understandable why the government is so inactive. The subcommittee has already worked very hesitantly, and now it has been waiting for months, whenever an interim report, or whatever, will come. We have numerous packages that are on the table and which we can already consult, starting from health care and the efficiency of administration to pension reform and much more. That is why, if you have yet to speak, the question is also to you: Are you already involved in any discussions regarding service law federal and national teachers, salary and service reform? In addition, I would like the parliamentary parties, and specifically the government groups, to take up the administrative reform and this subcommittee in autumn and to work specifically. We are federal legislators, and the Federal Legislator can also, regardless of whether the countries are satisfied with our proposals or go along with them in a first step, form an opinion and make plans to actually legislate or at least negotiate with the countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e5984	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6005	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We think in solutions and not in problems! Yes, it was a problem there, a problem that could have cost us, the taxpayers, up to €3 billion, but none of the public servants will actually bring a deterioration in the existing system. If someone starts new in the public service, it may sometimes be that there are winners, sometimes losers. But we have been looking for a solution for this ECJ knowledge, and I do not see here in any way only the occasion to speak of an ad hoc or hush-fush or other decision, because it was not a round, but there were eight or nine rounds with the public service union, there were some individual talks that led to what is on the table today, namely a thing based on a completely right legal basis, whereby I do not raise the slightest doubts about the quality of the employees and thank me very much for all of them together looking for this solution and also finding it. It was indeed a need for action because we could not have afforded to wait for the summer until the first judgments had been pending and then we really should have spent up to €3 billion. What we can ensure with the improvement form is the following: Everyone and everyone can ask in the new area, in the new system that we are creating, whether he can see improvements or deteriorations here. I invite everyone to do this. I would just like to say that there is no prospect of any deterioration in public employment and that this solution will save us up to €3 billion. I thank you once again very much to all those involved in this new regulation, that now the completion of compulsory schooling and not the completed 18th. Year of life, were involved in finding this solution. On Mrs Musiol's question: Maybe many of you don't even know how many conversations we have. We have ongoing working groups, have ongoing discussions, but we have already agreed in recent weeks and months – the Public Service Union and I – that there is currently no money for a salary reform that would mean that we wanted to pay new staff in the public sector higher. That means when we're over talk about a new service right and a salary reform, then that cannot at the moment mean that we can spend only 1 cent more for it. Even if we wanted to, we can't! That is why these discussions are not taking place in the circle, but we are doing preparatory work if you want to, for times when a change will be possible. With regard to the teacher service law, it is true that Collaborin Schmied has begun to engage with the teachers' union, and I will engage as soon as we are so far as we can do so for the area of the Federal Teachers. However, I think it would be useful first of all to promote the joint training of all those employed in pedagogical professions before we talk again about separate salary guidelines for teachers in the country and in the federal area, but of course all this in connection with, as you say, an administrative reform that cannot take place in accordance with the Floriani principle, namely that every area and every level says: Yes, save it, but not with me! I believe that we must take this very seriously and importantly and that it must again be a subject at the next national conference: What about the country's contribution? – It cannot be that only the federal government makes its contribution and the countries say: Not with us! I would also like to say, with regard to the communities, which sometimes are not even eligible for payment, that expenditure on social welfare, youth welfare, for hospitals, is becoming really exorbitant, so that some communities can no longer make it. Therefore, once from the basement to the attic, if you want to do so, everyone has to search through their area and see how we can achieve an administrative reform, in which everyone wants to participate – not: they already, and the others do not want to. I would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to the solution to this age discrimination, which has been found exclusively and otherwise nothing. We have not been prescribed by the European Court of Justice to fix this. We have found a solution that I believe will not bring any deterioration. I believe that this is a solution with which all the staff and all the 50,000 who have applied can live, because they can apply for it with an improvement form anyway. Thank you very much to all those who have contributed!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6060	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6081	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues at the Hohen Haus! Mr Herbert, Mr Windholz, there was no mention of a salary increase, and there was no mention of a reform in terms of salary. If you raise expectations with colleagues and perhaps not so well now, this is your problem. But that was something that has never been promised, not even by our minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is true that the amendment was necessary on the basis of the ECJ judgment. Therefore, it was necessary that we adapt our laws here in such a way that we adapt our old, currently valid legal situation to the judgment that was passed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Herbert.]] – Mr Herbert, be careful, perhaps you will understand. The specific occasion was the different accounting and consideration of teaching periods or periods of apprenticeship training in the Federal Service. That was the occasion. Depending on whether it was before the 18th or after the 18th. It's either been counted or not. – So far we are d’accord. The fact that the law is supposed to constitute a bad position for the present staff was never the case. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Herbert.]] That's not true – you promised the staff, they're going to make money out of it, and now you have a problem explaining that. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] There is no deterioration, but there is no improvement for existing staff. The law simply has to re-regulate it, which now means putting it from the age of life on the criterion of compulsory schooling. [[Abg. Herbert: I don't think you understand yet!]] The criterion of compulsory schooling now means the regulation for the new colleagues, that school, service or teaching periods, which are in accordance with the 9th Directive. School level is, are counted, no matter when I did it. That's the goal of the whole thing. This is the variant that we need to adapt this law so far in accordance with EU law. We shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6142	Are there any further words? Please, Mr Herbert. Should I stop for a while, Mr. Colleague? How much? - Please. [[Abg. Herbert: (on the way to the speaker's desk)]] [[Abg. Grosz: Still speaking time of the whole group!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6192	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The last speech by Mr Lueger has prompted me to speak again. I believe that Mr Lueger has not recognized at all the fundamental problem and the problem that lies in this law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Colleague! That's not what it's all about. They're talking about salary increases and any other relationship. I have never spoken of wage increases, neither here in my speech nor in the committee. [[Abg. May. Lap: Always the others!]] It is about that with this bill the accounting of pre-service periods before the 18th century. Year of life will no longer be possible! That's the problem; you didn't realize that, I did. That is why I do not need to justify myself before my officials and contract staff, but probably your FSG staff representatives. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should take this to heart if you are here at the speaker's desk in the EU and say things you don't understand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6240	Further word messages are definitely not available. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. Vote on the draft law in 833 of the supplements: Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 11a in Art. 2 Z 4 as well as a new para. 11a in Art. 3 Z 10 to the content. Since only one request was made, I shall vote on the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary request made by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I would like to ask the Members who agree to this in order to give a positive signal. – This is decided by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent to the draft at third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[15:55:15]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (683 D.B._Other Organiser Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention of Statelessness in connection with the succession of States (834 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6301	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not required. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6328	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are today ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Statelessness as a result of State succession. Perhaps some still remember that it was not too long ago on our own border, in Czechoslovakia, in the course of the separation of the Czech Republic from Slovakia, that a lot of people suddenly became stateless. They still went to Czechoslovakia to vote on the successor order, lived on the Slovak territory now, had to give up Slovak citizenship in order to apply for Czech, and they did not get there or there or only with great effort. In particular, Roma groups were affected. Similarly, some of you certainly remember the Crimean Tatars: from Stalin to other areas of the former Soviet Union, returned home to Ukraine and other states, where they had no right to a new citizenship. So today – and I think, even in the future, because the process of the creation of new states seems never to be completed – this agreement is also of importance and is a key competence of the Council of Europe, which was founded to safeguard democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and is probably the most important institution worldwide to safeguard these central rights of individuals also towards its own state and towards all the powerful. A historic step was taken yesterday for the Council of Europe because the negotiations on the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe were started. That is very important! The European Union has its own Charter of Human Rights since Lisbon. This is, of course, similar to the European Convention on Human Rights, but also where The same thing is meant, not verbatim. For this reason, it could be very easy for the ECJ, the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights to come to different judicial bodies in the same way. That's something no one wants! Each country of the European Union is also a member of the Council of Europe and has signed the European Convention on Human Rights. In order to prevent such case law and conflicting judicates, it is important, in my view, for the European Union to accede to the Council of Europe's most important agreement. But that has a much bigger dimension and, from my point of view, more important dimension. It is the first time that a legal formation, a union of states, joins this Convention. It is also a clear sign that the EU is subject to its actions of jurisdiction in favour of democracy, human rights and the rule of law and is thus delegating part of its own power to institutions that have been created to protect individuals from authorities. I am also very grateful for this, and I assume that the negotiations on accession will be completed quickly and as quickly as possible. This will strengthen the Council of Europe, and that is very important from my point of view. I note that our newspapers unfortunately do not report anything about the Council of Europe. In this House too too few know about the Council of Europe. In any event, controversial judgments of the Court of Human Rights are debated in Austria. I therefore appeal to the Members of the Council of Europe, who are with me members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that Party policy objectives are not pursued as often as recently – ideological objectives according to the motto: I cannot put something into practice in the national state of my own, but perhaps I am able to do so on the way back to the Council of Europe to bring it back into national domestic legislation if some of the delegations have just national plenary sessions and are not there – that these attempts, which, in my view, are incredibly damaging to the Council of Europe as a whole, will in the future be reduced or completely neglected. The Council of Europe is too important for all of us to make it a gameball of party political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6389	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6411	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! This agreement, which we are ratifying today, has been drawn up by the Council of Europe in cooperation with the famous Venice Commission, which plays a very important role in this international organisation. Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Europe – and this has been pointed out briefly today – is the organization that was founded after the Second World War due to these terrible events in order to ensure peace on our continent. It was decided a lot in this international organization – not only the hymn comes from there. It has also been decided not only by the Council of Europe, but also by the Council of Europe. The European Court of Human Rights is a very important institution for citizens of our continent in order to ensure respect for the rule of law, for human rights. Human rights are always defence rights against the state and therefore something very important, something very necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we decide today on this agreement, it is about avoiding statelessness. For those who are concerned, statelessness is a terrible thing. What does statelessness mean? – It often also means lawlessness, often means having no home, does not mean having the opportunity to stand under the protection of a state. This Convention – in addition to other conventions which are of course already in force – specifically aims to create a convention for those citizens affected by a succession of states. It is very important for us here in Europe – since there were the successor states of the Soviet Union in 1989 or then the CIS – to ensure that all these citizens are not discriminated against. In this Convention is also the nature. 4 very central, prescribing anti-discrimination. This is an anti-discrimination article that states that citizenship is not lost due to belonging to national minorities – or due to belonging to other minorities in a state. This is a central question for all these citizens who could be affected. The fact that we in Austria are deciding on this document, this Convention, as one of the first countries to go to Norway, Moldova and Hungary, also emphasizes our role in the Council of Europe, which was always an active one, which was always a shaping one. [[Abg. Grosz: That's right!]] Our Foreign Minister, Michael Spindelegger, was head of our delegation for a very long time, as I am now. We had very important Presidents in this body, and I am therefore proud that we will play this role in this very important organisation and will continue to play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6472	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6522	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen – as far as still present at this advanced hour! I give my two previous speakers the right thing: This agreement, which we are now talking about, is sensiblely negotiated and formulated, although, of course, the practical benefits of the resolution of the overseas countries in Europe is an end to the end – but it is a good thing, and we are glad that there is that. However, this should not lead us into a European Council euphoria or a euphoria about the European Union joining the Council of Europe. This is just an example of bizarre developments in general organizationalism – otherwise I can no longer mention it – namely that the OECD meets and travels around the EU and the Interparliamentary Union via the Council of Europe, which costs a lot of money and does nothing and goes away. That's an important thing. We have already been on the subject of money, and the Council of Europe is not free. [[Abg. May. Worm:... to say word, is your thing!]] This is not something that lives by itself, but we pay a contribution of €4.6 million and have a message there with x employees. We're going to... – Now wait, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. May. Worm: Get active, Dr. Hübner!]] No matter how active we are, that costs a lot of money. What is being done in the Council of Europe? – The Council of Europe shall send the European Court of Human Rights and shall have an important role: He's organizing that this Court of Justice is working to which I'm going to come. Otherwise he debates, adopts resolutions, reports, travels countries and debates them with a result of zero comma zero. The Council of Europe has human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of thought in its statutes – yes, but the direction in which most of it goes is something else, because under the title... – Mrs Wurm, we can then speak immediately, but the speaking time here is limited, so I will come to you afterwards. [[Abg. May. Worm:... the only organization...!]] The path he has taken, however, goes exactly in the opposite direction: Under the suspension of gender, anti-discrimination or anti-injurious, one resolution after another is adopted, which rather restricts freedom of expression and restricts all of these rights for which the Council of Europe actually stands. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Abolition of...!]] The European Court of Human Rights is a beautiful organisation, but this is also one of those things that are not particularly useful for Austria, because we are being prescribed by the European Court of Human Rights, as we regulate our media landscape, as we do the media procedures, is also problematic. This is just as problematic as we are being monitored by the OECD under the chairmanship of Kazakhstan. These are bizarre developments, you really have to say. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I have the impression...! Mr. Hübner, should we leave the world?]] For Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, it may not be bad that the OECD is monitoring its elections, but it is not doing anything there, but that the OECD is monitoring us under Kazakhstan's Presidency – with all the world's departure fantasy you have right there – you are probably also going to see at least as a currency. I'm not saying we can leave everywhere. I am not saying at all, as you know, that we are drawing back on the 86 421 square kilometres, which Mr President Fischer has gratefully mentioned today, and that is why we are building a curtain. [[Abg. Grosz: With the Swiss Guard!]] I'm not saying that. But the argument that one cannot live on 86,000 square kilometres as on an island cannot stand as a deadlock argument for spreading the coat of silence over all the misdevelopments and all the rigours that widen at the expense of our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6656	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6678	Mr President. I can fully agree with my previous speakers Gisela Wurm and Karin Hakl, and I do not need to repeat in detail why this is a very useful proposal that we are dealing with today, and why the Council of Europe is a very good thing. But if we are already in the field of statelessness and the prevention of statelessness, I would like to say a good word about how counterproductive Austrian citizenship policy is, which leads to double citizenship. Why can't hundreds of thousands of foreign Austrians have double citizenship? In part, they have serious disadvantages to purchase wherever they live, and unless they cannot participate in political life in the narrower sense – that is, they cannot participate in elections – without Austria having an advantage of it, because they would normally have to give up Austrian citizenship in order to accept foreign citizenship. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that is what the other state demands, Mr. Colleague!]] – No, no, that’s not what all states demand, that’s not true at all. [[Abg. Scheibner:... no problem!]] - Do you have any idea?- Oh, my God! I know about my own closer relationship. My sister-in-law married a British woman, had considerable disadvantages because he was a British citizen – still British officer at that time – and she could not accept British citizenship because she was the Austrian... – apologies, yes. [[Abg. Scheibner: When was that, colleague? When was that?]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... sleeping a novelle?]] Let's have a survey with the Austrians abroad, how many of them believe that they can retain Austrian citizenship if they accept the foreign – and be it only the German – by an application, not by awarding it, of course. One of my married nephews has three citizenships. He has been favoured by an Austrian father and a French mother from birth – if you want to – and the third, because he was born in the USA – Jus solo instead of the other principle we have here. I think this makes a lot of sense. He can also work in the US, for example, I don't think so – at least not without further information. My grandsons are double-citizens – Austrian-austral – but for the parents this is not possible without further action, and that is not long ago. I know, with the football players and musicians and so on, we are much more generous, but in all normal cases this is not the case. That was my plea. That is a good proposal, it will be adopted unanimously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6778	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6800	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen, just briefly: A few years ago, there was a novel of the Citizenship Act, which facilitates Austrian citizens who are abroad to also accept other citizenship – effect: Double citizenship – because we have an interest in it the other way around. Maybe you can still read it. To the Council of Europe: We will give our support to this request because it makes sense to avoid statelessness. However, it shows a little bit of the dilemma in which the Council of Europe is located because this proposal has come a little late. In the area of the Council of Europe and its Member States there have been these problems in recent years, and it has taken a very long time to reach a solution. This is also a bit symptomatic in total. I myself was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly for five years in the 1990s – an important assembly at this time, but it is now a bit in a sense crisis because the European Union has taken over many of the tasks that the Council of Europe had in the past. If the Council of Europe now – as I hear – deals with the question of whether the term parent should be abolished – father and mother – and converted into parent 1 and parent 2, because father and mother are sexistic, then I really wonder if we have no other concerns and problems in Europe than to regulate them. [[Call the FPÖ:Father and mother!]] We agree, but we should consider what tasks the Council of Europe should undertake in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6842	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6864	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Knowing that the law of citizenship and nationality affects the cores of state sovereignty, this legal matter nevertheless brings with it essential human rights aspects and issues of international refugee and stateless law. Article 15 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, among other things, assigns to everyone the right to be a national and also states that no one may be arbitrarily deprived of nationality or the right to accept another nationality. Following the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Statelessness in connection with the succession of states, I believe that it is particularly important to respect non-discrimination in the implementation of this State Treaty – as my colleague Gisela Wurm has already mentioned. It is also important to pay attention to the responsibility of the succeeding State, and I also believe that the rules of proof and proof are very important: that one does not insist on them. If the provision of evidence is not reasonable, then you should take away from it. A very important point, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, also the prevention of statelessness at birth. The adoption of this Convention of the Council of Europe today constitutes an essential step, a major step towards the development of human rights. We need stateless, ladies and gentlemen, our support. Citizenship only allows people access to justice and a decent existence. In this sense, I would like to thank the fact that this agreement will be adopted unanimously. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e6930	That was the last word. No further word messages are required. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention of Statelessness in connection with the succession of States in 683 of the Supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, according to which the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty. 2 Z 3 Federal Constitutional Act is to be fulfilled by passed laws. If you give your consent, I ask you for a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. [[16:17:13]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 44/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on referendum on the exit from the Euratom Treaty (835) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 49/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, Members and colleagues, on the collapse of the Czech AKW Temelín (836 D.B.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 50/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the completion of nuclear power stations 3 and 4 in the Slovak Mochovce (837 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 162/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gernot Darmann, colleagues on the construction of a new reactor in Krško (838 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7019	We now come to points 10 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speech was made by Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7044	Mr President. High house! EURATOM – a lot has already been discussed. I will briefly outline why we believe that something has to happen. So far, the government has heard that we cannot withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty because a termination is not possible. – Reason: There is an opinion of the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, in which it was found that it was not possible to withdraw from this Treaty or terminate it under the Lisbon Treaty. On the other hand, there are four opinions from renowned Austrian constitutional lawyers who say, of course, that it is possible to terminate this contract or withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty – simply because it is a permanent debt ratio. In the contract itself, there is no exclusion from termination or any presumption of termination of other third persons, so you can cancel it – like any contract – as any. Why cancel it, and why, in our view, do we have to cancel it? – Because we here have an insoluble internal contradiction between our constitutional situation – our abandonment of the use of nuclear energy – that is a constitutionally secured principle of our legal system – and membership in the EURATOM Treaty. One has to make the effort to look into the EURATOM Treaty once, even if it is a long and bulky document, and at least read the Preamble or Article 1. This preamble states that in the 1950s, when the EURATOM Treaty was concluded, various Majestys – the king of the Belgians, the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg – and so on have set up the Treaty “IN REALLYING that nuclear energy is an indispensable source of aid for the development and recovery of the economy and for peaceful progress” and “ DESIRING to create the conditions for the development of a powerful nuclear industry that expands energy generation, modernizes technology and contributes to the prosperity of its peoples in many other areas”. – This is the Preamble to this. Article 1, which summarizes what this EURATOM community is to do, says: The Community’s task is “to contribute, by creating the conditions necessary for the rapid formation and development of nuclear industries, to raising living in the Member States and developing relations with other countries. ” – This is how the text goes on for hundreds of pages. As a result, I would like to explain why membership in such an organization is reasonable and reasonable for us in the light of the principles of the Austrian legal order previously quoted. The question of whether anyone will object to a termination or a withdrawal or perhaps even challenge the European Court of Justice is something else. The question we have to answer is: Do we want to stay in there, or don't we want to stay in there? – If we don't want to stay in there, we have to cancel the contract. If we are forced to stay inside, well, then we will see what we are going to do, worst of all, we are staying inside, but we as representatives of the people must at least put the initiative here: That is incompatible with our legal order, so we quit. Nor can it depend on whether, when we quit, we can really get back money and reduce our contribution. That's what I'm saying: There is no own EURATOM contribution, so you can't cut it out and say that we will save €6.7 million, but we still have to get out of this organization. Only the provision of EURATOM, participation in The structures, the meetings and so on cost a lot of money. So that's what we're saving ourselves. And we end this state of internal inconsistency and also the inner falsehood that we actively participate in such an organization, that we send their bodies and that we also pay knowingly for them. I believe that these are the arguments enough for us to come closer to our request. We have called for a referendum, as there has so far been no willingness on the part of the government parties to step up an exit within the framework of this House. Unfortunately, since we do not have the majority and cannot take the decision ourselves, we have proposed: Let us explain this to the people, because the people have so far decided on the nuclear question, and the legal situation we have today has come about on the basis of a popular decision, namely a genuine referendum. That is why I would like to ask you to agree to our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7107	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7128	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I and most of the Austrian population understandably reject nuclear energy because of non-calculated risks. Anti-Atom policy is consistently pursued by our Environment Minister Niki Berlakovich. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] It is strongly committed at European and bilateral level against individual nuclear power plants and nuclear energy in general. However, it must not be forgotten that the circumstances in Europe and in the international context of nuclear energy have changed recently. Existing nuclear power plants are being operated longer, and the performance of old nuclear power plants is often increased. States such as Italy or recently Sweden have decided to exit. This is a development which we regrettably need to take note of. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Just not!]] But that also means that we have to react accordingly. We all need to work together for maximum safety, through the creation and development of safety standards, especially at European level. I also consider the consistent control of these safety parameters at European level to be particularly important. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If someone is critical of the EURATOM Treaty, he has my full support. The current form of the EURATOM Treaty should be fully reformed in the sense of Austrian interests. Ladies and gentlemen, reforming this treaty in our sense can only be done if you are a contractual partner. Although the Treaty of Lisbon introduced for the first time an explicit exit clause in the European Treaties, top judges have concluded that an isolated exit from the EURATOM Treaty is still not possible. Therefore, we should try to reform the EURATOM Treaty from within: First, changes in safety, second, in the field of unfair promotions for nuclear energy as a whole. From an Austrian point of view, nuclear energy cannot be reconciled with the principles of sustainable development and therefore not a cost-effective and sustainable option to combat the greenhouse effect. The Ministry of Life, led by Minister Berlakovich, has achieved in the course of discussions at European level that nuclear energy is not considered sustainable. Due to Austrian initiative, nuclear energy will also have no place in the flexible instruments of the Kyoto Protocol. Ladies and gentlemen! Decisions on national energy policy are, in principle, the responsibility of the national sovereign. Since we do not see nuclear energy as an option for energy generation, we need to consistently continue the Austrian path to more energy efficiency and more renewable energy. I am particularly pleased to see the initiative of the Climate and Energy Fund, which implements a programme for climate and energy model regions for an energy-independent future. Ladies and gentlemen! You will not be surprised that my home region, the forest district, has set itself as the first region to become energy self-sufficient. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, it doesn't surprise us!]] We have already implemented many projects in this context. The Environmental Control Report also gives a good witness to Austria's initiatives. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But really not!]] And this in a wide range of areas, Mrs Colleague, if you look at it more closely. On the one hand, we are nuclear-free, on the other we are genetic-free. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Oh!]] We are at the forefront of renewable energy, we have an extremely high share of organic farming. In summary terms, with regard to this item on the agenda: Renewal of the Treaty from within for the benefit of Austrian interests and consistent continuation of the Austrian path for the benefit of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7224	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it does not look quite as good in Austrian environmental policy as my previous speaker has now said. We are at the end of the day as far as eco electricity promotion is concerned, we are at the end of climate protection, unfortunately we are anything but an environmental model country. The only thing that still exists in Austria is a broad anti-atomic consensus here in the house – probably with the exception of Mr Schüssel, who turns into a nuclear group, which I find unbearable by the way, which is why I also think that he has to relinquish his mandate – but at least in the Austrian population. I was only recently in a school where children watched a film about the consequences of Chernobyl, children who did not experience this accident, this super-GAU at the time, where obviously there was also a very great disaster. I think anyone who has experienced this and who sees it is clear that such a thing can never happen again. That such a thing never happens again, but is not guaranteed. There are various reactors in planning around Austria, very, very unsafe cars with high safety risks, with also dubious procedures taking place. There are now some requests on the agenda, including Mochovce and Temelín, and I think that if we do not want such a thing to happen again, it is also the task of the Austrian Federal Government to work consistently for it. And it is not enough if you bring an event to Austria in the case of Mochovce, or if you do something to your colleague in Slovakia, but you also have to do it actively. The procedure there is not EU-compliant. This is where the European Union offers us that Austria is also taking appropriate action here. The same thing with Temelín. The Ministry of the Environment is aware that since the EIA will begin, the EIA can now be possible at any time. This is also the FPÖ's request. By the way, we will all agree to your requests. If there is now no clarity as to whether the Melker Agreement is binding or not, it is now simply the task of the Federal Government to ensure and clarify that this agreement must and must be binding under international law. The commitment that our Federal Government has so far made to this is, I think, very inadequate, because at European level there would also be various possibilities. If you talk to NGOs there – Mr Widmann and I were also at a meeting of parliamentarians in Brussels – when you talk to parliamentarians from other countries, you can see that there is a great deal possible here, especially when you offer alternatives, an atomic exodus is possible. And if you say now, Mr Hornek, that you have to take note of this if other countries are now re-establishing nuclear energy: Not exactly! We must not take note of it, as the Austrian Federal Government simply has to strive for alliances and offer alternatives. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Weinzinger.]] At EU level, of course, I come to the EURATOM Treaty. We have also tabled a similar proposal to the Environment Committee, where we call on the Federal Government to leave, because these possibilities exist. I do not see at all why at European level there is a treaty that deals with just one form of energy, even if it is an energy form that is highly risky, which is not a future solution, not even for climate change. So if there is already a contract, then an energy contract that involves all energy forms and supports them according to their future potential. And there is simply the renewable energy that is the solution to climate change, which is the solution for more environmental protection and also for clean energy. All the money that is still going into nuclear energy is going to be spent on renewable energies. This is also very worrying, especially when you look at the periods that we have available for solving the climate problem. It is therefore up to Austria to set clear signs here and to withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty. If you now, in your request, in the request made by the Federal Government – including my colleague, who has spoken before – you find that the efforts to reform the EURATOM Treaty will continue, I think, then this is more a threat than anything else, because the efforts have failed so far, and the role that Austria has taken in doing so was a very, very passive one. And I don't want that to go on. I think it is an obligation of Austria or just a possibility that Austria has to show it to other countries, too, that it can go differently. And that's where I'm thinking about renewable energies. I was recently at the EIA negotiations around an AKW in Belarus, where it was said by Belarusians that there was no other way. Belarus, by the way, is the country most affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and I find it particularly depressing if this country is to rebuild a nuclear power plant. But they say we see no alternative, unfortunately, because renewable energies are too expensive for us. That would be the role that Austria would have to take, in my opinion, to say clearly: There are alternatives, we show it! – Unfortunately, we do far too little to present Austria as a model country for renewable energy and to show other countries in Europe how different it can be, in order to work consistently in this way also on a nuclear exodus in Europe. I believe that this would be a huge opportunity for Austria too, and this is the opportunity for a non-atomic Europe. Therefore, consent to the applications. By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong, committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7324	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7345	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the request concerning the exit from the EURATOM Treaty and explain why we reject it. But first of all, a few comments to clarify this: For the SPÖ, nuclear power is not a possible form of energy supply. It is not solved, neither the security question nor the question of the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste. And you all know about the subsequent damage: Death, cancers, malformations, and damage to the inheritance. Even though the lobbyists of nuclear energy believe that morning air is whiting – I am thinking, for example, of the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico or of climate change – the world cannot be supplied with nuclear energy, because there is not enough uranium for that. Above all: Nuclear power is also expensive, too expensive, not economically, especially if one calculates the cost of the final storage. Nuclear power needs to be highly subsidized and is therefore not a technology for the future. The request made by the SPÖ together with the ÖVP makes this clear. We will continue to represent this position with consistency in the EU and also internationally. Now to the EURATOM Treaty. By joining the EU, Austria was also a contracting partner of the EURATOM Treaty. A one-sided, isolated exit is not possible, even if you do not want to take note of it. An opinion by the Constitutional Service and the 2008 International Law Bureau has examined this issue in detail and in depth, and it is clear from this conclusion that one-sided withdrawal, as you demand, is not possible from a European and international point of view. In addition to proposing a way which is not legally possible, I do not think this request is useful, because Austria's contribution to the EU budget, as you have already mentioned, Mr Hübner, would be due to a withdrawal the Treaty does not reduce it. We would have to co-finance EURATOM, but would not have the possibility of taking influence anymore. For this reason, Austria has been working together with Germany, Ireland, Sweden and Hungary for the rapid convening of a review conference on the EURATOM Treaty some time ago. That is the way we must go, and this also confirms our request that we have tabled. In spite of this, it is necessary that the Austrian Federal Government continues to work consistently to safeguard the security interests of the Austrian population, especially in the near-border nuclear power plants. The risks associated with the peaceful use of nuclear energy are great, but the risks from nuclear weapons are much more problematic. In February of this year, a request for support for a world without nuclear weapons was decided by all parties. We know that the only alternative to a dangerous, unhindered nuclear contest is just a world without nuclear weapons. To achieve this, nuclear-free zones have already been built, as is now envisaged for the Middle East. To this end, a conference will be held in 2012, and Austria should follow the tradition of Kreisky and engage in the question of preparing the talks, preparing the talks, getting the conference to Vienna and making Vienna the hub in these negotiations. I think we should face this challenge and accept it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7406	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7428	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we here in the House are all opposed to the use, against the peaceful and, of course, against military use, of nuclear energy. It's just the question of how to try to enforce it. And that is exactly where we are obviously – I regret it – different opinions or different opinions, because it would be important for us, as one of the few countries in Europe, to stand firm against the use of nuclear energy, which is also targeted and expressed with one voice. Mrs Muttonen, you have also mentioned military use and the Middle East. Full support, but it also needs clear words here. But as clear words as they are used to act against Iran and against other countries suspected of developing such weapons are also necessary to act against those countries that already have these weapons, such as Israel in the Middle East. A sustainable anti-atomic policy, including anti-nuclear policy, will only be achieved if measures are taken against all countries which already have or are trying to develop these weapons. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It is also necessary to speak clear words in the peaceful use of nuclear energy. I very much regret that these clear words are missing in the resolution you have put in the committee. When it says here that the safeguarding of the security interests of the Austrian population in relation to the To devote the greatest attention to nuclear power stations close to the border by means of appropriate measures is then, honestly, to me, too little. There is a popular desire with 900,000 signatures against Temelín. There were many initiatives that we have set for a zero solution in the nuclear power stations. The aim must therefore be not only to keep in mind the safety interests but also to support the closure of these nuclear power plants. That is why we also support all the requests that go in this direction. I regret that countries such as Finland and Sweden are now re-establishing new nuclear power plants. It would be necessary for Austria to be more clearly opposed to this development than it is in this resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7482	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7503	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this consensus, namely not to use nuclear power peacefully in Austria, is – or is not unfortunately; Thank God in reality – the autonomy of all the Member States of the European Union, namely autonomy, to decide on the energy mix they want to use. This presents problems for us because, as one of the few countries, almost in an island, we live a nuclear-free zone and have to fight with nuclear power stations all around it. I would like to try to deal with both things, both at border and at EURATOM. As far as the power plants are concerned, the European Commission has also examined the extent to which the environmental impact assessment laws of Slovakia and the Czech Republic are EU law. In both cases, the European Commission has come to realize that they are not as far as access to justice is concerned. In both cases, once a little earlier, once in autumn or winter last year and once a few weeks ago, in the case of the Czech Republic, these two laws have also been amended nationally. It would be important for the Minister of Agriculture to come as a competent person now and to urge the European Commission to examine very quickly whether the directives of the European Commission are really being complied with in these novels and whether these cross-border environmental impact assessment procedures also comply with the relatively good EIA law of the European Union. That, I think, will still be too late for the question of Mochovce, because the procedure is much wider than the law. In the case of the Czech Republic and Temelíns, where the new decision of the new Federal Government, that we really want to expand, exists only now, but the 2008 EIA proposal is – in other words, still in line with the old law – I have more hope that one can try to bring itself as a neighbor in this now coming EIA than Austria, and to see that our very good arguments regarding Security is also really heard and implemented politically. A second thought about EURATOM: In addition to legal matters, it is also important to clarify the political issue. And apart from the question of whether you would save yourself contributions or not – you wouldn't save yourself that de facto –: It's a little inconspicuous when we say, on the one hand, that Austria has to stand for a core. Integrating power-free Europe – of course I too am undivided of this opinion – but on the other hand, on the platform where we could do it, namely in EURATOM, do not give up on our right of participation. This would also prevent us from insisting, in any case, on the fact that the whole EURATOM funding policy goes away from the implementation of new reactors, from positive nuclear research to greater safety, to the safeguarding of scrappings and cetera. For political reasons, I do not consider myself entirely to be necessarily for wisdom's final conclusion. I am afraid we will discuss this issue more often here. In my view, it is undisputed that the Austrian Federal Government represents a clearly nuclear-critical line, represented in the past and is certainly represented in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7555	Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7576	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Pre-Revelationary! That is not the case that the Austrian Federal Government or the current government parties or your party would have always totally rejected the nuclear power. I'm thinking of Zwentendorf. I was still actively involved when we ran against Zwentendorf Propaganda. To this end, many of your comrades of the time kept to me the following beautiful saying: Winter nuclear opponents with candlelight and cold butt. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That's how you saw it back then. In the meantime, the attitude has changed completely – not only because Kreisky lost this referendum at the time, not only because your great Sun king has moved from it in a grotesque way, but above all because of it, because a lot has happened in the meantime. We remember Chernobyl with horror! Another thing: People have now come up with it: We can't leave the generations in the centuries after ourselves some dangerous concrete sorghum! Where are we going to put that trash? At the moment you try some mines and then it comes to the point that it is extremely dangerous that water flows through them, comes back to the surface and is then irradiated. The possibility of shooting the waste into the sun with a huge rocket is not yet given. So, mine. Ladies and gentlemen: It is of course necessary to get out of this nuclear power, as soon as possible! That's not a question at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you say, with an eiertanz so much, we couldn't get out of EURATOM, you know very well that that's not true. They simply don't trust themselves – because we are the EU's model students, because we do everything in advance obedience, even if we have to do something that is against our, if you like, state philosophy! And our state philosophy is now: nuclear-free – both in terms of weapons and in terms of nuclear power. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we have three problems at our border. Let me say two of these: Czechoslovakia has been surprisingly separated – for most of us, but not surprisingly for us. It has separated and formed two states. Both countries have taken over an inheritance, namely old nuclear power plants according to the construction of the old Soviet Union. They were insecure, like Chernobyl. However, these nuclear power plants have not only taken over these two new states, the Czech Republic or the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but also their neighbours – and that is what we are. As the Upper Austrian, I know exactly what this Temelín means for us. That's almost right at our border. If something happens there, we're all Upper Austrians. Even the innviertlers, like I am. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Then we conducted negotiations, these famous Melker negotiations – with the result that the Czechs are now saying: This has no legal significance at all; we have just led it because we are friendly people. But they did not do anything! That is why we are proposing. By the way: The application was filed on 25 May. November 2008. He was treated in the committee only on 1 January. July 2010 – that with a view to smooth treatment of opposition applications! [[Abg. Wenninger: That's all going off, back!]] The second application, which was made by Mochovce, was filed on 15 May. On October 1, 2009, we were “sensationally fast ” until October 1, 2009. ==References== Both of these amendments are now before the vote. It's about putting a sign and making it clear: Yes, we, the Republic of Austria and thus this their high house stand to the state philosophy of this state, and that is, No to nuclear power! Please give your heart a boost and agree to our requests! They have waited a long time and have therefore hopefully been well treated. Treat them well too!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7653	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7674	Mr President. Foreign Minister! High house! Colleague Lutz Weinzinger to stay with Bruno Kreisky: Learn S ́ story! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The German chancellor Dr. Bruno Kreisky, whom you referred to as the "Sun king", did not go far from politics after the referendum on Zwentendorf, but in 1979 celebrated the largest electoral triumph of social democracy in the history of the Second Republic, because the Austrians were grateful for this first plebiscite, for the first popular decision! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] – We cannot discuss this, Mr Westenthaler. These are historical facts. We have two different approaches. Mr Brunner wants to appoint Austria from the EURATOM Treaty, we say Social Democrats: Co-operation, participation and changes the structures from the inside. In our opinion, apart from scholarly disputes of the lawyers, a withdrawal from the EURATOM Treaty for the anti-CFC policy of Austria would be counterproductive. We would therefore take any influence and any co-decision in the European nuclear policy. I believe that it would rather be the task of the Austrian Parliament to support the reform efforts within the EURATOM Treaty through its own initiative, but also through the support of the Austrian Federal Government, and finally to adopt the idea that the EURATOM structure would be a purely nuclear power authority. Mr Hübner has quoted from the historical Preamble. In the meantime, 60 years have passed. The EURATOM authorities are now also an important platform for monitoring the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, but also for radiation protection in Europe. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of high and binding security standards, of safeguarding Austrian security and environmental interests and of ensuring the enforcement of cross-border civil rights. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's about billions for the nuclear industry!]] Especially in times of a menacing renaissance of nuclear energy, in which more and more states, under the pretext of climate targets and resource scarcity, are provoking the “out of the way out”, it is important that Austria is strong and determined in anti-nuclear policy. I therefore invite you to accept our motion for a resolution. By the way, I am of the opinion: It is not about the withdrawal from a contract, but about the exit from the nuclear power.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7735	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7756	Mr President. High house! One has the impression that after Mr Hornek's lecture and the colleagues' lip confessions against nuclear power – one wants to get out, one wants to promote renewable energy – the issue ultimately goes to defend EURATOM. When I listen to the last speeches, I really think nothing is moving: neither at the ÖVP nor at the SPÖ. This is certainly the wrong way! [[Abg. May. Muttons: Have you heard bad?- Oh, my God!]] The Austrians clearly and impressively demonstrated in the referendum 30 years ago that they reject nuclear power. Recent surveys also show that 80 percent EURATOM do not want to. Now I wonder why we are still in this agreement. This is obviously the general dilemma of this federal government, which does not make an anti-atomic policy, but at best speaks of anti-atomic policy in Sunday's speeches. We are surrounded by high-risk reactors! Another reactor will be built in Krško, which will be extended. [[Abg. Riepl: Do we know anyway?]] The same type of reactor will be in Puerto Rico Rico for security reasons, but we're building that down there! – The tie fits, Mr. Cap. [[In the direction of the Abg. Dr. Cap, who's just getting his tie straight:]] You might need to make the button a little bit tighter. Yeah, that's right. That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Really?- Oh, my God!]] On Temelín, Mr Cap: At that time Chancellor Schüssel, Prime Minister Zeman and Commissioner Verheugen were there. Nevertheless, we are fighting today to see whether this treaty is recognised by international law, Mr Cap! They could take initiatives to ensure that those safety measures that have been included in the supplement – the 28.8-metre stage, the valves – are finally implemented so that Lutz can: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Nicken des Abg. Dr. Cap]] Weinzinger can also live safely in the Inn district in the future. That would make sense. Next topic is Mochovce. Two blocks are also to be built there, although this building is of Soviet origin and does not meet the standards. I am already with this Federal Government. What are you doing? On the one hand, you are a climate-political high-speeder – think of the Kyoto targets that have not been achieved, and we ultimately have to pay billions – on the other hand, you are an energy-political low-flyer in Austria. You don't do any energy strategy, you don't bring anything else to make Austria more energy-autarchic. Mr Brunner mentioned it, both of us were on 7 and 8. In June, in Brussels, and against EURATOM mobilised. I can clearly explain this – to the legal person I still come to speak –: Would you pay car tax if you didn't have a car? However, you from ÖVP and SPÖ are obviously happy to pay nuclear tax to EURATOM, although we do not have nuclear power and say no to this form of large-scale energy use, namely nuclear power! That's why the exit, I mean, is more than necessary. The EU is already discussing concepts for renewable energy, an energy community. It will also be a question of whether we still want to see the energy mix that has been addressed in the future can really be freely available, that any country can really come out of the nuclear power plants in the future, or whether we really need to fix the common exit. Also this morning I saw in the news: For example, the German Federal Environment Agency says that Germany could be energy self-sufficient by 2050! Only because the nuclear industry apparently drives its own game. To the exit, to the legal situation, to the contract – I took it, he has already been quoted a lot –: It is really about building a powerful nuclear industry in Europe and supporting it, and nothing else! It is a matter of implementing safety standards for the protection of the population. I ask you: Where are these safety standards? – We have Russian nuclear power plants in the middle of Europe, with a technology that is far obsolete! It is about facilitating investment in nuclear power and providing the Community with ores and nuclear fuels. I ask you, Minister of Foreign Affairs: Where is Austria dealing with nuclear energy or with nuclear fuels? So I don't know anything about it! In addition, there is constant talk of participation. Sage She finally said: What have you negotiated so far? I don't know any results! Put the facts on the table and tell them that and we have achieved that! – You have not achieved anything except that we can pay € 40, 50, 60, 80 million each year through the EURATOM Treaty. Then you say that leaving would not be legally possible, and you rely on a single opinion. On the other hand, there are four constitutional law experts, international lawyers, who say that this is very well - according to the old legal order, before the 1. ==References== I say that quite consciously, because that was the Lisbon Treaty. They always want to sell Europe to the Austrians. Then use this contract! Then: The legal situation has changed. It was before the 1st. The constitutional experts – the Federal Chancellor does not say that – are able to get out of EURATOM on December 2008, according to the Vienna Convention on Contract Law, according to international law. But the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has said that it is not possible. And now we have the situation that we have the Lisbon Treaty and the first stretch of Article 49a of the Lisbon Treaty to the EURATOM Treaty can also be removed from this Treaty. I ask you to simply try other lawyers. Ask experts who really understand something about it, and not the court judges from the Federal Chancellery! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then you will find that this EURATOM Treaty is now an independent, legitimate treaty through the Lisbon Treaty, and is now no longer part of the EU Treaty. That means that you can ultimately get out of this contract. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Mr Foreign Minister – I am missing in this discussion, as well as the Federal Chancellor, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment – you are doing something! [[Abg. Head: In which committee has this been dealt with?]] Take advantage of the benefits of the Lisbon Treaty – I am now – for Austria, for renewable energy, for jobs, for climate protection, and finally withdraw from this EURATOM Treaty! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] People are behind you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7897	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7918	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! I would just like to talk briefly about nuclear power. We know exactly that nuclear energy is the energy with the world's lowest resources, that in the electrical field only about 3.5 percent of the energy requirement would be possible nuclear power generation for a few decades. The supply of these raw materials is therefore much worse than oil or coal, and therefore this form of energy production is not really an innovation or a future solution. We also know that wherever the uranium raw material is found and lifted, it is generally very corrupt and sometimes very wary – for example Congo. So it's not necessarily a peace-making technology. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We also know, however, that the sun, wind, but also carbon-bearing waste is justly distributed around the world in rough quantities and therefore must be the approach here. I am very optimistic that there will already be innovations from Austria in the foreseeable future, which will make the field of solar energy so profitable and competitive that nuclear energy, which is the most highly subsidized and essentially uneconomical, will become obsolete by itself. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I even believe that it will be so that these innovations will be implemented faster than a EURATOM exit if we decide today because we know that an EURATOM exit would also have to be approved and decided by the other EURATOM Member States, and that would take years. I am deeply convinced that we have already developed very reasonable alternative technologies, partly from Austria, and that this will solve the question of nuclear energy by itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7963	The next speaker was Mr Jannach. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e7987	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! All three or four requests to the Czech AKW Temelín, to Mochovce, including to the Slovenian Krško, find our full support. And all these applications express the concern of the population about nuclear power. There is this popular desire, there has already been the rejection of Zwentendorf. I really have to ask everyone here in Parliament, especially the SPÖ and ÖVP Members: What do you do when something happens? What do you do if anything happens in Mochovce, in Bohunice or in Krško? – Then, Mr Foreign Minister, no more use protest notes with any objections. Then you are the first to be in the beam protection bunker and send Protestant notes to Prague, Pressburg and Liège. It's just that the population won't help anything. This is about security in our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Widmann has already mentioned it: What are the results of the Austrian delegation to the EURATOM body? – No result is known. The only thing we know is that we have paid € million in this EURATOM company, which is there to promote nuclear energy in Europe, and continue to pay. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It is significant when Mr Hornek goes out and says: Unfortunately, we can't do anything about that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] It is extremely curious if you say that Mr Berlakovich, the Minister for the Environment, has produced a study on nuclear energy, which notes that nuclear energy will not be considered sustainable. I want to know what this study costs and what it brings. Every citizen in Austria knows that nuclear energy is not sustainable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We all know here in the hall and we agree on this – even the Members of this House have said it – and there are very, very serious risks in nuclear energy. Many have said that there is a waste disposal problem that is huge. We demand that the population be integrated. We do not want more than the right of the population to vote on an atomic-free zone, but not only in Austria, because we have it. But it does nothing if nuclear power plants are standing right after the border, which have a massive impact on the health and safety of the Austrians and on our environment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] You're the first one to sit with his family in the beam protection bunker when something happens! You have the responsibility here! You could do something here in the high house, but you can't do it! You've been talking for decades, the nuclear power has to disappear, but you haven't reached anything outside the borders. We really just want to know what is being negotiated by Austrian side in this EURATOM body. Mr Minister, we ask you, in the interests of the safety and health of the Austrians, not to give any Sunday speeches, to make no beautification of the nuclear power. Act in your responsibility as Foreign Minister for the Safety and Health of the Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e8083	Mr Pirklhuber has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e8104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign Minister! Many Members have already been able to make it clear here, I believe, that in this case the Federal Government is clearly more than fair. She's just too paralysed, and she doesn't do anything, she doesn't do anything. Mr Gartlehner, what you say is correct here is all right, for example if you say that in Congo there are huge problems throughout the raw material management et cetera up to the civil war. – Yes, please, this is a technology that is not sustainable; that is fact. The EURATOM Treaty clearly ensures the competitiveness of the nuclear economy, the nuclear lobby in Europe. And that's dramatic. 60 billion euros go to nuclear research, to nuclear technology, and we continue to pay for it. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. Why? – It threatens, that has already been noted, a real revival of nuclear energy. The Atom Lobby is running at all levels – Mr Scheibner mentioned it. There are also discussions in Sweden, Finland and Italy. In Germany, the duration of the nuclear power stations was extended. Additional risks are threatening in the future, and their elimination needs to be addressed today. Here there is only a clear message from the Austrian point of view. I myself, as a student, ran for the popular desire of Zwentendorf at that time. I know what that means, how the wind went in a different direction at the time, and we have fought hard to create this nuclear exodus in Austria. Now, in the European political situation, it is also about bringing the new technologies forward and not just bringing them into the mouth, Mr Hornek, as you do here and reading them down from the paper that obviously wrote to you by an official in the Ministry of Minister Berlakovich. That's really sad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] - Yeah, then someone else wrote it. But to read a speech, that is not empathy against nuclear energy, for the exit from the EURATOM Treaty. This is what we would expect from government groups, which we would expect from representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, if we look at the request of the government groups, it is also very sad that you do not even want to see a new alternative in Europe beyond the EURATOM Treaty. No, you want to invest less funding purpose and more in the direction of protection purpose under the EURATOM Treaty. Yeah, what does that mean, please? – This means that you still want to pay through public funds the protective measures that the nuclear lobby itself does not want to finance. This cannot be a strategy for the future! Please, that's totally counterproductive. The precautionary principle would mean that the nuclear industry also has to carry the risks, the liability for interference must also be settled there, the nuclear industry has to pay it, colleague Cap, and not the taxpayer. [[It was in favour of Greens and BZÖ, as well as of members of the FPÖ.]] Therefore, our offer would be, and this is really an important offer in the sense of common concern – I very much agree with your concern that you also want to advance renewable energies –: If we want to deal with this together, we have to give a signal in Europe, then we have to This is the first time we've been working Progress is to organise a conference together in Vienna with the other Member States which currently do not have nuclear power – that is, 12 of the 27 Member States – and to discuss how we can handle it in practical terms. Our constitutional judges tell us – and this is a number of things, and that is why we have made a request – that the exit from the EURATOM Treaty is now legal. Here we cannot give you the right, so we will not support your motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e8217	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 835 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 111.) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 836 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 837 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 838 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:11:05]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00073_d7e8293	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed applications were submitted from 1227/A to 1233/A. Questions 6017/J to 6069/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 9. July 2010, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The session will begin at a Question Time. Before I close the meeting, I announce that following this meeting of the Immunities Committee will meet in the local V. The sitting is closed.
