ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4300	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The Official Protocol of 79. Meeting of 5. In October 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Ablinger, Amon, Mag. Josef Auer, Ing. Hofer, Mag. Jarmer, Dr. Strutz and Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, who we congratulate very warmly on their young. [[General condolences.]] I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. [[09:05:56]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4346	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Children do not belong to prison’ First of all, Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek has spoken. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4373	Madam President. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “We are shocked!” – This is the note I received at the entrance door today in the early morning from students of the BORG 3. [[The speaker keeps a leaflet up to date.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber puts a chair next to the speaker's desk.]] The Austrian public is inconceivable – unscrupulously, that in this country it is possible for infants to be picked up by the police immediately before a election and then, as in the case of these twins, to be relocated to a foreign country without their mother. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many people are incompetent and many now use these means that they want to draw attention to this unbearable situation with leaflets, with demos. And I would like to congratulate you on that. I would like to welcome you: the pupils of the BORG 3. I would like to congratulate you on this civil resistance that you are doing here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Too often we have heard this in the Austrian discussion, too often we have heard this terrible sentence from you, Mrs Innenminister: ‘Right must remain right.’ – We have heard this sentence very often. [[Unrest at the FPÖ.]] The students of the BORG 3 answer you with Bert Brecht. You will answer with Bert Brecht: ‘Where injustice becomes right, resistance becomes a duty.’ [[Congratulations and bravado with the greens.]] In the case of these twins, you've been talking about pain when you see the children's eyes on TV. – I would like to ask you: What do you do when these pains become too great? Then turn off the TV? Can you close the paper? Or go to the desk and look into your alien laws once, in your humanitarian residence right and consider how you might avoid such situations, where not You suffer, but the children and the families suffer? That would be a better alternative. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Stop You immediately get these embarrassing family deportations from people who have found their home here, from children who don't know anything else! Then you might be able to fight your pain differently. The most touching and impressive interview for me in this discussion, which has gone across Austria, was probably the one by Hans Jörg Ulreich, the founder of the "Protecting Friends" House in Vienna, who did this for the following motive: He's the father of a son. The son had a best friend in kindergarten, the best friend in folk school, the best friend in secondary school. And this friend was simply pushed off from one day to the other, just removed, just pushed away. The father could not explain to his son why. No one can explain to his children why other children who sit together with them for years in the school bench, play football together with them, play with them together at the playground, talk with them perfectly German, perfectly integrate their lives, why these children need to leave our country at once. You can't explain that to anyone. Today, try to explain to these students what it should be for a right that children have no right in this country to live the life that they have been living for years, for six years, for eight years, for ten years, who do not know any other life at all. Try to explain this once! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or try the other way around! Put yourself in the situation of the mother of these twins! I can only tell you: I do not rule out for anyone that someone of us is also bad, that someone is mentally ill, that he is in the hospital with some disease, perhaps burnout – that may also affect you – in a very difficult situation, he is vulnerable to suicide, as this mother was, and then, in this situation, one takes her children away, takes her both children away. I don't know what I'd do in this situation. I would give no guarantee for myself of what I would do in this situation if I was bad and I was taken away from my two children. As a mother, you should also raise this understanding for another mother, just for another person who loves his children as much as you do, I think, love your child. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] – This has nothing to do with good and bad. [[Abg. Weinzinger: You're messing up something there!]] I mean, there is a great foundation in this society, there is a basis that has now been lost in the eyes of Austria, namely the right, the well-being of the child. They have been refusing to implement the Convention on Children's Rights for months, which would also put the very perspective in the centre of the legal situation of the right of the child. [[Abg. Steibl: You were against it! ...!]] A child does not have the right in Austria, after eight, to stay here after ten years, although it knows nothing else. There is no such right. 16-year-olds can still be separated from their families. They step up the rights of children in this country with feet, and that must be an end! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The list of intensifications in this area over the last ten years is infinitely long. The foreign law, the right to asylum and the right to stay humanitarian would have to be presented here with the disk rest, with all the accompanying manuals – that is no longer even to be carried. And there are no more experts in Austria who rightly claim that he is perceiving this law, this rage of intensifications that have exclusively come out of political emotions and not out of reason. There is no longer anyone who can see this anger and draw reasonable conclusions from it in any way. How can it be that people and families who make only one single asylum application – just one asylum application – still have to wait eight years? No follow-up proposals and other things, as you always say. They make a single asylum application, and after eight years the negative decision to leave the country immediately. I can give you a list of those families who have made only one asylum application and yet wait, wait, wait and have spent half their life here. There's something wrong with the basics. And come on. You don't tell me now that it's a single case or the laws are so great anyway, just the execution is bad. – This is the song the SPÖ is currently singing. That's wrong! The basics are no longer right. We need a total reform here, which aims to bring children back to the centre of our political action and to recognise their rights. And we need to stop these unbearable family deportations. This is no longer tolerable in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are your successes in this field in the last ten years? – The cases are getting worse and worse. There is yesterday’s announcement in the city newspaper “Falter” that a five-month-old infant, whose father is Austrian, was deported to the Czech Republic. The mother comes from Mongolia and cannot be with the family. To separate the mother and the baby from the father – what laws do such madnesss make possible?- Oh, my God! Is that the insanity of everyday life in foreign law, where you simply have to accept: Right must remain right? – You can't accept such a thing anymore. A infant belongs to his family, including father and mother. If it is the child of an Austrian citizen, how can you explain that this baby is not allowed to grow up in Austria? Please explain this to me! You can't explain that to anyone. And this is in perfect contradiction with all the requirements that the Convention on Human Rights makes, especially the Convention on Child Law. We are undertaking a joint effort to actually lift this Convention on Children's Rights to one level, to a constitutionally binding level, so that it eliminates this abuse, this unbearable abuse in Austria! I know about the negotiations. We have observed this very closely. During these child-law negotiations, your place of business and also you as a person have strongly insisted that precisely this area, the human rights, the right to asylum, asylum, is not covered by the fact that there is a right of law, that these rights do not apply to people who do not have the Austrian passport, to children who live here but do not have the Austrian passport. We won't take that anymore, this fairy tale you tell us, we didn't want to implement the children's rights. They want to continue to push children off. You want free hand here and you don't want that to prevent any constitutional requirement. That's the truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This number, the laws are so good anyway, only the execution is bad, doesn't pull anymore. I would like to join many experts from human rights and also from the legal sphere, such as Mr Öhlinger. [[Abg. Dr. Cap is talking to his seat neighbor.]] – Mr Cap, perhaps you could listen briefly, I am speaking right now about your argumentation! – So the number that the laws are good, only the execution is bad, so you don’t get through anymore, so you don’t get through in your own party either. President Prammer said she was angry. - Right. And many, I think, in your party are angry that you have given in to these questions constantly, have given in to each intensification and now dozens of empty chairs of students are in the classes where the children ask themselves: Where is my colleague, where did my colleague go? Change the basics, change the laws! Stop the possibility of fully integrated, perfectly speaking German-speaking young people, into whom the Republic of Austria has invested, in whose schooling it has invested, who want to make a contribution to our society and also want to do it! Make sure they can stay in our country! Make a reform of this humanitarian right of residence and the right of foreigners – as soon as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4526	Mrs Fekter spoke on a preliminary opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e4547	Madam President. High house! Dear Advisors and Watch the TV screens! Yes, it is painful to send people home when their illusion, when the false hopes they have made, are destroyed because our laws clearly state who can stay and who can't. [[Abg. Oillinger: Home?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: At home was here!]] We have a high prosperity in our country. We have a high quality of life. We have a dense social network and we have a great tradition of helping those who have been persecuted. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weinzinger.]] From this situation, Austria is facing an enormously high migration pressure. We are meeting this challenge and we are also carrying out the humanitarian mission. We in Austria have received more refugees per capita than all our neighbours – than Germany, than Spain, than France, than Italy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] We have established clear rules – and they are good. They must be carried out, but above all accept that they are the same as they are. I'm just standing for this respect, even for the execution. There where we can optimize something, I do not want to optimize it, but we cannot suggest, Mrs Glawischnig, that we can take up all those who are worse worldwide than we are. We can't afford that as an Austrian. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We therefore have very clear rules: If you want to work with us, you need an employment permit and you have to take care of employment for a stay. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We're talking about schoolchildren today!]] 460,000 people choose this legal path – and that is a good thing. They also contribute to our quality of life, they will also need us in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's why we push off well integrated!]] Foreign employment is particularly important for those from the former Yugoslavia, our traditional host country, the legal way to come to Austria, and not to say “Asyl”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What about the birth? Is that enough?]] But if someone comes from a crisis area, if he comes from a war zone, if he is persecuted, if he can cite reasons for asylum, then the asylum system is the right one. And our asylum system, as the Bundesasylamt deals with the procedures, how quickly we have become with the asylum court, is an example of the new cases worldwide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The figures speak volumes and are proof of this: Our law is a good law. Pressure's gone down. There are no longer so many cases in the asylum system that actually do not belong there because these people have only economic motives or otherwise used the system. And I'm going to take the advisory infrastructure into account as well. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Glawischnig, it is not a matter of consulting in more and more procedures, although it is clear from the outset that it is hopeless. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I'll give you the list: one asylum... eight years!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Glawischnig, one of these clear rules in asylum, on this humanitarian mission, which I fully recognise, but also European solidarity, is the Dublin procedure, which is one of the Treaties, which all European states have committed themselves to: to wait there for their asylum proceedings, where they have at first said “Asyl”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What are you talking about? We're talking about kids!]] There is no asylum shopping in Europe. One cannot say “Asyl” in Poland, Hungary or the Czech Republic and then insist that it is perhaps more attractive in Austria or, if it does not make the procedures possible in Austria, one may go to Sweden. This has been stopped in Europe. There are clear rules here: For the first time in a European country ‘Asyl’ has said, its procedure must be carried out there, even if it concerns a mother with a baby. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... Inhumanity! That's inhuman as you argue!]] If the mother has sought asylum in the Czech Republic, she must also carry out her proceedings there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is deeply inhuman!]] It's not inhuman, Mrs. Glavischnig, when you tell this lady and her baby that she has to drive to Prague! [[Call the Greens: Of course!]] It is not inhuman, if you say to a mother with her child that she has sought asylum in Hungary, she should go to Budapest. [[Call the Greens: Shame!]] We have to comply with these clear rules, otherwise we will have a say in the matter. And I'm not to have any chance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And that's why, Mrs. Glavischnig, don't suggest to people that there should never be a mother with a child to another country! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, sure!]] No, Mrs. Glavischnig! It's an illusion. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Inhuman as you argue!]] That's where you make people's false hope. If someone in Poland has sought asylum, it will also be in the future that we must send this family to Poland. We must ensure that European Treaties are respected, and we must also call for European solidarity from all countries. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am the one responsible for implementing these laws, even if they are painful. [[Call the Greens:Leader!]] I will ensure that we also comply with these rules, because we have no chaos. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Inhuman laws!]] On the contrary: We have an orderly foreign right, we have rapid asylum procedures and we have European solidarity. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Change!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: From now on!]] Now I come to the old cases, now I come to the long procedural periods for the old cases. With the establishment of the asylum court, we removed the new cases from the administrative court – thank God! All cases that are now occurring in the media have been indebted to the administrative court for a long period of time. And I use this word consciously: indebted! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] It is incomprehensible to me why the Administrative Court for a simple, formal decision – not content! – whether Austria or Hungary is responsible, has four years. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Because he's sickly overburdened!]] The management there at the Verwaltungsgerichtshof belongs covered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Constitutional Court only needs days to do so, and thousands of cases are pending at the Constitutional Court. Both the asylum court and the Constitutional Court have a good case management. The administrative court has no case management at all. And that's got to be covered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] And, Mrs. Glavischnig, I'm totally familiar with the sentence: Right must remain right! And not as a one-way street. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You represent injustice!]] That means: Our good law, which takes very many humanitarian aspects into account, our good law belongs to implemented not only strict but also humane in the sense of the law when it speaks for the families. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A bad law!]] This House – and I thank you for this – has made it possible for the humanitarian stay to be examined in all proceedings, with the votes of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That you bring the word out at all!]] There, the legal provisions are clearly regulated. Because the magistrate Steyr did not deal with this, I fixed this notice, because of course I also want the law to be implemented in accordance with the law when it speaks for the families. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Stop telling this fairy tale!]] When it speaks for the families, it must also be ensured that there is a law-compliant application. And that is why the case will be decided again for the twins in Vienna. Rightly, it must remain right – this is not a one-way road. This applies both per and counter. I'm standing for this clear line, and I won't leave it. I am not entitled to vote in favour of foreign law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5001	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5027	Madam President. High house! Yes, exactly our opinion: Right must remain right. That's right. And that is why we look at the Asylum Act, where it is clear in § 10 that when a violation of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights is given, it is not allowed to be expelled. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's given!]] If you look closely at Article 8, then you see that it is true that the nature and duration of the previous stay, the question of whether the previous stay was unlawful, actual existence of a family life, protection of private life, degree of integration, criminal impunity et cetera must be taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Don't be noticed!]] In these two cases, consideration should have been given to this Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights. That was not done in execution. Therefore, both are not in conformity with the law and are illegal. This must be said clearly once the debate on implementation and the laws is held here. - Point one. Point two: That is now being reversed, that is true. But, Mrs Minister, if you yourself say that there are hundreds of thousands of old cases now, the question is: How do you deal with these old cases? - No, no! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Perfectly stored: all roll up!]] The law does not apply completely to the same stock, but also here. Right must remain right. Here too. Using the following: But if this is not understood by the Security Police Directorates, Mrs. Minister, then only one decree will help! We are now discussing the events. They say it's not necessary. In the case of Steyr, it must have been the case that the Security Police Directorate had already expressed an opinion in May, which then joined Steyr. And therefore... – No, the problem lies... [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No! ... to deal with the case!]] We discussed this at another time in another place. I'll tell you: My last information stand is that there is a wrongful shift here towards the mayor of Steyr and the Magistrate there, because there is already 5th. In May 2010, the Security Police Directorate issued a notice to which they joined. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He didn't even examine it!]] Therefore, we do not allow the mayor and the magistrate to be treated by you in this form. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] You know that there is a multi-point programme of the countries, especially from Vienna; You can read this even today in the “standard” – where reference is again made to the question of a legally binding decree, and where – especially for the old cases – it is clear that it is legally binding. What is already legally binding is then clarified with the decree and is actually in execution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about the duration of the stay, the security of private life and the fact that these families with the children are then covered by this legal explanation, so that it is answered on a case-by-case basis in such a way that there is a humanitarian stay and that families are not torn apart and we give a picture of inhumanity and non-respect of human rights principles in the national and international public. It's not acceptable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Behavioural applause at the SPÖ!]] - No, I don't. Shall I tell you something? That is fundamental rights, and this call is not appropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, I'll tell you something! That's where we can discuss this. We also say that we must make these laws abusive: yes!, but dehuman: no! Taking into account the basic laws and human rights: yes! If that happens on this basis... It's good to have this discussion now, because if someone doesn't mind, he says: Well, the laws are to blame! As if there were no execution. There's an execution! They're officials. There is a political and a place of responsibility here. There must be clarity. And so there is God thanks to this Federal Asyl Office, which we have now decided where this mess of authorities, the Security Police Directorate, will be removed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:...for feces!]] But then this Federal Office needs a decree where clarity exists that we don't stand here every week because a family may be torn apart again. It's not acceptable. We will do everything we can to make this picture a different one on this point. You can make a contribution to this, Mrs Minister! I would also like to say this in your own interest. It cannot be in your interest that you are at the heart of criticism every day. It is the execution that has been changed. That is a very important principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5173	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5195	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and also on the TV screens! The fate of the Komani family, especially the pictures of the twins Daniella and Dorentinya, have all touched and affected us. This fate would not have been necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes, yes!]] To blame for being able to do so, however, is not the legal situation with us in the country, but it is due to the fact that a very humanitarian legal situation has not been applied. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Eyes to Hear...!]] Debt is a lack of sensitivity to some authorities. The 3 400 cases since the last change in asylum law, ladies and gentlemen, the 3,400 cases in which humanitarian residence rights have been applied positively in the meantime are the best proof that this legal situation affects those whom they need. But if you don't use them on the part of individual authorities, even the best law is not able to act humanly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Asylum is a human right that we want and must hold very high. Austria is, of course, also an attractive destination country for asylum seekers because of its prosperity, its living conditions, but also for people who are persecuted for other reasons – not because they are being persecuted at home, but because they are economically bad at home and they are hoping for a better life here, which is humanly understandable – to come to us. This, of course, makes this country very attractive also for people who come from other motives. Let's remember! 40,000 asylum seekers each year, an asylum flow that Austria was no longer able to cope with – just a few years ago. Our support infrastructure was overwhelmed, the six- and seven-year procedures were totally unacceptable. These result from this then openness of our system, including our legal situation – inviting all to come here. That was unacceptable for those concerned, no question at all. Of course, it was urgently necessary to separate once more legally cleaner between asylum and immigration for economic reasons. And, ladies and gentlemen, this situation at the time was also unacceptable to human rights asylum. If a country is overshadowed to such an extent that its infrastructure is overshadowed, even if the will to practice humanity is overshadowed, then urgent changes are needed. We have not implemented these amendments for too long, and they work. The duration of the proceedings is dramatically reduced. Today, even if all legal remedies are used, an asylum seekers can expect to complete the procedure within one year. The misuse of procedures by so many organisations – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it – has been stopped and is already included in this one year. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: The core of this new legal situation is the right to stay humanitarianly for those asylum seekers who have been there for a long time and are well integrated – especially those with children who are well integrated in the country – but who have had to endure these long procedures due to the old legal situation. At the heart of this new legal situation is this humanitarian right which can be granted to such families, such people today. And that would have been the case with the Komani family. They would have been entitled to this humanitarian right, and the authorities did not. The Minister immediately responded: It has established an eight-point programme and has instructed the authorities to act in the future. [[Calls for Greens]] I am sure that this eight-point programme will make it possible to bring about a breakthrough of the right of asylum and the right of human rights – and this, ladies and gentlemen, in the sense of those people who need asylum, but also those people who want to misuse the right of asylum, but above all in the sense of humanity.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5270	Mr Vilimsky is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5291	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a scandal of the special class, which you present to the Greens today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That on the back of two children here you are defending a misused asylum system and all the criminal asylum seekers are thus equal to that – that is the scandal that is going off here today. [[Abg. May. Honey: The kids! The “criminals ” children!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Mrs. Korun, I know you're evoking! I would like you to read to your fellow countrymen the Levites once you come to the speaker's desk afterwards. – They come from Turkey, where Kurdish politicians are now being imprisoned to hundreds, 14-year-old girls are imprisoned. But no, you don't. They're yelling at the Austrians. Shame on you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today it is said that “children do not belong to prison. ” So far, so good. I too believe that no one should have been imprisoned to bring the family back to their home country. But, Mrs Minister – and I am throwing that before you – instead of putting the children in jail, you should finally lock in the hundreds and thousands of black African drug dealers, all of whom are asylumists. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That went well, Minister Fekter. Three days before the election, you tried to suggest to the public a little bit of that law-and-order status for your party. That's what happened. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Not me, Mr. Vilimsky! Not me! This has had a social democratic handwriting! Not me!]] But, Mrs. Minister, afterwards, to clean up the head of the foreign police and to push that into the shoes of the mayor of Steyr, that's cheap. There's ministerial responsibility. Stand by your responsibility! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today we are also talking about asylum, Mrs Federal Minister. Every second asylum seeker is going through your rags. Thanks to the APA, you can't get the numbers from you: By the beginning of July, 2,000 asylum seekers are simply submerged. Now we know that in the second half of the year, the flow of asylum seekers is getting stronger. That is, by the end of the year, from about 10,000 to 12,000 asylum seekers have been plunged into illegality, into crime. Every second goes through your rags. In Traiskirchen it is so that every month 200 asylum seekers are simply gone, and I claim that they have not been picked up by aliens somewhere, but they are somewhere in criminal organizations, and these are those who suffer from the Austrians. There you are, Mrs Federal Minister, finally to do something! Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned Dublin. Theoretically, it should be so that in Austria, there is no longer any asylum seekers at all. Dublin II states that all those who come from safe third countries do not have the right to apply for asylum in Austria. We are surrounded by safe third countries, Mrs Bundesminister, and whether the Komani or Zogaj family is called, both have come from Kosovo, and of course they have come over Hungary. There is no need for six years to realize that they have come over Hungary. Of course, it is more pleasant in Austria than in Hungary because we have a better social system, because there are more possibilities in us. As a result of their policy, Austria has also become an asylum paradise, so it is also the international towing bands that promise people on the ground that flow milk and honey for them in Austria. We therefore have the whole problem through your policy and therefore the current case of Komani to debate. Every year there are 10,000 to 12,000 asylum seekers coming to Austria. Every second goes through the rags, submerges somewhere. Last year, in response to a parliamentary request from me, there were 10,500 criminal acts by asylum seekers. You can't discuss that away, even on the back of little children, because that's a more than bad thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Talk about the party donations for the FPÖ!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, you have been kneeling, kneeling in front of a left-wing asylum lobby, which, in cooperation with the Greens and a little bit of SPÖ, helps people in procedures to help people and the asylum seekers try out procedures for years. They are now cleaning up at the Constitutional Court. - That can't be so. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Today, 65 percent of the cases of the Constitutional Court are asylum cases. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: It's about the administrative court!]] And who has been at the top of the interior for the last ten years? I think that was someone from the ÖVP and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, over the last few years. You can't tell from that that that's your responsibility. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5447	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5468	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, even in front of the TV screens! I would like to welcome once again the students of the borg3. I would like to express my express thanks to them for their commitment to ensure that they do not do nothing to ensure that one of their students is simply torn out of their midst and simply pushed off. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To Mr Vilimsky only briefly: Mr. Vilimsky, we all know that the right of residence and citizenship are handled through full pockets with you and your FPK. There is no humanitarian right of residence or asylum. You just have to have this one here, then you'll be inside Carinthia very quickly. [[The speaker holds a note of money]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Back to our real topic. In April 2009, an Afghan father and his three minor children were taken into custody at the age of four, seven and ten. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: (in the direction of FPÖ) To your initiative!]] The situation was amazingly similar to that of the Komani family. [[Abg. Street: And what are you doing with the Kurds in Turkey?]] The mother was seriously ill in the hospital. This did not prevent the authorities and the senior authority, the Minister of the Interior, from taking this man and these children into custody at the age of four, seven and ten years. The Minister then said, at a request of the Greens – I quote – that: Children under 14 are not taken into custody. – Faced with the specific case of the family and the objection to blame, which was also addressed to the children who were actually put into custody, she then answered the question of how that could be – I quote again literally –: These children are not insubordination, they only accompany their father there. Yes, is it even more cynical?, you have to ask. Is it even more cynical, given that the Minister of the Interior, which the Austrian police supposedly want to make the country's largest human rights organisation, says something like that? It's cynical. Children come in pushy, five - month - old babies are pushed off. The Minister shall either take care of the foreign police, which is bound to her by direction, or she shall be disposed of by a magistrate and shall try to simply remove the political responsibility she has as Head of Division. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 alone, more than 180 minors were in charge. These are not figures of the Greens, they are quite official figures of the Ministry of the Interior – over 180 children and young people, while the Minister deny that among 14-year-olds they are taken into custody at all. What one has to keep from their information and their statements, the case of the Komani family has shown very clearly. We now have the situation that gymnasiasts should be arrested in the middle of their class. A 14-year-old girl is immediately visited by five foreign politicians in school. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Because the director did not want her to be postponed!]] That's right! I would also like to thank the Director and the Teachers and Teachers for not participating in this embarrassing deportation policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One of the most important points in this context was the withdrawn Mr Komani himself. He said there must have been a mistake somewhere. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, a terrible mistake has happened somewhere. If SPÖ and ÖVP believe that they can overtake the FPÖ on the right by making exactly the laws required by the FPÖ, then a terrible mistake has happened at this very point. And this mistake must finally be rehabilitated, this mistake must finally be reversed, so that no more infants, who are children of Austrian citizens, are postponed, so that no longer Gymnasiasts are arrested in front of their entire class community, so that this shame ceases! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Fekter, you are finally relinquishing and opening the way for a human rights policy and an asylum policy that really deserves this name!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5579	Now comes Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5600	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To pre-empt it immediately: Yes, the deportation of good, of best-integrated children and grandchildren with police force is indeed unworthy, last-class and a civilized rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. This has to be clarified once from the house. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is high time – and this is what we demand of you, Mrs. Minister – that you end this childhood hunt, as she has already done in recent weeks, in order to catch the right ones, to hunt the right ones – criminal foreigners, drug dealers, burglars, violent perpetrators, all those elements that in reality have not lost anything in Austria. You should push them off, but not well integrated children who have already set foot here in this country. But you said something right, Mrs. Minister. Laws must be implemented, even executed – in that case in the truest sense of the word. Just, Mrs. Minister, no law says that children with police force are being taken from schools with uniforms. It is also in no law that unspoiled people – like the father of this family; who have not yet been talked about – are to be investigated in an unpleasant way, how serious criminals are treated, how they have to take off. We know all that happened. That's not in any law either. And what does not even exist in a law is a pre-electional legislation and a re-electional legislation – for that is the truth, Mrs. Minister! That's the truth, and that's the mask we're pulling from your face today from the ÖVP. Before the election with your minister, they quickly wanted to show hardness and quickly wanted to raise a few votes before the election, so they would not know anything about it after the election. That is the fact, and that is also the dishonest thing about this whole policy which is being carried out here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Move off before the election – even though the wrong ones, you now fall on your head – and push off and horse-arming, and after the election we'll all get back. Protective coat with a hang on the trade of cleaning, because, Mrs Minister, you do not assume the responsibility of sending you to small officials, too. the head of the Foreign Police somewhere in the Nirwana and say that the Administrative Court is guilty. This is even more classic, if not even political responsibility, Mrs Minister; you should really write this into the main book! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, we believe that foreign offenders, even if they are asylumists – that is generally so – have not lost anything in this country. This should be the focus of a proper foreign policy: Foreign laws that don't pardon offenders, but instead give the well-integrated people the opportunity to stay here, but on the other hand to carry out a hard edge against offenders. There is the foreign-check model that the BZÖ has developed, exactly the right one, exactly the right one, exactly to the point, the answer, namely that we look at each individual – including the asylum seekers, even the old cases, even those in the country – very carefully and look at ourselves: Is it well integrated? How long is he there? Has he been there for more than five years, due to a lack of authority and not due to the delay – I am now with the Greens and their friends – of lawyers, experts and the green lobby and industry, who willfully delay asylum proceedings and thus do not do any good to those concerned? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not just we say that. Read what the editor-in-chief of the press, Fleischhacker, says – I quote literally –: “In the area of fundamental issues, Caritas, Diacony and other NGOs have decided to take sides with the Green Policy. They act as lobbys with the industry’s commercial practices, from polemics to simplification to selective facts.” That's the truth. It is you who are the asylum seekers, and those who have quite a chance to stay here, with this industry of lawyers and experts – yes, I say mafia – are extremely damaging – to you from the Greens, the experts and the relevant NGOs! That's the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, Mrs. Minister, we demand that this deportation tourism, which you are now proclaiming, be postponed before the election, be returned after the election. This is not a consistent application of laws. And one thing is not possible either, because it is also so enthusiastic: this general amnesty. We are against this very massively, because in a growing-up we have a general amnesty and to say that we must all stay there without checking whether they are at all unchallenged, without checking whether they are needed here at all, without checking whether there is any reason for asylum at all, it cannot be. No, there needs to be an orderly procedure with criteria that are worthy of human beings – yes, they are worthy of human beings! – according to which you check exactly every case, whether someone has the opportunity to stay here, or if he does not want to integrate, has become criminal – then he has not lost anything in Austria either!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5691	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5713	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! I would like a little on the legal protection day on the 18th. Return on November 2009, which the Federal Minister opened with the following welcome words – I quote –: As regards asylum and foreign law, rules are particularly sensitive because they concern human fates. Asylum grounds are often not imaginable for us Austrians. We therefore have a high level of responsibility, and political populism in this matter and above all on the back of the people who are concerned is inappropriate and objectionable. - Quote. I can underline that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, asylum and foreign-law issues must be distinguished from one another. Asylum is an international obligation, and both legislation and enforcement are always faced with the need to resolve conflict situations. Also the competent bodies facing these human tragedies – including the police who have to carry out their mission – are family people, they also have children, and they are really very close to them. For me, these are the last ones to be left in this process, Mrs. Minister. The responsibility is already yours. The strong response in the public has shown this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we agree that asylum is a human right, which we must also respect and guarantee, and that we need to shorten the procedures. Since the creation of the asylum court, the yes with 1. In July 2008, the processing time of the cases fell to six months. Nevertheless, as an Austrian in the European consensus, we also have to fulfil this Dublin obligation, which already allows us to make this decision within two weeks in order to ensure legal certainty. The fact that there have been problems can be seen from the fact that we created this humanitarian stay for these so-called old cases at the time, and the sum of what has already been done shows that it also works. Now I would like to come very briefly to the two cases, to the Armenians, to the 58-year-old mother and her 14-year-old daughter, who should have been picked up from school. What happened? In February 2006, they came to Austria via Hungary. In March, the asylum application was rejected because it was a Dublin procedure. The appeal proceedings at the Bundesasylsenat were dismissed, and the appeal was brought before the Administrative Court. And this is an impossibility that you will need four years for a decision for something that is really just a matter of form – and here I am with you too. The two women were well integrated here for four years, one has worked, the other has gone to school. Mrs Bundesminister, that can't be, it must not be, and that should be changed in all cases. We must always be aware, however, that any individual decision taken in this area is a decision concerning human intelligence, and it does not correspond to the fact that we can decide in difficult cases between the legal norm or the humanitarian solution; we must take both into account. In my opinion, Mrs Federal Minister, the case of Komani should not have happened in the form. In my opinion, it is precisely § 10 Art. 2 of the Asylum Act for why they should not have been postponed. And now I'm going to pass on the debt assignment to the mayor, and I think that's really embarrassing, because I've got the evidence that there's been a support that the Komani family can just stay there. That's something that stays with you in the resort, Mrs. Minister. We certainly agree – and you have already made an excuse – that there must be a great sensitivity of the authorities. It includes the Human Rights Advisory Council in advance, which includes doctors and psychologists more involved in such cases. The training of officials responsible should be much better. They are supposed to wear civilian clothing and not weapons visible outside, and they are meant to be a coordination body and an ombudsman. In these many cases, there is a range of sensible and humane but nevertheless rule of law, and we have the obligation to act under the rule of law. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My graduation rate: Yes, I am in favour of children not being in prison – and we will renegotiate with the coalition partner so that children's rights will be included in the Austrian Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5803	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5824	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to begin by saying a few words on Mrs Glavischnig's statement, which obviously does not take the further course of the sitting so seriously, because she is not present. [[Abg. Grill: It's no longer important to her! She's missing most of the time, Mrs. Glavischnig!]] Mrs. Glavisnig has spoken of the fact that we have children's rights with our feet. – I can only answer: For the ÖVP, there is absolutely no doubt that children's rights belong to the Austrian federal constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] You from the opposition – you too from the Greens! – did not vote! [[Call the Greens: We know why!]] We're negotiating. We have been in agreement with our government partner for a year and want to decide, but you do not. Now also NGOs say: Yes, children's rights in the Constitution! – But perhaps these are not the right NGOs, and perhaps you would like to have further measures to slow this down. Yes, we too of the ÖVP believe that children do not belong to prison. Of course, Mrs Fekter is aware of this, and she too has said so and has done so. Also the guiding principle of the new boss of the foreign police, Mrs. Jelinek, is – perhaps have She's following this –: Appreciation and respect for everyone. – This principle should only be underlined and actually applicable to all persons acting. However, it is also worth remembering that the legal bases are in order, as has already been mentioned today. We have clear rules that have proved successful. However, it must be started during execution. – This needs to get better. A professional approach combined with the necessary sensitivity is a must. This has just been shown by the events of the last few days and weeks, and our wife, the Minister of the Interior, knows this too. It is about quick, professional action, and it has put in place the right measures. However, since doubts have arisen that the examination carried out by the magistrate, Mr Steyr, was correct, I would like to say in the direction of Mr Cap and Mr Vilimsky: The decision of the mayor of Steyr was – quite concretely – flawed. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... is valid!]] The mere reference to an opinion of the Security Directorate of Upper Austria is in accordance with § 44b para. 1, last half set, too little. The mayor must be valued himself, which is also enshrined by law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This allows you to remove 80 percent of all building decisions! That's exactly how all building decisions look!]] – You can speak for yourself. Another point I would like to take up: What Federal Minister Maria Fekter has initiated, namely the special infrastructure for family-friendly common accommodation, will soon be created, for example with care for housing. The necessary space resources are provided by the Federal Ministry of the Interior. Some people do it very easily – I think it is too easy – by simply cleaning themselves off at our Minister of the Interior, in good Steirisch, and by pushing everything to her. [[Deputies Mag. Korun and Vilimsky: She cleans herself!]] Unfortunately, it is not possible to exclude the administrative court, which should actually take its own view, because, in my opinion, it is not necessary for formal decisions to be taken for so long. It's probably not going to happen in the future. We believe that we should all bear responsibility and bring respect and appreciation to all people, just as the new foreign police chief has said. Finally, I would like to say: Those who need protection and help will be helped in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Ha, ha, ha!]] Our Federal Minister has acted in a difficult time and in a difficult situation as he has heard.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5951	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e5973	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The title of this current hour is “children do not belong to prison”, and I thought we are now discussing § 74 of the Penal Enforcement Act, which regulates that convicted mothers may keep their children in prison until their third year of life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I thought it might be a matter of youths who are not allowed to go to a youth prison from 14, 15, 16 years of age. I thought you might not be allowed to lock up parents who have become criminal, because they have children at home. – No, this debate obviously does not exist here because these achievements – children in prison – are obviously also considered good. Finally, one can expect nothing else from a party whose federal chairman just recently demanded nothing but children from the second year of life to take away the parents by means of forced kindergarten. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, it is obviously a consideration of individual cases that have gone well or badly in Austria. – I do not know the various administrative acts and therefore cannot say anything about them, because I consider a record knowledge which can only be traced back to media reports to be quite lacking. But if you want to discuss individual cases, in future we will also discuss every single case of the Austrian minimum pensioners who cannot afford heating costs in winter. We will talk about mothers with children whose father has been killed by an accident in front of the ruin of their existence. And, for example, we will also talk about individual cases of fathers who have not seen their children for a long time, because they are prevented from doing so by long visitation procedures. – This is what individual case-by-case consideration looks like, but we are not elected to do so because we create general rules. If you claim these children are picked up from one day to another, torn out of their lives, I wonder: Yes, where did all the letters remain from the foreign authorities that are sent before these forced measures take place? [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Infringement!]] Where is the information of the foreign police – you have to leave now, for that you have a month time, order your affairs if it takes longer, we will help you to visit you – stay? Where did all this stay with these families? In any case, the information was there, because how else did the media know that there is just a deportation, so that the camera team can already make itself available? Maybe the media will get the notice before they get the standard recipients at all? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Have we also had the information before the person concerned!]] What's the stage behind that? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And then ask the Federal Minister how she explains this to the children! – Do you know who to explain this to the children? – The parents have this to explain to the children that they now have to leave Austria! The Federal Minister does not have to go to every single family in which such a procedure runs. Next point: They always say Father and Mother are equal, everyone can do everything alone. – And in this case the mother is in the hospital, but the father is obviously not alone in being able to take care of his children, but the children must be with the mother! Is there also demonstrations and rallys in the future if, due to a job change or similar, a family has to move and the child has to be removed from school? Will there also be demonstrations because this child is being torn out of the circle of friends? – No, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! They are nothing but the protection patterns of uncontrolled, illegal immigration, immigration into our social system; otherwise you have nothing to show. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, we have also observed – and I cannot spare you this criticism, Mrs. Federal Minister – that this “action sharp” went into the pants just before the election, as you say salopp. The population has recognized who in Austria is properly managing integration policy. The blacksmith is sitting in front of me, H.-C. Strache – You will not be taken off by the ÖVP, however. Under the guise of humanity, they are concerned that they can in the end even run post chess and remove unloving reds and replace them with blacks. I can only say, dear Austrians, who have chosen this representative: “Choose a better party. You didn’t take the good.” – That’s what Schiller’s “Wallenstein” says.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6069	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6090	High house! Dear spectators on the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's leave the church in the village! [[Oh-Rufe at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: The Mosque!]] It is not a question of getting individual cases widened, but of the fact that these individual cases represent a terrible and embarrassing symbol for Austria, a symbol that children are separated from their parents and put in prisons and that children are transferred to a country completely foreign to them! That's why it's going – and that's the shame Austria is experiencing right now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Österreich-Verneerer, nothing else!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: But you were well-instructed...! Österreich-Verneiger!]] In this Parliament, countless times have been talked about children's rights and their constitutional anchorage, as well as basic principles that – for the benefit of the children – should be at the top of our state. Every child, every youth has the same value in Austria and has the same rights, regardless of the colour of the skin, regardless of the language, regardless of the status of the parents, regardless of religion, regardless of the origin. The well-being of all children in Austria is a priority, and this must also be included in all decisions, because it is the best for children and young people. Putting the child's well-being first would mean raising children's rights to the constitutional level at last and to the fullest extent. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The question has to be asked here as to why this has not yet happened. And the question must also be asked whether these fundamental principles are of no value to the Federal Government, whether these basic principles of this federal government mean nothing. – These questions have to be asked here because young people are being torn out of their lives because young people are losing their food point here in Austria and are being moved to a country they do not know at all. Your families live here in Austria, their whole environment is here in Austria. These children will be deprived of their future if such rights are not respected. The question of the value of this federal government is an important one. When children and young people go to school here in Austria, live here for a long time, have their food point in Austria and are still being postponed, these children are traumatised. This federal government traumatizes children and young people – but does not protect them! To anchor children's rights to the full extent of the Constitution must be a primary objective. A state has an obligation to protect children and young people. The whole Convention on Children's Rights without When and But is mandatory, and it should be done as soon as possible – the entire Convention on Child Law, without reservation, and not just selected articles. [[Abg. Steibl: That's what I mean when you've heard that!]] Children have lost nothing in prisons! Children have the right to social security, to free education. You have the right to equal opportunities and anti-discrimination. Children and young people also have the right to be heard: also by the Federal Government, by the Minister for the Interior, but also by Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, children and young people have the right to rely on the state in which they live, that security is granted to them – and that they have a future here. A right to stay is never a act of grace. Raising children's rights in the constitutional rank means protecting children and young people – and that must be the goal of this federal government!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6216	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6237	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Kopf, you mentioned earlier that this rapid asylum right, which you have created from ÖVP and SPÖ, would speed up the procedures. – I can only say: You could have had this years ago, because at that time, when the BZÖ was with you from the ÖVP in the government, we mentioned and requested from the BZÖ, but you were always opposed by the ÖVP. If you weren't, we wouldn't have these cases today. Then there would not have been the case of the twins Komani, but then all of this would have been done quickly. [[Abg. Head: Had i, was i, tät i!]] But this is the policy of the ÖVP: a policy of delaying. And afterwards, always try to sell the opposite for yourself. – To this end, we can only say from the BZÖ: We are not available for this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Fekter, you really have a problem because you are making a missing foreign and asylum policy. Well integrated children, well integrated families simply push off, that's the wrong way! However, it must also be said in this context that we have also come into this situation in various areas, because certain NGOs with chain asyl applications are delaying the whole process and often with all possible tricks and means trying to keep people in this situation who are rightfully residing in our country. There, too, one can sometimes start to doubt the rule of law! Ladies and gentlemen, in return: Adult drug dealers, burglars and other offenders will not be postponed! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] I'm surprised to hear statements like: These states don't take these people back! – I can only say: Mrs. Minister, this is your job! You must negotiate with these countries! This is the job of the government, the Foreign Minister. In these countries, for example – most of them are Third World countries – development aid could be discontinued if they are not cooperative. That's what other countries do. That would be the right policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you can also put pressure on us at European level to act together. These are other states that think right away. Therefore: Put a sign in this area, because then make a reasonable policy! Mrs Minister, my tip on this: Go ahead! Now to the case of Komani. This family is just the classic case of a humanitarian right of residence, as you said. Yeah, there you go. You're right, Mrs. Minister, because these kids speak German perfectly. The father has a job, is well integrated, in the job effort is described as exemplary; the mother is in the hospital. So a classic family for the foreign check, as the BZÖ under Josef Bucher has always stimulated. My colleague Peter Westenthaler mentioned this earlier: There should be a clear programme so that such cases can no longer occur at all. Now, Mrs Minister, on the Red and White Red Card, which was presented a few days ago by President Leitl or the trade union president: If I look at this red-and-white red card, I have to say that there are large parts of the BZÖ's foreign check program in it. So you should know what you're talking about. I can only say: If you had gone through this red-white red card before, You don't have a problem now. But what are you doing? – The case of another family: The mother is in the hospital – and the child is postponed, with the help of the Upper Austrian security director Alois Lissl, who was “at random” appointed by then Minister of the Interior Strasser as the Security Director for Upper Austria. And Mr. Strasser is not an unknown person: As has recently been known, Straster has made a 400 000 € expensive trip to Madeira with the VP club in relation to an EU delegation. In luxury hotels, “class hours” are held and holidays are made using tax money! So so much for Ernst Strasser. Mr Lissl, Mrs Fekter – which has already been addressed by Peter Westenthaler – has provided you with a media-active appearance in front of the Vienna election, which you have naturally accepted thankfully. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The mayor of Steyr has led the deportation!]] – It was Mr. Lissl who was involved. With this measure, you have “achieved”, Mrs Fekter, that you have given ammunition to this “asyl industry”, which is a number of NGOs, which is controlled by a certain number of political groups and which lives largely on taxpayers’ money, for their policy, which means: Doors open, everything in! – But this is the wrong way! Ladies and gentlemen, I was in Brussels a while ago, at a conference on police and judicial cooperation, and can tell you: It is precisely this policy, which is being pursued here by the Greens, that has come from a communist side, because they have also said: Doors open, everything in! It was mainly about Greece, and we know how the asylum system works in Greece. – Exactly these communist organizations have represented such a policy. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Unfortunately, I have not finished speaking. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a problem!]] [[Abg. Head: That's enough!]] Finally, a short while to the police officer who was already presented here as a sacrifice: Mrs. Minister, this is the wrong way! If you pursue such a policy, we can only say: Step back, Minister of State Fekter!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6361	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6382	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Right must remain right. I believe that we are very much in agreement here in this House. It must not be possible to open doors through the right of humanitarian residence that asylum seekers come in, who abuse the system that is going to be criminal here and exploit us Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You already know that you can change the right too, don't you?]] But we also know that it can't be that little children are locked in prisons. We all know, however, that we people's representatives have a heart and a feeling and cannot look at it when young children are locked up to push them off. But I also wonder: Where do the fathers have the heart if they do not visit their children in Hungary because they have the first recording procedure there, or do not go there, but prefer to benefit from the advantage here in Austria? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think it is also necessary to ask whether we bear the responsibility or these fathers. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: These are Austrians!]] I am also convinced that many of these children have been deliberately put into the world in order to be able to argue with the right to stay in humanitarian matters. [[Calls to the Greens.]] And that's something we should really question who then bears the responsibility. The humanitarian right to stay is a very good establishment, with which we should also deal well. I am disappointed, however, how this system is handled, how this procedure, especially in the case of these two small children, has been handled, that I am really wondering how to deal with it with it just as bleakly, by removing the children, then bringing them back, saying that they will do a new procedure without knowing whether they can stay or not or be postponed again. It is important, as I believe, to deal with the humanitarian right to stay very clearly, to work very clearly. And one, Mrs. Minister, I would also like to say to you: It's not nice how you're doing it last but not least to the officials who blame the officials and say: Well, the officials and the mayors have lost it, they have done it wrong! I have only one sentence to say here, Mrs Minister: There is no ministerial responsibility, but one can only say: Like the Lord, so's G'scherr!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6444	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:22:52]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6468	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6772	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mr Grosz has requested the Constitutional Committee to submit a report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Reimbursement on motion 461/A by Mrs Bucher, colleagues in relation to a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Court of Auditors Act, a period of time until 15. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. The vote on this motion for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has requested to report to the Constitutional Committee on application 928/A(E) concerning: “6 out of 45” is too little – all children’s rights in the Constitution, a period of time to 15. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6809	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 and 6, 7 and 8 and 10 and 11 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6833	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 126 minutes, FPÖ 113 minutes, Green 99 minutes and BZÖ 95 minutes. For the duration of the TV transmission by the ORF following the current hour from 10.25 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance: 24 minutes, one speaker round with 10 minutes each and three more rounds each with 5 minutes, so a total of 149 minutes. The first round of speakers will be dealt with in the order FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP and BZÖ, the further rounds by size of the group. Before the beginning of the final round, the President-in-Office, after consulting the presidents of the club, shall distribute the remaining remaining time for the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television period. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:26:11]] 1. Point Declaration by the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to § 19 para. 2 GOG on the state of play in the preparation of the budget
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6890	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor to give the statement. The duration of this declaration shall not exceed 24 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e6918	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen also at home on TV screens! I am glad that I have the opportunity here in the House to present an interim report on the state of budgetary negotiations. As we know in general, we have set ourselves the goal that we should be on the 1st. In December of this year, Parliament will be presented with the detailed budget for 2011 so that it can be reached by 1. It is also possible for January to enter into force accordingly. In addition, I have agreed with the Federal Chancellor that we will jointly develop, as far as possible, all the measures that our budget and budget guarantee by 2014 and submit the budget accompanying laws to the National Council during this period. This is a very comprehensive, major task for every finance minister and for every federal government. In order to manage them successfully, we have carried out extensive work in recent months with all the departments. Each Minister and each Minister had to research their spending to the smallest detail and look for ways to save efficiently and effectively. I would like to thank all those who have taken this task seriously and already very well thought out and also presented balanced concepts. Since the beginning of last week, we have been negotiating intensively and almost non-stopping the proposals in the government. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Since the beginning of last week!]] In a first step, we identified the politically sensitive points of the package of measures. In addition, together with my two State Secretarys Andreas Schieder and Reinhold Lopatka, I have analysed and negotiated the various proposals in budgetary talks with each Minister and with each Minister. And on the weekend, together with the Federal Chancellor, in long negotiations, it succeeded to a large extent in disputing some resorts. In these ministries, control agencies are bundled, projects are checked for their sensitivity, administrative and personnel savings are made, fleets are rescaled, IT costs are reduced and, even if painful, subsidies and direct payments are reduced. This makes me confident that we will work together to cope with the difficult task that we will face in the coming days. However, with other ministries – I would like to say this openly here – it has been shown, regardless of party membership, that there is still a need for discussion, for the following reason: Some of the proposed proposals are more likely to be cosmetic or one-time. I cannot accept this and I do not want to accept it as Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have to ensure that every minister and minister takes the jointly agreed objectives seriously and also saves to the necessary extent. We had to send individual ministers back to the start. They will draw up and submit new proposals in these days in order to serve our common goal – also defined here in the National Council – of saving for Austria better than what has been presented so far. Another challenge is the discussions with the federal states that have been conducted and need to be led to the Stability Pact, to the funding of care, to the school administration and to the shattering of the laws and to the administrative reform. I remain here with the opinion: It is necessary to face this challenge! The discussions in the working groups and last Monday in the Federal Chancellor's Office have made clear the positions of the individual negotiators – more but not more! We are still miles away from an agreement for the benefit of the whole of Austria, including the federal states. The discussions must therefore be continued from my point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! You can see that the negotiations are going very hard, but I am optimistic that they will be crowned of success in the next few days. The requirements – that is always the standard – which the National Council has made us in the federal financial framework by establishing the upper limits of expenditure, force everyone here on the government bank to take painful measures. It is therefore also difficult for every minister to find the right mix of measures. Only in this way can we create the room that is necessary. Only in this way can we guarantee that the benefits will continue to arrive in the future with those they need. I've always said, All will contribute according to their performance! This is a matter of solidarity. Let us take an example: the families. There, too, we have a need for action due to the savings requirements. We have had very intense discussions and are absolutely committed to making decisions as socially compatible as possible despite the ban on savings. In the pension area, we still have this task ahead of us. People rightly expect us to ensure that pensions are safe and secure by ensuring that revenue and expenditure remain in a reasonable relationship. The system must be stable. But if we make promises, create more and more privileges in the system for certain groups or allow loopholes in the early board, then at the end of the day the pension system becomes a pyramid game, which lives from the hope that the next generation will pay even more than the previous one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] – That can and should not go on! I think it is the greatest social injustice to continue such a system at the expense of your and our children. I will therefore pay attention to gender equality in this area – by the way, a aspect of justice, which is often far too short. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also attach so much importance to it because I know that we also talk about many pensioners from the soul. They do not want to be smiled as a generation that makes themselves a beautiful life at the expense of their grandchildren. This is unfair, and this treatment has not deserved pensioners either – only because we politicians are not willing to change the structures. The pensioners have made it clear yesterday together, like the boys, that they want a fair system for the future, a system in which there is no unsocial and expensive derogation. An example: The total cost of the hacker scheme is already around € 2 billion per year, but a pension increase for ASVG-pensionists and officials costs about €390 million. Hand at heart: Why do we allow more than two million pensioners to tremble each year because of an unfair derogation? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can agree on both and get both of them on their way. This is a challenge that we have to master in the next few days. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pretty stunned, the SPÖ!]] This is all the more necessary as our new forecasts show that pensions will increase by around 1.9 billion in new dynamics by 2014. We should therefore take these reforms, these need for change without ideology in the common will of the future direction: On the one hand, as well as rehabilitation of a non-sustainable system on the other, we also deal with and resolve the situation together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the public debate, sometimes it is as if any savings effort is in itself unsocial. The opposite is the case: Debt making is unsocial, because debt making means distribution from bottom to top. This is the true background behind what we have to discuss in debt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] People have nothing to say that we pay €8 to 9 billion of interest per year in smoking. Nobody benefits from this – except the international financial investors who lend their money to the Republic and public authorities. What some have not yet understood: Debt making is much more dangerous today than it once was. Since some countries in Europe – and I have experienced it in close proximity to the negotiations in Brussels – have become short-term indebtedness due to high debt, we are all under market surveillance. Even though only the slightest doubt arises about the savings of the Austrian Federal Government, the serious consequences for all of us, for our systems, which we are rightly proud of, which we have implemented and which have brought prosperity. We know today that Austria is not sure about such a situation. A year and a half ago, we faced a similar situation. I recall the crisis in Eastern Europe, where there were massive doubts about Austria's financial stability in the international markets. We have mastered this situation in the Federal Government, in the context of crisis management and here in the House, but only because we have been able to refer to a sound financial policy. We have this credibility, ladies and gentlemen, in the budgetary negotiations, in the perspective of the budget by 2014 in all circumstances. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Once confidence in the country's financial potential is shaken, it can only be won back at a very, very high price. There are studies of the Monetary Fund and the World Bank, according to which a debt of up to 77 to 90 percent of the gross domestic product causes little recognizable damage. If this limit is reached or exceeded, the effects can suddenly be very dramatic and also irreparatable. For your information: Without the planned renovation of the Austrian government budget we are currently working on, the debt of Austria would rise to almost 80 percent by 2013. We are therefore going to be in this critical area, which is already considered by the People's Republic of China as quite threatening. On the basis of the path provided for in the financial framework, we are much better in 2013 when we implement the measures, and we are working on them, which is about 74 percent. The figures show one thing very clearly – and in this we agree beyond world views, party boundaries and national schools of thought: It's inevitable that we reduce the debt. There is no alternative if we do not want to expose Austria to a great risk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you confess to debt reduction, you have to confess to saving. Everything else in the political debate is unreasonable and unfair to taxpayers. All we spend is to finance working people in this country and taxpayers. Hand in the heart, even here in the high house, and no one should take care of it: We politicians tend to define or invent expenditure that we do not have to pay ourselves. That is precisely why some people in politics are so easily dealing with the distribution of gifts of money, because we do not have to pay for them ourselves. And there we all - I don't take anyone out - have to get to the nose, all of us, in all the parties. The grip of the State Bank, ladies and gentlemen, is always a grip on the wallets of the Austrians. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: By the ads! Millions for ads!]] And the debts that are made are debts that we all have to repay together. This is the cycle that we have to start and interrupt once and for all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We've been distributing more money for decades than we take. We live over our conditions, and we operate under our possibilities. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The debt mountain grows, and we push it further in front of us, again and again into the next generation. [[Abg. Strache: Was that the ÖVP?]] A few numbers to do that. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I think that there has been little loss of party political allocation, but there is a need for a solution on our part. Back to the figures: In 1980 we had about €27 billion in debt. Only ten years later, in 1990, it was €76 billion, and in 2000 the debt amounted to €138 billion, and in 2007, the year before the crisis, it was already €161 billion. [[Abg. Bucher: Wasn't the ÖVP in the government?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the balance sheet of black and blue!]] In short: In the last 30 years until the beginning of the crisis, Austria's debt has increased. And that was the development before the global economic crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was the longest in the government?- Oh, my God!]] And as a result of this crisis, debt has grown from €161 billion in 2007 to €190 billion in this year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that a joke – or what?- Oh, my God!]] This is due to necessary measures. And many of them were agreed here in the National Council. For these debts we pay 8.3 billion interest on our own this year – rising trend! And these interest rates rob us of the margin. That's money we're gonna pay for smoking. We have no benefit for the population. That's money that we don't have elsewhere and that we could probably spend better. Also a few comparisons: €9.3 billion in interest rates – this is three times as much as the tax reform discharge. €9.3 billion in interest – this is about a third more than for education, which is five times the issue for internal security, and that is more than twice the issue for science and research. [[Intervocations with BZÖ and Greens.]] We in the government have the task of ending this spiral, which is becoming more and more dramatic, because we are paying more and more interest for increasing debt, so that we have to make an ever higher debt to fight interest rates for it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In fact, without hope!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must therefore rebalance this new budget, this new budget. We must also ask ourselves honestly and then discuss the questions honestly: What do we spend the money for today, what and what do we really need it for? What are the priorities from the point of view of new justice – a justice, as I understand it, where one accepts the socially weak, but where one does not overpower those who carry the system with its achievements, namely the working people in this country? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want a new justice – one that not only thinks of those who need our help undisputed, but also of those who still have to pay for it tomorrow. [[Abg. Booker: Generation Justice!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a second, a further development: Some say that the economy is already running well now, where to save what the budget is renovating. I say the same as all the leading economic experts in this country: Saving is a question of the structures – and not the economy! We have structural problems that we definitely have to solve, no matter if the economy – and I say, hopefully, because we have put the right measures in the government – jump back or not. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Hospital financing!]] And no one – hand at heart! – knows how stable and how sustainable the upturn is. I want us to be able to counter it as forcefully and successfully again in the next crisis when it comes. [[Abg. Bucher: And that's why we have a three-year budget?- Oh, my God!]] We should not then stand there without free space – and we now have this free space in the upswing, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the negotiations so far, we now want to finalise the still open points in the framework of the government clause, which will begin on Friday in Loipersdorf in Styria. [[Oh, by the greens.]] [[Call the BZÖ:cast!]] This schedule is ambitious, but necessary. Our goal is to present to the public, even before the National Feast Day for the Federal Government, the Aus- and revenue pages, the detailed budget 2011 and also the expenditure limits and perspectives for the period up to 2014. In the following weeks, there will be sufficient opportunity for all ministries to carry out public assessment of the measures submitted. I'd like to be here on 1 January. In December in the House, give the budget speech and then start the parliamentary decision-making process. [[Abg. Petzner: All words taught!]] We, the Federal Chancellor and I, asked before the summer in view of economic development – and the new forecasts from the end of September give us the right that it was good for us to wait – that we redefine the timetable for the budget template accordingly. The following priorities apply to me in the next days and weeks: First: Consequences of saving. In other words, all ministers must meet the required expenditure framework. Secondly, I would like to deal with as few new taxes and tax increases as possible. A better economic development, which is now emerging, is not to avoid the saving price, but to reduce the additional tax burden we will need for people and businesses. – This too is a question of new justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can also create spaces for offensive action. Only when we eliminate structural shale and get under control the dynamics of individual spending areas, especially those of the young generation, can we make Austria future fit. It is about competitiveness for our businesses and therefore also about the safety of jobs. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I would like to focus the offensive measures on the following areas: We need comprehensive solutions for a future-oriented training system. I am convinced, especially in view of the debate that is taking place at the universities: We must provide additional resources for Austrian universities, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the Greens.]] However, we are willing to do so if other conditions are discussed, namely: How can we, together with all those involved, work towards new ways and basic reforms in this sector and address more transparency and access arrangements? I see here an overall package: If new access schemes and transparency are discussed accordingly, then the money will be used. We cannot simply continue in this area of historically grown, traditional structures. New money for old hoses can't make sense in education and university. If you want to have a quality leap at the Austrian universities – and I think we all want it, and this is a decisive location advantage – you have to take new paths. The high price for the abolition of tuition fees, ladies and gentlemen, does not pay the universities alone, which the students themselves pay with mass operation, reduced quality of care and longer duration. These are the cornerstones to be corrected! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: What does the SPÖ say about it?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a second big offensive field: I am ready and we are ready when we have saved and defined the revenue to invest in the field of research and development. [[Abg. Oils: But!]] The same applies to research and development: within the framework of what is possible in the open space, to set right incentives for the future. And the third approach is that we should consider investing more in the future in the field of the country's ecological design – here, too, in the context of the free space that we have. Ladies and gentlemen! The next days will be very important for the future of Austria. I would like to be able to say after the end of the negotiations – and this is what I am referring to the pension debate and the debate for the young – that: We can look our parents in the eye – but also our children! – This is an important challenge in the design of the budget and in planning for the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My conviction is – and I am very optimistic about the discussions we have had – that we can reach a consensus in the government when it says: a maximum of savings and reforms, a minimum of new taxes and debt! This should be the premise for the remaining days when it comes to bringing together a budget for 2011 and the perspective for the period up to 2014!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7338	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7360	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, it is really gracious of you that you have found it worth making yourself here today and giving an interim report if you were already not prepared, even though you were actually obliged to present the budget to the National Council this week within the meaning of the Austrian Constitution. And it is really gracious of you that without the opposition having to apply for a special meeting and to make a urgent request to you, you have been willing to talk about the budget. But with this minimal progress, because we can experience today, we still have to hold on to one thing: They have basically and deliberately broken the Austrian constitution. Then: What you have listed here in recent weeks and months is not constitutional. The fact is: You're living here without the breach of the constitution. For low reasons, the entire federal government, outside of the Austrian Constitutional Arch, stands out to quote the former President of the National Council Khol. You can't say that otherwise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, you should be ashamed of this: you, Mr. Finanzminister, together with your compagnon, Mr. German Chancellor Werner Faymann, are kicking the constitution here with feet and breaking the wings of the Bundesadler. Then: That's what you're doing here – and for this your behavior should actually be ashamed of the ground and the ground! But unfortunately this red and black federal government has lost all political shame and has already thrown its principles overboard a long time ago. That is why we are going to make two requests today, namely, on Prime Minister's claim against Mr. Werner Faymann and against you, Mr. Finanzminister Josef Pröll, because you have acted guiltyly and unlawfully, by They have failed to do so. National Council to submit the draft federal financial law for the following financial year at the latest ten weeks before the beginning of this financial year, as provided for in the Federal Constitutional Act. Federal Chancellor Faymann and Minister of Finance Pröll, you are almost the political version of Max & Moritz: You're just thinking about how you can play bad tricks for the taxpayer. That is the way you need to define how you rip and devour the “financial chicken”. But what's so beautiful about Wilhelm Busch? I quote: “But woe, woe, woe! When I look at the end!” And I can only predict one thing: You will get the invoice presented by the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you've been responsible for in recent years and what you've done is really a shame. Many of the Austrians are actually unscathed about your representation in the government. Red and black have been allowed to experience a foretaste on this end during the last country elections in Styria and Vienna. And these elections have also shown one thing: that you Your breach of the constitution, which you live here, for low reasons, has not benefited. He was looked through by the voters, they have looked through the shabby game of red and black and rightly missed you on these two days of election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the question is: Does that bring you to reason or not as a red-black promoter? That is the crucial question! Not yet! Obviously, you have lost much too little, and They seem to need more democratic electorate figs in elections, because they do not learn anything about it. We experience this once again in the Styria, where the losers of election move on to the agenda and immediately recoup themselves and form a coalition of the losers. The same applies to Vienna, where further packaging is to be carried out as before and where a coalition of losers is to be formed. There, too, you simply go to the agenda. And the voters are right to ask: Are they not able to live up to democratic understanding? Are they not able to take note of the electoral mandate and, as losers of elections, to think about themselves and about the wrong developments that they have to answer? No, obviously not to date! You, ladies and gentlemen, from social democracy continue to be excluded. Mr Häupl in Vienna does nothing but look for the coalition partner who is the cheapest and continues a loser coalition. But in this they have apparently been trained, because above we see the 2008 loser coalition. And this seems to continue consistently in all the federal states. But that will not be sustainable. At the federal level, the coalition of losers and constitutional breakers remains – but also a coalition of tax raisers and those rulings of red and black, which seem to be planning massive tax charges. I wonder, Why Give You don't finally give people pure wine? Now, after the two country elections, you could finally do it, now you could finally make yourself up here, be honest and tell people openly your plans, which have been very open in the last few weeks or have seen the light of the public. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, admit that you are planning or planning an attack on holiday and Christmas money! Give it to to make you the 13th. To liquidate family aid! Admit that you want to shut up the VAT and that you want to install a property tax that is actually intended to hit the middle class! The fact that you want to join the pensioners is that you have at least indicated today that you want to punish the pensioners that you want to freeze the pensions. Admit that you want to punish the care providers that you want to make these cuts! All these are already open secrets. Don't be so pleased, Minister of Finance. The country elections are over, and I think it's time you stopped dizzying the Austrians. But I also think you should distance yourself from these plans. You should finally think about it. You yourself have said here today in your speech, Minister of Finance: Whoever makes debt is unsocial! – According to your own words, which you have said today, you are an unsocial finance minister – according to your own definition! Yes, you are a non-social finance minister – according to self-definition, that is your self-name! – because you have raised our country since 2007 from €161 billion in public debt to €196 billion. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You have to account for €30 billion in additional debt. You have to answer for an increase in government debt of almost 20 percent, Mr. Finanzminister. Yes, that's unsocial! But I can calm you down, Minister of Finance: Not you alone are unsocial, the entire government team at the top of the government bank is unsocial in view of what we Austrians have experienced and have to suffer from debt development in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Despite everything, you're not ready to think about it. You could start right now and put a signal up there on the government bank. A State Secretariat or even two State Secretariats could be saved. In the case of State Secretary Marek, who will say goodbye from here, the State Secretariat could be saved immediately, and also that of Mr Ostermayer State Secretary, and one could put together resorts. Save You're one of these two state secretaries! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would once be a start, since above, at the top of the head – even where it smells – it would save and not just want to burden the people in Austria, as you plan. Finally, don't give the banks billions in the throat, as you have done up to date, where we have experienced that Conrad & Co billions have also been thrown into the throat very loose by the Federal Government. At the same time, however, you want to drive up the tax burden on citizens. We have potential savings in Austria, and I say to you: The expenditure must be saved, the administrative equipment must be saved, the subsidies must be saved! That's exactly where it's going! In the medium term, €11 billion of savings are in there. There's to be saved! At the same time, in Austria we need a tax reduction measure for small and medium-sized enterprises. This would be the right way to a better future for economic policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be responsible, as has been said, at last to save in these areas in the administrative system in order to be able to repay debt. Mr Finanzminister, you will not succeed in your policy. If you really believe that with further tax burdens, with additional burdens on the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs, with further burdens on the medium-sized countries, we will end up in a disaster that you have described today, because then we will have to see a trend towards 80 percent of GDP in debt. That is why I say to you: Prolongation You're not the standstill you're responsible for! They're moaning each other and they're paralysing our country. Especially in times of crisis such as today, Austria needed a federal government, which shows courage and is ready to take up a state and administrative reform. But You'd rather play Mikado according to the motto: Those who move first in the Federal Government have lost. That's your principle! Unfortunately, there is only one way out of this Lethargy – and these are new elections! We are therefore going to make a new request today, because it is really necessary to strike a liberation in this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would also be necessary for the red and black federal government. She's suffering, you can see! She's actually suffering, and she finally needs a blow of liberation. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the end of the sentence and say: It's apparently what tormenting fear you're driving, that you have to live with fear every day, because you're really not bringing anything on and perpetuating this downtime in our country. Free us from this red-black standstill!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7567	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7591	Madam President. I would like to say something very briefly about business treatment. I would be interested to see if the National Council is properly composed today. I was just looking at colleagues Grosz – not with orange, but with blue tie – who had announced that he would milk ants rather than stay in politics when he was wearing a drop in the Styria market. My question: Have you received a withdrawal request or is it still on the post office?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7639	Mr Rosenkranz, this has really been an absolute overstepping of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7664	Madam President. High house! Even if I try to take the words of Klubobmann Stache seriously – and this already includes quite a bit of energy – I have to say, let's do this in peace. [[Abg. Strache: Take a look at the challenge!]] You say on the one hand: Reduce expenditure, reduce subsidies, reduce taxes. Then you say: But debts – which then result – are unsocial. How's all this going? [[Abg. Strache: No debt arises from expenditure cuts, they protect against debt!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Anyone who is watching today and now, when the transfer is over, goes shopping and buys a little bit of vegetables and meat and has to expect always, can only shake the head more. What you have said here today is that light years are away from any political feasibility. This is your system: More is less, and what comes out under the rule at the end of the day is completely indifferent to me. The main thing is, I'm going to bring everyone some kind of message. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] I need to tell you to disqualify yourself. Your voters say the same thing. They have admitted voters – this has now been admitted in Styria and in Vienna – who have always said: But he's not supposed to be mayor! He's not supposed to be chancellors! [[Abg. That's where you're so wrong!]] He's supposed to make a little bit of a noise, but we don't want more, because we know very well that otherwise everything will collapse. Today you have really provided the best proof that this doesn't make sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You don't learn to do this!]] My proposal would be: We all sit together and count on what you say. I think you yourself are going to remove yourself from your own statements with horrors. Now I would like to say something about the report by the Minister for Finance on the part of our group. It was right and wise to wait for the appropriate economic forecasts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Economic forecasts are better than expected in spring and summer. Growth is expected to reach 2% next year. It was also right to wait because it turned out that the deficit would not be 4.5, but probably 4.1 percent. This still means reducing the increase in debt, of course, but it is another economic overall situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Karin Hakl]] And it would be irresponsible if we did not take into account the question of how to shape the future budget. Once again, I would like to point out that the factor of justice, social justice, both in expenditure and in revenue, is very crucial. It is also an economic factor, because if pensioners, employees have money in their pockets when entrepreneurs have money at their disposal, this will have a positive impact on the economy. Therefore, every economic researcher – no matter at any time – says no to cut-off. It is of course responsible to deal with budgetary and tax money. That's an hour's commandment. No one here in this house is – as far as I know – for making debt without end and for throwing money out of it without purpose. [[Abg. Bucher: Do it! 200 billion € Debt without ASFINAG and ÖBB!]] I don't know who you're talking to all the time when you're talking to. I'm saying no one. Maybe you as an individual. That is why I say that we should, of course, take into account the economic situation, but at the same time, the category of justice is a very essential point. The 4.1 percent deficit is also the result of an active state, an active budget to counter this in order to ensure with taxpayers that the State continues to secure employment with the State's resources, so that people continue to have money in their pockets, so that growth and employment are boosted, and, as it is so well called, in the European comparison, both in terms of employment and growth, we are favorite students and senior students. [[Abg. Bucher: Debt them!]] [[Abg. Bucher: The highest tax country in Europe! 45 percent...!]] This is very positive and shows that this federal government has really put in place the right measures at the right time. The one measure was also correct, with which we all five parties here with the bank package have ensured that there is no development that would have resulted in a disaster at the end of the day, if there had not been this confidence signal on the part of the National Council in order to secure the banks here. You were all there, you voted in the same way as all the other parties did. However, it is justified to ask the question of who is guilty of the crisis: Speculators, some investment bankers who have created and sold financial products here, have easily dealt with credit money? That is justified! But you can't just say: We are opposed to tax increases and people should not be burdened! – No one is in favour of mass taxes coming here now and that people are somehow being taxed, but there are some who have a very low share of tax revenue, Mr Klubobmann Strache, and today you have not referred to it again. I wonder why you are still saying that you are the representative of the little ones, the disadvantaged, the anxious, the fearful, if you do not at least take a clear position on the other side here. [[Abg. You're protecting the banks!]] What's happening now? Yes to an asset-related tax, for example. Why don't you hear that from you? [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Or: Why don't you say anything about the bank solidarity levy, the financial transaction tax or the extension of the deadline to take action against speculation? Reform of the tax system – there are the billions, and they have so far made too little contribution to the tax revenue. I say again: It's not about saying, There should be an increase in taxes, there should be additional taxes, no, because it is always to be said exactly who is meant to do so. And those who used some gap in the past are meant to have speculated, perhaps even co-responsible for this crisis. They're supposed to be asked to cash out. If we're already holding our heads for the banks, it's just when there's a solidarity contribution. This is justice, and that is therefore an important point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wonder every time that this is always so washed up and that such horrors are always drawn by many, not just by you, Mr Klubobmann Strache. Today you have also drawn horror pictures again, and then you have noticed that you are already afraid of your own pictures that you draw. It is important that there is this factor of justice, and spectators will certainly support this demand insofar as they believe that social justice is of utmost importance at all levels. [[Abg. Raadler: Realtor!]] Here, too, pensions have been mentioned. To this end: We should look at each other in peace, as is the case with the ASVG-pensionists who have very low references. The average pension is 956 €. You have to imagine this: 956 €! For the men it is €1 256 and for the women on average €756. Only a few get the ASVG maximum board. That is why, I believe, it is fair to say here that this justice applies above all to those who have done the construction work in our country, who have low pensions. It must be taken into account in social terms! These persons are also an economic factor in the sense that they also spend the money they get because they have to live on it. That is why, I believe, it is very important to take this into account when it comes to the value of pensions. This generation contract, which exists here and which also includes a social component, is a very essential aspect. That is why we can only say: We are there sensitive and support the pensioners in their legitimate request that they are not those who have to pay for the crisis for which others are responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think – we are well on the road during the negotiations and during the discussions on the development of the budget – it was very responsible for waiting. It was very responsible, since we can now take into account everything there is in terms of economic change, and it is responsible to take into account in a budget both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side that social justice is a very essential aspect. It is important for confidence in the population. This principle of trust also applies to the hackler regulation which we have decided here by 2013. There has been a majority in favour here. However, the principle of trust also means wanting to stick to it. The principle of trust is also when we say that there are no barriers to universities. In here we have decided to abolish the tuition fees. If I let my eyes wander like this, I see mentally the majority in front of me who decided to do so at the time. It was right to put that signal. [[Abg. Jury:... strike on the street!]] Therefore, I think that the movement that is now taking place at universities is, of course, also a general one. The question is: What is worth us in the future field of education? – There has to be more for it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] Education, of course, concerns not only universities but also schools. The fact that there is competitiveness and competitiveness that one can also exist on labour markets at the same time in the future, these are our challenges. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That's one of the points. This will certainly have to be taken into account in the preparation of the budget, which we will still have to discuss in detail here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7931	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e7953	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You get into thinking when you listen: Why has such an appearance been purchased as a breach of constitution, suffrage and tax lie? For the price you pay for it, we would have expected more today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's right! A better show!]] But perhaps we are still coming to a green branch, because perhaps you wanted to say that every crisis is also a chance. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: On a green!]] [[Abg. - With your missed chance?- Oh, my God!]] If you look and listen to you like this – we have the opportunity to become the government bank transparent – you have to say – don't be angry with me – like a government that sees the crisis as an opportunity, you don't look. I'm sorry. The arguments are also true. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] It might really be no reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] As before, the world has not gone down, Austria is still one of the richest countries in the world, and we can still do something – I am already very bright and I am looking for the positive, you will notice it at once – in order to properly organize the restoration of the crisis, for which you really can't do too much. We should organise the ways out of this crisis especially innovatively, but in this respect I am a little more skeptical – we will come later. But the whole thing, as has been said, has opportunities, especially in the context of the European context. You could learn something from it and make something out of it. How could that go? – We need, of course, next to the insight you obviously wanted to communicate with this – please be You don't hurt me – pseudophilosophical budget-prosaic approach that we don't do well too many debts because we pay too much interest, nor the realization that if the deficits are too high, further debts accumulate; probably you wanted to say that too. And then, in fact, only the simple realization remains that you have to look at the revenue and expenditure side in the budget. But you didn't get much to do with that. The expenditure will be spent on getting there, saving where there are real privileges, transfers or inefficiencies. Keep going, but then you should call it pretty slow. For me, it is dazzling that in the area where most could go, in the administrative and state reform and, I say so, federalism reform, it is obvious that the least is going on. As we can see from the media, on Monday there was again the extended capitulation declaration of the Federal Government before the national leaders. That's where the tragedies lie! Let us talk about other states in this country! This may be possible because, as a rule, the Members of this House or the national governments come from the ranks of your parties. It will be possible that there will be a little further. I'll just give you a few examples. If you talk about pensions and so on and find out where else you need to do something, then we should also talk about, of course, having to go ahead with a good example when big cuts are in place. It is really difficult to find that, beyond television, the people are being addressed, that you want to make up any privilege riders and sit here 10 to 20 black and red politicians who are still in the old political board system. This is a privilege of the special class! We will have to do something everywhere! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I tell you to save with heart and brain as well as investment. When it comes to saving, it will simply be a matter of organizing health care in such a way that the same services can be generated with less resources – that is, of course, a service matter – or that at least a cost-damaging effect can be generated by better measures, because there costs tend to rise. But this will only work if you clean up the worst stupidities there. And we'll need the federal states to do that. You know exactly what it's all about. There are millions and billions, and that is why the previous speaker has to agree. The Court of Auditors' proposals offer a great deal of approach here. It is indeed true that you can save something in this country without immediately having to access transfer services that will receive those who are already among the poorest – otherwise they would not get them. That maybe one or the other is not always in Your world view fits or there or there a privilege is suspected of the poor, that may be, but you should take care of the tax privileges of the super-richs, because we will also come to them. I say to you, a budget recovery that further protects the poor, is possible if one saves where money is actually thrown out, and if one finally – with that I come to the revenue side – also collects taxes where this is still possible, without burdening the economy and thus employment, and wherever it is fair and fair. - That must be the approach. But you didn't lose a word about it. I don't know why we made up 24 minutes of speech in the President. If we had known that, we would have set the clock to 2.4 minutes, because this one note you read so often was, I think, a typical two-minute seat. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If that were meant to be, then we could still find together: just, innovative and understanding the whole as an opportunity. It's never too late, but soon it's too late! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] I come back to this point once again that all the constitutional judges, or almost all, the President of the Federal Government and the President of the National Council, have assumed this and have also guided you to do so in a way that breaks the Constitution. In fact, you should submit to the National Council no later than the morning a corresponding law, a financial law, a budget. - That's not the case. And for this event that you're giving the best in here today, you really deserve our continued distrust. Since I am not very confident that more is coming from the government bank now, I am allowed to make the following request at this point, so sorry, because it was really more inside in this situation: [[Quoted print version removed]] Unfortunately, but at the moment there is obviously no better state to make with you. That's the finding. [[Call for the call.]] - Watch out! I have the suspicion that you may also have been poorly advised, but something has come to your mind in the last one and a half years, because otherwise, after this economic crisis, you would not have shown yourself so inconspicuously in public and first for a year in action with the SPÖ – that was the best – I have to mention it again and again – that we do not need new taxes. Just like that. [[Abg. Strache: I think the chief advised him!]] The crisis is terrible, it's all over us, there's a lot of money. Then, when “Greece” broke out, now it is all the time your text, now we have a budget and tax crisis at once. It was quite clear that if the debt is to be paid off, we have to take care of where we need to save and where the revenue can come from. [[Abg. Bookbooker: At tax payer's cost!]] They wanted to make people believe it all the time; that's why you deserve distrust. The point is that there are a few areas that make you starve, for example, the universities. [[Abg. Rädler: You can only raunch!]] Mr Grünewald will continue to do this. How are the states there? – The best people are leaving, good researchers of younger ages are living in the precariat. That's it. Besides the fact that the buildings are so deranged that people can't be let in anymore. And that's where you want to say it's all palette?- Oh, my God! – It can't be! Your Federal Financial Framework Act, in which you have voted, provides that the universities under the rule will still save € 40 million! Do you think the rectors are an organization of privilege knights who just want anything else to do? They know exactly – and they say it right! – for which they need the money you keep from them. They don't even give them an appointment. Every bank director, every car dealer, every car company director has an appointment with you overnight, and the billions after. But the rectors don't get an appointment and not the additional millions at all. – This is exactly the description of what is going on here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, the whole thing will end there, too, that you will have to say once how we organize the revenue side. That's what Mr Cap is right about: It doesn't make any sense to pretend to be the same all the time. It is very much about the tax structure. Then you can talk about justice. Otherwise, I would recommend leaving this term away, because in Austria it is so that, compared to all, including capitalist countries, precisely in those areas where high assets are concentrated and the corresponding profits are also taken, there is very little to no taxes at all. That's an unsustainable state. If we are talking about the fact that we also need to do something about revenue, you will also have to follow your justice words here instead of always protecting your own clients.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8136	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8212	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8233	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! Ladies and gentlemen on TV screens! First of all, Mr Kogler: If, from our point of view, the Minister of Finance is right, and I support it again and again, in order not to have any new taxes, it is still not a break when, at the end of the day, he will have to comply partially with the coalition's wish for some sort of tax measure. Mr Kogler, a few of the Kalauers have not yet made a serious speech. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has achieved an impressive level of prosperity in an unprecedented way over the last 65 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] If we want to maintain this level of prosperity for our children, for our grandchildren, we must now act seriously – in these days, in these weeks. It's time to act now. And with the 2011 budget and the following, the course for the future will be set. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Where is it? Where are the actions?]] And with the emphasis we have to put there, we finally influence how many jobs there will be in Austria, how the qualifications and thus the career opportunities of young people in Austria will look forward to what social security in this country will be. That is, we also decide how the level of prosperity and the quality of life in this country will shape. But we must not do one thing: To purchase jobs, training, debt social benefits at the expense of the next generation. [[Abg. Themessl: Ah? What did you... do?]] One more thing: Debts are spent future. Debt therefore endangers the financial viability and stability of the social state. This too must be seen once in a while. It's not a bagatelle to make debts for the consumption of our generation. If we put it into investments that will also benefit next, next generations, it should be. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, for example, the Unis!]] [[Abg. Strache: Why does the Minister of Finance make further debts?]] That's what many private people do as well: If they build a house or buy an apartment, they do the same. But for daily consumption to make debt at the expense of the children, this goes maximum in a crisis situation for a short time. [[Abg. Strache: Why then does Minister of Finance continue Pröll?]] And then we have the damn duty, which is due again in our generation, as far as possible in a cycle of economics, so that we do not leave it to our children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Why does this debt policy of the Finance Ministers continue? What is the reason why this continues the Minister of Finance?]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's not make a mistake: Let us not be blinded by the God, thanks to better-showing economic data, when we still submitted it to the Federal Financial Framework Act! The deficits we have are largely structural. In other words, we have several spending positions in our budget, which, due to demographic trends and so on, have a dynamic which, if we do not do anything, will lead exactly to the fact that we inevitably enter further deficits, inevitably into further debt and thus into a burden on our children. And, Mr Cap, a word about this unpleasant expression “caputt savings”: I hope we all agree that saving is a virtue and not a disease. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You do not save to hurt someone or break something, but to get something. That's our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Look at the unis!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “To get them, they are broken!”]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore going to be very specific in the bureaucracy. With this budget and the accompanying laws, we will present a package for legislative simplifications, deregulations that will help save in the administration. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There are ringing... all alarm bells!]] We will have to start with the privileges – regardless of whether this is the case with the Bundesbahnen, with the National Bank, but also with some countries, such as Vienna, which are not yet ready to eliminate pension privileges that others have long since ceased to have. Unfortunately, we also have to cut back on funding there or there, whether this is in the economy, but also on the Bundesbahnen. It is not a question of closing your eyes there before necessary efficiency increases and thus causing the federal government and finally the taxpayers and the people outside that would not be necessary, because there the quality of the service is in no relation to the costs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There will be a package of administrative simplifications with administrative combinations, of course also staff savings in the public sector and, unfortunately, there or there also in social services, but in the sense that we want to try to make the social system more efficient, more effective and not to reduce it with the lawn mower. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few special areas in need of reform: those where there is a special dynamic in expenditure development. The topic of pensions. – The Minister for Finance has made it clear: We cannot continue to say that, on average, in Austria people are retired at less than 59 years of age. This cannot be financed for our next generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot continue to say that we are world champions in the number of hospital beds and in the number of days we spend in the hospital, and this in an objectively better state of health of our population than that of people in most other countries. [[Abg. Bucher: Why do you build so many hospitals?]] [[Call at SPÖ:In Lower Austria...!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Two!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On education: Ladies and gentlemen, we in Austria spend almost every student in Austria most of all European countries. Unfortunately, under the rule – see PISA tests – too little comes out. But this is obviously not a question of more money, but a question of the efficiency of the system that we have there. But what we certainly won't do – in order to say that clearly – is: We will not renew our education system either! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing still at the universities: To believe that you can allow everyone and everyone access to the universities – I don't say, studying – and that at a zero rate, with this fairy tale you have to clean up once! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we must and should not only save, of course we must also take offensive measures and invest in the future. Ecologisation has already been mentioned, research and development are to be strengthened, because these are the factors that will make us competitive in the future and, as far as ecologisation is concerned, will also be worth living. And a third, to the taxes: With 43 percent tax and tax rate, we are a top tax country! And we don't want to. [[Call at BZÖ: By this we will measure you!]] [[Abg. That's what you decided! You made us the highest tax country! That's what you did, the highest tax country!]] Then: These are loads, especially for the medium-sized person who has to bear them. These are loads for the middle class, which are anti-performance and thus, at the end of the day, damage the location again. And that's what we should clean up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last, ladies and gentlemen: There are indeed a few loopholes in the tax system, there are gaps, and there are some that do not contribute to the community. That too is to be corrected. That's exactly what I'm calling myself to do. At the end of the day, however, all those subject to taxation – whether the company, the employees, the pensioners, or anyone else – are: It must be reliable and predictable what we do politically. Farms must also be able to rely that what they promised them yesterday is still valid tomorrow, because on this basis they have come to us, on this basis they have opened businesses, created work and contributed to the prosperity of this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last sentence, Madam President. [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of President Neugebauer) A pretty “president”!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Gender-based!]] Mr President, I am sorry! – One last sentence: Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that the Federal Government will succeed in putting into figures what I have outlined now, what the Minister of Finance has outlined as key points, as principles of budget making, in the next few days in the announced government clause, and thus laying the basis for sustainable development of public finances.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8564	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8596	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kopf, what you and the Minister of Finance have outlined here today – since you have finished your speech with these words – was a flossy Blabla speech, which reminded me of a very well-known hit: “There is a train to nowhere” – with a number of blind passengers on board who do not know where the journey is going and which destination they are heading for. [[OBJECTIVES]] If you want to make a statement in a spa in Loipersdorf, I'll tell you: You don't need thermal renovation, but You already need psychological support. [[Abg. Head: What does that mean?]] If I see that the SPÖ is no longer even willing to praise only once in a principle presentation of the budget speech, then that means, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, you have a massive problem! The massive problem is: No agreement on the Austrian course. Nobody knows where to go. They are unorientated and therefore unable to govern this country. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: That's not true at all!]] And now you're shoving into a spa! What will there be? A “Saunabudget ”? A “saunabudget” that will produce a lot of hot air – and in the end the taxpayers will come to sweat, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Strache: A casting-up for taxpayers probably! This will be the casting-up for taxpayers!]] That is the fact that you will decide on taxes and tax increases! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the ÖVP is constantly coming out here, you, Minister of Finance, and your clubman, and again and again, we must not make debts and we must save, then you, Mr. Finanzminister, are soon the country's whitehead, because it is a joke what you are giving, because you know exactly that your uncle in Lower Austria is that head of state who is responsible for the highest debt, you are the Minister of Finance, who has made the highest debt ever to be reported by Austria, you are the Minister of Finance, who is also responsible for a very, very high debt ratio in Austria, and you ultimately stand for it or the name "Pröll" stands for it, ladies and gentlemen: “Pröll” stands for money destruction, “Pröll” stands for debt in Austria! – This is reality, and that is the fact. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mr. Finanzminister, have spent two years in your office to find that we will pay €8 billion and €10 billion in interest in the coming years. That's what you've needed for two years now. For two years you have not been able to think about, discuss, or carry out reforms. Two years of downtime! They come from the standstill to the paralysis, from the paralysis to the standstill, from the standstill to the chaos! Let's look at the universities, let's look at the educational institutions, let's look at the health sector: Construction sites everywhere, nowhere goes a little further. But we are tolerant of a breach of the constitution here today, ladies and gentlemen. We have to do with a government that breaks the laws and keeps people a fool. That's the reality we're facing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Hardly are the two country elections over, on the 11th. October, you suddenly sit down and start thinking about how to renovate this budget. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Long before!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Long before!]] Since spring, your side, Mr. Finanzminister, has always been heard: We do not trust in any forecasts because we do not know how the economic situation will develop over the next few months, how unemployment will develop, how inflation will develop. We've heard from you several times lately. But if the elections in Vienna are over and beaten, then go out and say: So, and now we are making a three-year budget, as if you knew how it will continue in the next three years, ladies and gentlemen. That's popular oblivion, that's a lie about lies that you're spreading here, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This proves once again: They're just about the welfare of your party. You haven't been talking about the people in our country for a long time, and it's not about Austria, it's only about the survival of the ÖVP. And you have long received the answer from the voters. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In other countries, for months and years, for two years exactly, thought has been given to how to reorganise the budgets. Reform steps are being taken because it is known that every reform will only provide first cost savings potential in two, three, four years. But in Austria there is no thought about it, not even negotiation. For two years there has been a standstill and paralysis, nowhere goes a little further. Mr. Finance Minister, no matter how the economic situation will develop over the next few years, whether we will have 1 percent growth, whether we will have 0 percent growth or whether we will have 2 percent growth – I wish that – you will not come around for reforms! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] They are not about reforms in the health sector, in the administration, in pensions, in the care sector. You have to go over this hot iron. Finally, you must ensure that you take care of these convenient tax increases, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the right way for Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For example, if you are thinking about raising the mineral tax and scrapping the taxpayers, if you are thinking about increasing the basic tax, meeting the farmers, kicking the housekeepers and homeowners when you think about it, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, to introduce a bank levy, please think about it: You don't meet the bank director, you meet the bank customers! Processing fees will rise, account management fees will rise. With your measure, you will eventually meet the taxpayers again. A completely wrong and wrong path leading to nowhere, like all your actions you have taken. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not only tax increases, but also cuts, ladies and gentlemen, will be planned here and approved in the thermal spa, for example, cuts especially in the social weak, in the families – the 13. Family allowance is deleted – or in the case of care allowance: for the first, second stage, the money is deleted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what can the social weaknesses in our country do for this crisis caused by the banks and the financial magnates? Nothing! The wrong ones are thrown away for this economic crisis, and this is the responsibility of the Federal Government alone. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have proposed a number of measures to finally introduce privatisation steps in the process of integration. Today, however, red and black decide that the taxpayer will provide €500 million to the association. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Big scandal!]] No one sees that the taxpayer has to get into the bag, so that the Red and Black Association can divide the posts and make plenty of profits there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The electricity prices...!]] There are banks, there are insurance companies in our country that go abroad with money to speculate there! Negotiating and talking to these bankers, they should invest the money in Austria. We have enough companies where money is needed where money is to be used to work in order to secure and guarantee jobs and growth, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That would be due a long time ago. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Pinch Once you have the ÖBB with all its privileges, the note bank – and privatize the part at Telekom! There are a number of measures to be taken with regard to the merger of social security institutions with regard to the reduction of the political bodies. Before the elections we hear this from the SPÖ, from the national leaders who take part in the country elections, but the elections are over, they are all silent, there is no discussion about it, although everyone knows that Austria is overbureaucratised and has bodies that can no longer be financed, can no longer be maintained that should be reduced, starting from the Federal Council to the National Council down to the municipalities! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have not yet reached the tax system, which is far too unsocial and complex. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only a matter of taking action against taxes. And there I call on the blacks, who so greatly advertise the economic union: “to control. ” Yes, that proves that you are against taxes! We will take you to the point of each individual measure by which the Austrians will be thrown out in the next few years. That's where you can take poison! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8824	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e8846	Thank you, Mr President. – Austria is a high tax country. Yeah, that's right, but for whom? – Austria is a top tax country for those who go to work for their income, for their money, and not like others for their money. [[Mr Strache and Mr Bucher: High Tax Country!]] We know that there are many in Austria who do not go to work and earn more than those who go to work, and they pay no or hardly any taxes. In this respect, the question arises: Who is Austria a high tax country for? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If I see ads now – funded by the Industrial Association – where it is said: “tax against”, so you have to be careful that taxes in Austria do not rise, I must say: [[Call the BZÖ:Economic Federation!]] There you have to look at who the taxes would rise for! Yes, for the president of the Industrial Union, he would have to pay taxes, because he earned several hundred thousand euros in the privatisation of the hypo and paid exactly 0 € tax for it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! Yes, I do!]] Yes, we believe, Mr President, that you should also pay taxes on your income, not just the workers and employees in that country! Yes, we say, Mr President Worger, you save the money for the ads in which you propose cleaning women and camp workers who have to defend your tax privileges while these workers and cleaning women pay taxes so that this country works. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] What you're doing is bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's just bad. And we want those who make a lot of money today and don't pay taxes to pay just as taxes as workers and employees do. For these, the tax culprits, they pay very high taxes – and others too little. There we are for tax justice, and that is what we stand for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if Klubobmann's head thinks one should not say "save" because saving is a virtue: Let us remember where that word comes from. The word “challenge ” does not come about, for that is exactly what happened. Where has the Black and Blue Federal Government been saved, Mr. Strache? [[Call:This is your trauma]] Where has the first time been saved? – For example, when it comes to integration. The integration teachers, the support teachers, have been immediately deleted. Yes, it's broken! [[Abg. Street: The state teachers have shortened the SPÖ Vienna and the Häupl! The national teachers have shortened the SPÖ and the heads! That was the SPÖ!]] It's been saved by the police by letting thousands of police go to bed and no longer trained. That was saving in security. Yes, you did that when you were in the government, Mr. Strache: Save in safety. And that's why we say: You have to watch exactly where you save and that you don't save in security, not in education, not in the future, because you can also save broken. You can, yes. And that's why we say: One must be careful where one saves that one does not save in the future, as we have already experienced in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, what you said today was already very revealing. They have said that not only the universities pay for the abolition of the tuition fees – they do not pay at all for the abolition of the tuition fees, because they receive every euro they have lost by abolishing the tuition fees, yes. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm sure they pay!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who? - From the taxpayer!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Okay!]] So the universities don't pay for it. [[New notice of the Vice-Cancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] You have said that the students are now paying for the mass business, because because there are no tuition fees, so many students are coming. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] For seven years, you have explained to us that study fees do not prevent anyone from studying. Nobody! Anyone who wants to study could study despite tuition fees. Hardly the study fees have been abolished, show the true face! In reality, this was only a social barrier, so that not everyone who wants to study can study how it is today. If you say that you want to change something at the universities, and everything you really want to change, but is that you make the entrance doors tighter, so that less come in, I can only reply: You won't find a partner in social democracy, because we don't have enough academics yet, but too little. We don't have too many students either, but too little. If you look at each other and compare with other developed countries how many percent of a year are studying, attend a university, you can see that Austria is a follower and not a pioneer in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Exactly!]] We need more money for universities, yes, but not fewer students, but more, not less graduates, but more. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] To conclude: Mr Vice-Chancellor, on Monday evening you said that the Federal Chancellor had understood something wrong, because the budget is not about social justice. I can only tell you one thing: When you talk to the SPÖ about budgets, it's always about social justice. That may not be your concern, but it is always our concern!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9067	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9089	Mr Krainer, yes, how to call into the forest. . I would therefore like to start my speech with a request to you and to colleagues from Social Democracy, with a request, because I know that jobs are at your heart. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Disputes outside! Go to court!]] There are people in our country who, as entrepreneurs, as managers, are responsible for jobs. [[Call the ÖVP:Krainer not!]] And one of these people, who is responsible for 3,000 jobs in Austria, the Director-General of Lenzing AG – we have done everything we can to ensure that Lenzing AG was not sold abroad a few years ago –, Director-General Untersperger, said yesterday – I connect this with a request to you, Mr. Krainer – in an interview with the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” the following sentence: "The plans currently under discussion raise doubts about economic thinking. In particular, the foundation plans promoted by the Socialists are the square of economic stupidity and boundaries of site destruction." My appeal is: Please, let us do everything in the next few days so that we do not provoke such opinions, Mr Krainer, because these are people who are responsible for employment. Director-General Untersperger has responsibility for 6 000 jobs, for 3,000 in Austria alone. Let's not treat these people like you do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm:... Stiftungsfähigkeit!]] How to call into the forest – after such a class-warring speech, Mr. Krainer, I could not begin with my speech differently. On the real issue, ladies and gentlemen. A year and a half ago, when we passed the laws on the fight against crisis – stabilisation of the financial markets, growth impulses – I said here that the challenge of combating the crisis is a huge one, but the politically even easier part of the work is because it is politically easier to agree on how to spend more billions, and that the even more difficult task comes after that, namely how to “capture” the billions. And at exactly this point, we are now standing. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The crane is only responsible for spending!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe – and it cannot be said often enough – that the fight against debt, the renovation of the state budget is necessary for four basic reasons: Firstly, from political-moral responsibility to our children – we have heard it today, debt is spent future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. But why did Mr Pröll make 30 billion additional debts?]] And we can't act differently from all the parents who say: We do everything we can to make our children feel better! The State cannot argue exactly the contrary and say: We'll put all the loads on our kids! So we have a political-moral responsibility to which we are particularly committed by the ÖVP as a family party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, economic policy – we need scope for action for the future. The Minister of Finance has said it today: If we spend 8.3 billion € only for interest, we will lose room for design in other areas. The interest on public debt is one third more than the entire education sector costs. So we need room for action for the future. Thirdly, we saw it in the financial crisis: For heaven's sake, we must not become dependent on the financial markets. And the financial markets are not the evil speculators. Financial markets test the credibility of policy, and if Of course, it will be an object of the financial markets. I am thinking of a statement by former Swedish Social Democratic Prime Minister Göran Persson, who, when he was in Vienna last year, said: When I saw as a Swedish Prime Minister that a few, as he said, dictate smart boys from the Wallstreet, what I have to do in Sweden to get credit... – That was a traumatic experience for him, and since then, Sweden has changed its policy radically. Fourthly, the Minister of Finance has rightly said that, in particular, I address my social democratic colleagues: You constantly overlook or do not want to see state debt being something extremely unsocial and do exactly that redistribution from bottom to top that you are always up against! The small man has to pay with his taxes so that the financial markets can cash 8.3 billion € interest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] [[Abg. Strache: This is what we owe to the non-social finance minister! This Minister of Finance has unsocially caused debt! Upstairs your party colleague, he has the government debt in record height...!]] Yeah, who's cashing that? Not the poor people! [[Abg. Strache: Who makes the debt? Your party colleague Pröll!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Remember, what you're doing here, the constant debt of the state, is extremely unsocial! One last, ladies and gentlemen: As a People's Party, we are committed to social justice – no question at all. But let me also say the following: We also profess to be righteous for performance, which is even a priority for us, because without performance there is no distribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9239	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9271	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! When I came to this Parliament four years ago, I had a considerable regard for those who are responsible here, whether on the side of the government or on the side of the Members. A little bit of this respect has come to my mind at the latest today, when our Minister of Finance and Vice-Presidents gave a budget preview instead of presenting today a budget for which he is able to prepare experts, a ministry, also accompanying ministries can participate. The Minister of Finance has not presented a budget, and in the course of this debate we are experiencing here, we have come up with why. That means we didn't just get on it, but we've known for a long time. What did the Minister of Finance give of himself? – He said that three points are essential: First: Saving – and then he said a lot about it, but nothing came out in the final effect; second: little new taxes – and then he said a lot about it, but what it really means, what really comes out has not come true; thirdly, Offensive training measures are needed – but we have not yet learned what these offensive measures are. And he said that we need offensive measures in the field of research and development – but we have not received any concrete communications in this respect either. Finally, we have been told that we need to set growth impulses. Ladies and gentlemen, that was nothing! That was nothing at all! That was a helpless speech because today had to be spoken because it was said that one will say today that it is working on the budget. What came out was what was told that had brought my granddaughters together. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] To say that we need to save in this state, as in every budget, that we have to properly assess the sources of revenue – can we achieve even more revenue if we already belong to one of the highest taxed countries in the world? – and that we should take measures to make everything better, everyone would have done so. There is no need for a politically best-trained and padded finance minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We then heard a treachery by Klubobmann Cap. That's a treason because he said: We must always take political feasibility into account. With political feasibility, I fear he meant party-political feasibility. That is, we have to do it again and again with the fact that these two parties, the ÖVP and the SPÖ, who form the coalition, think first of their clients, of those they have to serve, and only then of our state which they have to manage properly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Have you heard anything about structural reform in the statements made by our Minister for Finance? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No!]] Has You hear anything we need to change in the future with regard to federalism? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No!]] It is not a question of taking the respective head of state, whether by red or black, a chance to put his fellow artists in any position. And these are the different levels of our administration. We have to start thinking differently here! Federalism is a wonderful thing. Federalism is good and important, but federalism must not be like the fact that the respective party heads, who are at the same time the heads of state, can raise their own clients in any position, which is then the second, third or even fourth level of administration, where one level is sufficient! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] But you don't think about it. The Minister of Finance has also made no reference to this in today's statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9352	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9372	Let me conclude by saying: I have the impression that we are in a kind of solarium: The ÖVP sits in the sauna, sweats and considers how it can turn bad away from its clientele, and the SPÖ sits in the infrared cabin to get red again. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9405	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9427	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It has been a year since the protests of the students at the Academy of Fine Arts began. A year later, however, students and university members do not actually notice any movement. You must have heard – you cannot ignore it! – that it burns at the university. But arsonists were not the protest movement, but arson-stimulating were facts and facts that show that the university system and tertiary education in Austria are clearly and scarcely underfinanced. They must have the competence to take note of data and facts. I am annoyed by massive anger – even rectors are also annoyed – if you were always to shake your head on international OECD rankings, which do not have a reputation for educational parameters and research parameters, as if the OECD were any jux club or would not apply this data to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The 50 best universities... Access restrictions!]] – Yes, the 50 best universities. All right, then, Mr. Molterer, let's talk about the rankings. Very briefly to the rankings, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Molterer. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Access restrictions and... they all have!]] You should know that in the rankings, not only the research achievements are assessed, but clearly, as parameters, involves the budgetary situation of universities of different nations, even the salary system of university teachers, the structures, the hardware equipment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But also the study fees, the access...!]] And for that, Mr. Molterer, you were responsible – now it's someone else. I hope reason returns! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] With regard to your response speed to data and facts – in particular from you, Mrs. Hakl – on the other hand, a marmot in wintertime would be directly a horse, so slowly moving. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it's crazy! Many people in Austria believe and are convinced that the government consists of well-known experts and their departments. These well-known experts are still providing advice: the Science Council, the Council for Research and Technology Development, the WIFO, the JOANNEUM RESEARCH and so on. All they say is apparently white nonsense, outcast money. – Listen to Mr Aiger, who says that in times of crisis there must be investment in research and education because you get the money back, three times, four times, five times! It is absolutely ridiculous to focus and reduce this discussion on admission restrictions and tuition fees. If we have too few people in the tertiary education sector, it hurts the state. Talk to the thousands of students who want to study and cannot because universities fear them! This is a research policy that is so defensive that every year fire and emergency actions have to be put in place, where parents are also starved when their children find no place. You have allies when we talk about optimizing the reliability of the choice of study. We have made proposals, we are ready to talk about reasonable stages of orientation and start-up, but those who do nothing, who lack any strategy, are ultimately you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if I now hear that education and quality can only be maintained by halving the number of students, then this is the biggest declaration of bankruptcy: I have to halve the number of students – although we need more! – to maintain quality. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I promised you that we would show you green alternatives or ways to finance universities. – I was at four universities yesterday, spoke to x rectors: There has never been a closed front of rectors, university staff, researchers and students in the Second Republic. To disregard that which cannot be seen warning voices as well as suggestions in the wind... – It was a clear signal! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I've set a signal!]] You offered a clear signal today, but I hear it all the time: We invest in research because we least save there. That's too little! - You're doing that. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We're doing this!]] I would say the following: Use a promill of your time – including Mr. Faymann – that you spend on Mayan marquees, spouts or other solidities, and talk to the rectors earlier! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And perhaps an offer – at any time of day and night –: Talk to the scientific speakers! Maybe that can do something. I'm not giving up hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9549	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9571	Mr President. High house! My dear viewers on the ranks and at home! Mr Pröll, you have made a very, very beautiful speech today. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It was a very, very beautiful speech – you have to recognize it – and it was also a very striking analysis of the problem areas that we have. You have addressed the problem areas that we have. Only, my question is: Who would have needed that? Who would have needed that you once again – for the time being – recognize where the problems lie? You have told us that there are problems in schools, there are problems in education, there are health problems, there are problems in pensions – you have put all the problems we have known for decades again on the tapet. And then I wonder, Why? Which one of us would have needed that? Is there any agreement here that we need reform? I think this message has already arrived! But I do not think it has yet arrived with you, because your speech today, Federal Minister, was a statement of motivation, as if you had to convince us that we cannot make debts until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, as if you had to convince us that there is a need for reform in pension, education and in all other systems. You don't need to convince us, so for whom have you spoken today? For the spectators out there? Faith Is it true that the viewers do not yet know that you cannot live on debt at all times and forever? We're even so far that we can't even pay the interest on our debts again – we're already that far! [[Abg. Bucher:... exactly... three years needed!]] In other words, every year we take up new loans to pay interest on our own, so far as we are. And then make yourself up here and try to motivate the people that this can't continue. What have we been talking about for decades? Of course, this cannot continue, and therefore, Federal Minister, be not so self-righteous! And if you don't believe me, if you don't believe the opposition, please, believe the human being! There is now a very up-to-date survey: 90 percent – 90 percent! – the Austrian wants you, Minister of Finance, to consolidate the budget through an administrative reform – 90 percent of the Austrians! And what are you doing? They are here and claim that we are still miles away from administrative reform. – The reasons for this are all you know. I can only recommend one thing: Put on the seven-mile boots and see that you are finally bringing something forward in the matter because people want it from you – and not just the people. For example, IHS-Chief Felder, President of the Court of Auditors Moser, your party friend and President of the Chamber of Economics Leitel, all beg you to do so. – that you are finally doing something about this, and you are not doing anything, Minister. And that's why: What are you waiting for? Does it have to get worse in this republic before you finally do something? You are a very reasonable person – absolutely, I agree with you – and you have once again proved today that you have recognized the problems, you have done so. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes, it is!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Say it! They say so, the others say so!]] Now, many people are wondering: Why has nothing happened for years and decades? And the answer is as sad as it is. The answer is simple. Why is nothing going on in this country? The answer is simple: There's nothing going on because you're afraid of your own party! They are afraid of Mr. Neugebauer, who sits up there and judges you over the civil servants' union: Until here and no further!, you are afraid of the country chiefs, you are of course also afraid of your uncle, Uncle Pröll from Lower Austria, who again provided deep insights in the “Report” yesterday where God dwells. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Bucher: In front of your own uncle!]] You're afraid of all these people, and you're more afraid of your own people than of the voters, because your own people don't forget when you pick them up. [[Abg. Singer:... a therapy!]] The voters, hope you will forget in the next three years if you increase taxes when you extract all the horrors. Then you will distribute a little sugar before you choose and then everything will be all right again. - That's how you imagine it. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] But I'll tell you one thing: Now it's over. Finally, deal with the problems that you have so effectively analysed today, and do something, because you are Minister of Finance for Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9711	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9734	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Faymann has said a few weeks ago, than the economic researchers have become aware that there may be more room for budget planning, clearly that he is in favour of investing these unexpected tax revenues, more revenue in the field of education, science and research. We have found this very important, have been waiting for similar signals from the ÖVP so far, and today, in the speech of Mr Vice-Chancellor, we have also heard the commitment for the first time to use space in the budget for offensive measures, which are important for the future design of the country, i.e. more money for the education sector – expressly stressed also more money for the universities. Mr Vice-Kanzler, I can only fully support this, because we are not only talking about budget planning, about savings, we are also talking about very important changes: the positioning of Europe in the world economy in the next few years, in the coming decades, and the positioning of Austria in Europe. The right and important answer is an educational offensive: Money for an educational offensive, from kindergarten to schools to universities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need, ladies and gentlemen, in our country indeed more well-trained young people, not so that – which is a little obvious in Austria – more people can walk around with titles, but because we need their qualifications in the coming years and decades very urgently. But, Mr Vice-Chancellor, what we do not need is a programme “More money for universities for fewer students”. – That, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, would be the wrong way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Where's the vice chancellor?]] The measures you have linked to ‘more money for universities’, namely study fees and access restrictions – I do not know if you have seen the effects of whether you have looked at the numbers, how far you have been dealing with them – mean that. This is the program “Less students”, and that would be the wrong way. The tuition fees you have introduced have led to fewer students in our country; in the first year it was equal to minus 16 percent. [[Abg. May. Hakl: On paper!]] No, that wasn't just the famous cartels, because they weren't the beginners, but really people who just didn't start. [[Abg. May. Hakl: But more done too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I always wonder, What is the famous steering effect on tuition fees? – And there I received a clear answer on Sunday in the “Kurier” from the competent minister, who now even requires higher tuition fees for the most popular courses of study, so – and you hear and marvel! – There are fewer people starting there. That means, quite frankly, the clear statement: Study fees so that fewer people start studying – and we strongly reject this, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] I am well aware that those who have more, who deserve more wealth, should contribute more, including to the financing of universities, to the financing of the education system as a whole. We are talking about a high-quality public education system which is socially funded from public resources. That is why, in the context of an educational offensive, it is also very important that new sources of revenue for the budget are also made available that those who have a great deal and do nothing or do very little to contribute to the financing of the education system in the future. Access restrictions mean, among other things, that in the studies, where there are access restrictions, significantly fewer people can study. And that's not enough. There's always being negotiated, and from year to year, it's even less. That is, we do not have the problem at the universities that we have too few students, the problem is that we have poor study conditions, and therefore we need more budget resources: more budget for more students, for better study conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] So, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we are also staying on the basis of the government programme two years after the negotiations. In the negotiations on the government programme, we excluded tuition fees and excluded access restrictions. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] We have said that we want to go the way of better information, so that the students know in time where there are good study conditions where it is difficult. We also want to improve the entry-level phases. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] In total, a yes to more resources, but for more young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9847	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e9868	Mr. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark: Mr Grünewald, not to be angry, but because of what you said to Mrs Hakl, you would be quoted in the German Bundestag before the Council of Elders. – You know for yourself whether you can answer for that. Ladies and gentlemen! Saving, so it sounds across the country, is appropriate. – Yes, there is nothing to add to it, but reality is also that we should not be worse than it actually is. In fact, reality is the following: In 1980 we had a debt ratio of 35.3 percent of the gross domestic product, ten years later one of 56.2 percent, in 2000 one of 66.5 percent and 2007 there was a significant decline, a significant improvement to 59.3 percent. We will only now have a significant increase due to this crisis and its dramatic effects. – Other countries would be happy if they had the Austrian figures and facts, ladies and gentlemen! With all the drama and all the accusations and perhaps also the one or other correct proposal of saving: Mr Strache said there was a need to save State Secretary. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – You can talk about it, yes, but I would have an even better proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: Make a concrete proposal yourself! Go ahead with a good example: Make the request that you give up your party promotion! Receive only in Vienna You're now €3 million more. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] If the numbers of colleague Sickinger, the political scientist, vote, you will cash €7 million in party funding in Vienna – alone in Vienna! I don't want to know what this is in the whole of Austria. In this respect, you could submit a request. Save it! This would be much more than saving two State Secretarys. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Linder.]] Mr Strache can't leave it: He always has to raise the accusation that the banks would be put billions in the throat, according to his statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] – First of all, this necessary bank assistance package was tied with the voice and voice of the FPÖ. It is not to be shaken: With his voice and the voice of the FPÖ. This is also to be recognized, because it was important to ensure the stability of the Austrian banks – in the sense of the savers, in the sense of Austria's credit quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart:... Speculators!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one should also say how much the federal government from this bank aid package has netled up to now: At the end of 2010, it will be €500 million net, which he has earned. I would like such a package more often. Secondly, Mr Konrad doesn't need a defender here, but one thing you should hold –: Col. Christian Konrad is not a board of directors of a bank. [[Abg. Grosz: Is he also a Member?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] It is important to distinguish between the investment banks that have given us these miseries, and the Austrian real banking landscape, which has tried to finance the real economy, not according to the American system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: My suggestion!]] I note that the Austrian Federal Government is trying to reduce the budget deficit by means of a threefold strategy: through a long-term balanced budget over the economic cycle, ensuring economic growth, and – the Federal Minister for Finance has made it clear today – that investing in smoking minds instead of smoking locks, in clear text: more money for universities, more for education, ladies and gentlemen. However, we also need a reasonable degree of socialism, because it also requires reliability. If you already think, Mr Krainer, that in some areas imbalances are difficult, then I would ask you to have a conversation with the board of directors of voestalpine, Dr. Eder, perhaps with Mr. Ederer of Lenzing, perhaps with colleague Ederer of Siemens, perhaps also with colleague Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, or perhaps also with colleague Ruttenstorfer from the OMV, how important it is that there be such head companies in Austria, who secure thousands of people's work and employment and lead the productive industries to responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some times it is also meant that the basic tax would have to be increased significantly, because agriculture would not pay a basic tax, because it would be as if only the farmer was paying land tax A and the land tax B others. I'll hold on to this. Farms and farms also have to pay the same basic tax B if they rebuild their dwelling. To make this clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And in the face of all the excitement, I note that all budget experts said and recommended that we should first wait for economic development. Let us look forward to this excellent economic development! The State has contributed to this with the economic programmes, and the rest of the federal states have also done so.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10007	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10028	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in the House! Values Advisors and Advisors Home on the TV screens! I hope it didn't hit you on the stomach, what you've heard in the last few hours or minutes. I don't know how you did it, but I did it today when I saw that the Minister of Finance, accompanied by the Federal Chancellor in the Schlepptau, had the entire Federal Government, that I was actually thinking of a popular state holiday. I have expected today to be familiar with truly groundbreaking innovations, forward-looking ideas or measures, to explain how to govern this country in the future or how to cope with the crisis over the last two years. But at the latest after this speech, it is clear to me why he took all of them: because he needs them as a personal protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is in need of what you have offered here today. All you've offered today in your so-called government statement, or whatever you want to call it, was more than poor. It was a revelation that this government either does not want to work or simply cannot. I'll tell you one thing: You will no longer need this personal protection, because, at the latest at the next election, today's spectators will be aware that you, this federal government, this Finance Minister and this Federal Chancellor, have been permanently abandoning not only Parliament but the whole population for two years. That's not to be discussed away. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, you have spoken today about taking measures to prevent us from reaching a debt limit of 80 or 90 percent of GDP, because then we are sitting on a powder barrel. And you have said that the measures will lead to us staying below. But you have not mentioned with any single word how these measures should look at areas in which you want to save in which areas you want to increase taxes, it was extremely poor. You have referred to three points: firstly: Save, second: Taxation, third: remove structural discrepancies. When saving, you addressed the promotions. Yes, I am quite right to say that Austria has funding, which is twice as high as the EU's average. You also have our support when savings are made here. But they have not mentioned with any single word the superfluous bureaucracy, the inflated administration, all the double liquefactions that lead over federal and country to the districts. All this has been mentioned by you with no single word. The only thing you have spoken about, Mr Finanzminister, and the television viewers also have to think about it: They suggested saving family benefits. And I can only tell you that's the worst thing you could ever do. I am not saying this because I am family spokespersons of our party, but because I am spokespersons of our party. Here I also appeal to our Minister for Economic Affairs: Now we have been yelling for months and years that we have a shortage of skilled workers in Austria. We speak of 40 000 skilled people who are missing in Austria, there are 400 000 in Germany, and there are similar numbers in other countries in Central Europe. So we are talking about a shortage of skilled workers of well over a million skilled people who are missing us in Central Europe on the labour market in order to be able to hold on economically to stay ahead of us worldwide and to further stabilise us as an export country. But none of you can tell me where to take these professionals. They all know that in the former Eastern Bloc countries, which belong to the EU today, too few specialists exist – whether in Poland, in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria or anywhere else. You want with your hands Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. You must change your family policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must finally make sure that our young people can afford more than one or two children again. You know that we are now in the precarious situation that in addition to this shortage of skilled workers we have, we are adding the weak years of birth. This means that the labour market is much less affected. And if you don't finally rethink in family policy, you're hard on the wood road – not only here in Austria, but in all of Central Europe. I hope you finally get it. Now I'm gonna tell you something that really shakes me the most: Now it's been two years since you presented your government program. You presented this government programme at a time when we were already in the financial and economic crisis. So they already knew about the problems at the time. And you have not implemented a single point of it, I even claim you have forgotten your own government programme. I'll call you a few points. Page 11: “Relieving measures must be taken to strengthen competitiveness. The focus is on reducing the administrative burden by simplifying the system...” – nothing happens! “measures to promote business start-ups” – nothing happens! Page 12: “Relief of the factor labour” – nothing happens! And so you could continue this until the end of the government program. Wake up at last! Work for the people of our country, and don't sleep in front of you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10123	I welcome the members of the delegation of the Security Commission of the Swiss National Council with its Head of Delegation, Jakob Büchler, in our midst. Please be welcome! [[General condolences.]] Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10153	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, you have today remained guilty of one of the Austrians, namely to clarify how, in the central areas of school, kindergarten, universities, research and the entire tax system, Austria is going to become an innovative, modern economic system, secure jobs. You have remained guilty of this, and I think it would be time to go beyond the budgetary consolidation standings for a long time. It is not a question, and it is also important for me that it is clarified: Budget consolidation yes, in order not to limit the scope for action of the future, but it is the question: How is it done? Structural conservative, walls of old pillars, or do you enter a modern, intelligent control system? That is to say, greening taxes, which is, of course, bank charges, financial transaction taxes and capital increases. This would mean modernity and targeted work. The calming games you have distributed today by simply dropping keywords like “education”, “research”, “universities” and saying, if we have spaces, we will strengthen these areas already, these calming games should not be there No longer present – Mr Sozialminister is – that in the last few days and weeks it has been sent through again and again, what is meant when it is said that it is to be saved. And I would like to address one point, namely the care allowance. What is the point of hearing that there should be difficult access to levels 1 and 2? Stage 1 care allowance is 154 € for people with a care requirement of 51 to 75 hours. 154 € for 51 to 75 hours of care, which the caregivers need, sick, old people – this results in an hourly wage of about 2 to 3 €. Mr Finanzminister, you must admit: Such discussions are absolutely embarrassing, and such measures would be the ones most urgently needed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No question, we need modern, secure jobs, and they don't get safer or greener when our Minister of Agriculture Niki Berlakovich advertises on green jobs – no, green jobs need investment offensives, who need a new eco electricity law and who, of course, need a new control in the system of environmental and social taxes, they need to be put in the center. That's exactly what it's going to be all about. You haven't made that clear so far, and that's something we're missing. You know exactly, the crisis is far from over, we're not through yet, and ultimately it's about investing intelligently. Intelligent investment does not mean, as you decided in May, 1.4 percent minus in the research field, no, intelligent investment means starting investment offensives and does not mean, just as it is happening right now, hesitating and yawning. What you achieve with it is an uncertainty, is the play of opportunities and thus also a threat to the future. That's what thousands of students, teachers and university professors told you yesterday. As we have guests from Switzerland with us: They're gonna make it right. There will be massive investment in research. This is actually a country that is based on the future and invests accordingly in this field – not in Austria, where only eight researchers come to a thousand employees. It is now about securing exactly this future area. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since all of this has been adjudicated today, we Greens will give you the opportunity to document here today that it is also serious to you, namely by submitting the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are serious about what the Minister of Finance has said today, you support the green request!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10247	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10373	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10394	Mr President. High house! It is good, very good, when a Swiss delegation is with us, because Switzerland is a model country for how to set up a budget, how to set very specific priorities in research, in education. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: They're gone already!]] You are already gone, but the idea, Mr Minister, could inspire you that you too are willing to focus on research, education or also on university policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister, I am grateful that you are here at all today, because you do not always live up to your name. You are the Minister of Budget, but last year I did not actually see you in the Committee on Budgets. I wonder where you're always there. But you seem to have prepared some for your speech today. It has already been mentioned: Save – now! As far as new taxes are concerned, I am, in fact, massively opposed. – Is the Minister of Finance now quite gone? Where is he? [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: No, no, he's here anyway!]] He's here anyway, very good! You, Mr Finanzminister, have announced to do something in the administration, but there was nothing specific about it: Where in the administration is saved? What taxes do you plan? Are you putting the Austrians a savings package under the Christmas tree? Are the small and the socially weak punished with a higher fuel tax, with a electricity tax, with rising heating costs? Is it about punishing the performance-oriented middle class, which ÖVP has also discovered, by overtime tax? What's really in the bush? – No one knows, there is a standstill in this government. The experts say it, too. I'm not always the opinion of Wifo-chef Aigerger, but this one also thinks that one should force the future fields: Research, education, environmental policy. But he also says other things, for example, that the construction of the coral tunnel should be stopped or that the hacker regulation should be abolished. We are not of the opinion, but we are very sure that we should support the fields of the future. I am here on the main subject, on science policy, which is the largest construction site in this Republic, which actually does not take place at all. The science budget is currently €2.7 billion. We would immediately need another education billion, a science billion, divided into four years, as Germany shows us. The Germans invest €12 billion in the next four years. Covered in Austria would be 1 billion €. That shows us how it works. We have ambitious objectives in the government programme: 3 per cent of GDP for research and development, but, unfortunately, God lacks the concrete measures and the political will of this federal government. You don't have the courage to touch hot topics either. There is an ideological discussion, for example, on the question of access to universities. Study fees are available in every second country in the EU. So that's not bad, it's not bad. One should put the facts and data on the table. Interestingly, there are study fees also in Spain, which may be interesting for the SPÖ Group. There you have a Social Democratic Prime Minister with Zapatero, there the Social Democrats are ruling – and Spain also has tuition fees. So please stop misrepresenting this, but put the facts on the table! Because one thing is clear: With the introduction of study fees you can also clean up with the students in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The fact is that 30 000, 40 000 students left the universities after the study fees were introduced under Orange-Black at the time, creating room for 30 000, 40,000 voluntary students, who also found proper places to study. That is the point of this discussion. [[Abg. Krainer: I don't know!]] I know you like to breed from SPÖ students who are willing to protest for your cause, for your left thing. I am in favour of ensuring that the performance-oriented, voluntary students find proper places to study where they can also study accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There we are at the same time as the registration fees – as is a topic. Why are there no registration fees? They are available all over the world, only in Austria. 5 000 € Enrollment fee – except for the Austrians who get it back like a university bonus. If you now say that this would be EU-law, then we will start with the students who come from non-EU countries. That alone is more than 20,000 students, and that would bring a sum of well over €100 million. Or: Why does this government not negotiate compensatory payments for students from other countries who are studying here? There is this at community level, there are these school contributions, but at European level one does not do it. The Belgians are doing this, so-called compensation fees, so that there is no swimming pool of French people at their universities. Where is the statement of this government? She's not taking place. There would be much to say, even in terms of content. A higher education plan is missing. A clear financing concept is missing. It is about defining the development of infrastructure in the field of education. It is also about the future of the Curia System, Faculty System, which enables careers for young researchers, for young academics. All of this is in motion, here's a standstill. The whole thing must also be seen in Konnex with the FTI strategy, with the research, technology and innovation strategy that does not take place. Promises for autumn this year – until today it is not on the table. But not only is the strategy missing, it also lacks the money for it. And just to hear that it may be a little more, it's really too little for me. Summary: This government does not have to prepare for the budget in terms of content. It has not put any concrete savings measures on the table. It has no concept in science and university. It has no concept of research and development. I would therefore like to say to you: Finally start to work like any other Austrian, and stop You stand still so that Austria has the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10481	We'll come to the last round of speakers. I limit the speaking time to 4 minutes. After 4 minutes, I finish, then there's a short closing point. Please have time for discipline! I call Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken action against the economic crisis in this House together. Some of us have agreed together, some of which we have decided by majority. But all the measures we have put in place were borne by the desire to carry out Austria as well as possible through this financial and economic crisis and to create the best possible framework conditions for the post-crisis period. It was clear from the beginning, from the first day, that the question will be asked: How will the funds now being spent be repaid, and how can debt be further reduced? That is not a question of anyone. But let us remember what was before the crisis! Before the crisis, Austria fulfilled the Maastricht criteria. We weren't that bad on the road at all. I therefore find it really worrying and rather cynical to more than three million workers in this country, if some say today that we have lived over our conditions. – Yes, who lived over his conditions?- Oh, my God! The three million workers are certainly not! This is a blow to the face of all those in this country who go to work every day when they have to listen today, they have lived over their conditions! We can't stop that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is therefore: Who pays the bill for the crisis? We have said this from the beginning, the question will then be: Who pays the bill? What is happening right now is a ring to get the best possible results to see where in the last episode the payments come from and who pays the bill for this crisis. The question is also: Who contributes to this? If you say today, as some previous speakers have said, that public debt is unsocial, you have to look at it: Who will contribute to the budget, to the tax revenue? We know that around two thirds of the total revenue of the State comes from the wage and income and from the value added tax, anything else together makes up less than one third. It is perfectly clear that there is a distribution injustice, a wrong situation, and it is a matter of setting up measures for greater justice – for more tax justice, for more distribution justice. [[Abg. Booker: Don't talk nonsense.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be said that those who already contribute most of the time can be asked to do so again. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You have introduced this!]] I honestly ask: How does anyone here in this House want to explain to an employee or a worker that in our country in the year of crisis the number of millionaires has increased – we have more millionaires than ever before – while at the same time trying to convey some that workers, pensioners and pensioners should now pay the token? It's about trust. This also applies to employees, which also applies to pensioners. But those who have worked for 45 years, who are long-term insured, now pretend to be the super-privileged, that is another blow in the face of these fellow Members, and we will not allow that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this debate, many talk about “spare” and my “cut-in” – cutting into the social sphere, cutting into the health sector. To this process we say: Not with us! This not only does not create new jobs, it not only does not create purchasing power, but it also threatens economic development. I am now saying very clearly – even my colleague, silently because of his remarks – to the Director-General of Lenzing and others who have made great posters, we have to say clearly who they are responsible for. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Don't pretend they're just there to secure jobs! They are there to make profits, they are there to distribute these profits as well. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Last sentence: The distribution rate in the Austrian industry in 2009 – in the year of crisis! – with 33.7 percent compared to the owners was much higher than in the years before. If there is money for the industry, there must also be money for the people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10588	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10610	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Katzian, that was pure class struggle, and we certainly cannot use it in this situation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is about the future of young people in our country. We have recorded a €10 billion down this year, and you, as union president, are here calling for measures that are no longer to be represented. Shame! [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm telling you as a trade unionist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to put the budget back in order, ladies and gentlemen. We must not build the future for young people in this country. Everyone will have to make a contribution to rehabilitating the budget – everyone, all professional groups – but there is no class struggle about how this budget creation should look. The budget must be socially balanced and socially balanced. This is not a question for us, it is not a question of dispute. As an Austrian People's Party, we will be protecting ourselves from the working people in this country, because these are the ones, ladies and gentlemen, who fill the tax pots that will allow social benefits to be granted in our country at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We present ourselves to these people, because only with these revenues can it be possible that social prosperity can also be secured for the future and for the coming generations. [[Abg. Silhavy: Don't!]] We have a social rate of 30 percent, which is one of the highest in Europe. We stand to a social country, we will help those who need our help who cannot help themselves, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also be prepared to act. We have a demographic development that is worrying, and therefore we must act particularly in the field of pensions; otherwise, the generations that are to come have no future and we face a cost explosion. – Mr Katzian, you should know that! What do we have you in the union as president if you don't even know about these numbers? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On average, we retire at about 59 years. It's just too early. Because of the God, thanks to the high life expectancy we have, we must act accordingly. Mr Katzian, turn this off with your colleague Haberzettl, he's sitting two rows in front of you! On average, the ÖBB officials go to retirement at 52 years of age, in some federal states we have systems that allow us to retire at 54, with 56 years of age. This is not portable, ladies and gentlemen. This is unfair and unfair. Where is the social justice of the SPÖ? [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] All others are required to work up to 60, 62 or 65 years. It is an hour's commandment – and this is necessary in the context of this budget creation – that the retirement age in pensions is harmonised. The debt is not due to employees in these areas, but the system is due to it. Employees are often pushed into the system and sent to retirement. – We will not allow that in the future, ladies and gentlemen! We need to bring sustainability into the system. Finally, a word on the much-discussed hacker rule. ==References== This scheme was made unfinanceable on September 2008! Yes, we have also voted in favour – that was a mistake, I also declare myself – of bringing free time into this system, sick leave, working time. The long-term insurance scheme was used last year by 25 percent. This cannot be financed in the future, ladies and gentlemen. We must abolish these privileges. In the future, however, benefits must also be paid in the form of pensions. Those who pay in a system for a long time must also be taken into account. That's what we're standing for. Performance carriers must be taken into account. This also applies to pensions, ladies and gentlemen. That's what the ÖVP stands for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I call on the Minister for Social Affairs to present an overall package.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10701	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10723	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! One has the impression that if one follows this debate, the government has resolved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are obviously only opposition parties. Because of this impression, which is given here by SPÖ and ÖVP, there is great doubt as to whether there will be a budget at all. Given these differences that have been carried out here, it can be assumed that this will not work. Mr Pröll, you have never been in the private sector – and this is evident from the remarks you have made today. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: In the protected party workshop!]] If you were once in the private sector, you knew that under such a time pressure that you have imposed on yourself, such important negotiations can never be done positively. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Yes!]] You have imposed this time pressure on yourself by thinking that you must necessarily wait for the elections in Styria and Vienna in order not to be punished to the extent that it was then. Has it been worth the 10th? Wait for October? - I'm saying it's worth it. The voters spoke. The coalition lost 10 percent of its votes, in Vienna the SPÖ lost the absolute, and we, the liberals, reached 26 percent of the votes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a constituency! The voters do not want the Constitution to be broken. The voters want the government to act and work. Mr Pröll, what you have given of yourself today is an increase of the voters! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This helplessness that you have given the best of today really screams to heaven. I reminded you of your speech on 14 November. ==References====External links== I was in the Ministry of Finance at the time and I thought: What the moan is doing, what he's up to is a great thing, hat off! But what has become of it? I certainly can't list everything for time, but some important things: Mr Pröll said that the consolidation of finances was very important to him at the time. He mentioned Sweden and Finland as examples. – The Sweden today has a 4 percent increase in the budget, we have the highest deficit and the highest government debt of all time. 200 billion debt, 125 billion liabilities, 8 billion interest, 23 000 € per capita debt – a scandal bad! I must say that a debt brake, as Switzerland introduced it, would be what we would need in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time, you, Mr Finanzminister, said that the banks and the financial markets of the future had to be set up, European financial market supervision and so on. What happened? – The euro has stood before the crash, you have transferred €2.28 billion of tax money to Greece, no EU control of the banking sector, no EU rating agency that fears savers for their savings. It came out. There is therefore an urgent need for action. The important reforms must be addressed as soon as possible. If you need help – we would like to help, we could. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A key element of administrative reform. – Just the opposite is made! I remember the e-control, there an additional managing director has been used, and that is not what we imagine. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] We don't need new taxes either. We do not need new taxes, there must be no increase in moss, it does harm the economy. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Your “Project Austria” is only on paper, Mr. Finanzminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10828	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10849	Mr President. Our Swiss guests have left the Hohe Haus again. You have something better to do, just as we would have something better to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger]] Those who have expected a preferred budget speech today have, of course, been disappointed. Mr Pröll, you mentioned structural problems, among other things, without explaining in detail what you understand, except for the hacker scheme. In my opinion, we have many structural problems, but we have a huge structural problem, and that is the cowardice of the Federal Government, especially the vice-chancer and finance minister, but of course also the chancellor, in front of the voters, that is the cowardice of the federal government before the national leaders, and this is a decision-making unrest of the Federal Government, which has really been taking every measure for months now. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why the federal government's cowardice before the national leaders? – I would have expected that, after the attack by Erwin Pröll on the school system in Austria, all ministers – whether black or red – will be in the air. No, you just take note of that! – That’s “no attack ”?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Rädler: That's not an attack!]] I take Mr. Kopf at the word, and I understood it today in such a way that he opposes the “neutral” – that was Their expression – of school life in Austria. Half the hall, I think, didn't understand what it might mean. I assume that this is a rejection of Erwin Pröll's attack on the uniform school system in Austria. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] I take you to the floor, Mr President. If at least these Lower Austrians had something to offer us in terms of efficiency. At the last meeting, I already met with Mr Radler because I have allowed myself to point out that Lower Austria as a country has the highest debt of all nine federal states, and the second highest per capita debt. Also the municipalities in Lower Austria have seen by far the highest indebtedness in billions of €, absolutely, and the highest per capita debt, even before Carinthia. But this is not taken note of; these are the official data in the report of the national debt committee. And these people want to tell the covenant how to rule? The cowardice before the voters is already known. – Nothing to say, to hope you can dizzy. To this end, it can only be said that our ladies and gentlemen have been oriented towards Germany, that Mrs. Chancellor Merkel can delay the Greece package for four months, hoping to win the elections in North Rhine-Westphalia. The opposite was the case. What conclusions does the Federal Government draw? – Renewed because of failure. You think: We can also play this game. We don't tell voters what's going on before the elections. Did we find out today? - No, it's not. Wehmut reminds us of some of the budget speeches of the past, I remember the last or the last budget speech by Ferdinand Lacina, the analyticalally high, interesting talk at that time about the tension relationship between individual taxation on the one hand and the need for, on the other hand, efficiency, which, of course, also depends on the private budget, on the size of the household. A very interesting story. What have we learned today? – Interest development needs to be slowed down. We have known this for a year, Minister of Finance! We know all of that. As an incorrigible optimist, I assume you'll do something for the universities. What this “something ” is, we will learn before the end of the year. You will have to open the Federal Financial Framework Act, and you will have to make more money available than before, otherwise the university will burn – and that is to all our harm, not just to the detriment of the students.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10917	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10938	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The clause in Loipersdorf makes a lot of sense if I have heard the conflicts that have occurred openly here. Loipersdorf in Styria – Before, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not make a second knee field out of Loipersdorf by ending the battles in a break, dear colleague Bartenstein! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Wöginger, you want to abolish privileges in the pension area! – Hurra, you will find with us a majority to abolish, for example, the civil servant privilege that the section head can retire after 40 years of service after the hacker’s regulation, while the real worker needs 45 years of service. That would be a very concrete measure that we could take and implement immediately. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister, we have been waiting for this day for weeks and months. With longing, we waited for you to finally leave the cat out of the bag today and let us know the figures about the budget. The elections are over, now you can reveal something. What have we heard from you today? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly nothing!]] The Minister of Finance has already said something: If you want to clean up a budget, you have to save. – We have been waiting weeks and months for this knowledge. We need to reweight the new budget. – We also waited for it. We need a new justice, we need to see exactly what the money is spent on. Specific points were also raised: consistent saving, as little as possible new taxes, creating spaces for priority areas, and Austria must become future-oriented. Then it was very specific about education. We are waiting for you to finally find a concept for a future-oriented education. – The statement of the Minister of Finance: No new money for old hoses. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to think a lot of things about this, but I just say: Only this announcement of all the problems we have to deal with is a declaration of bankruptcy, Mr. Finanzminister, all the disputes, the latest reports that it is not even possible to discuss a new division of competence with the communities. To implement truly forward-looking measures, the municipal budgets to control the national budgets more closely – nothing of all will be implemented, only plains, public places. Only if tax increases are due on taxpayers, you are creative. That'll be the next news. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That today, when you come here as Minister of Finance after weeks and months of silence, the ceasefire, the cover-up for party political reasons because of the country elections, you say: Anyone who wants to clean up the budget must save!, which is very, very little, will probably admit you yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! I really wish you all the best for the next days at the wellness hotel. Go there, relax! It would be best for you to stay there and we would have another government that really cares about the problems of our country and people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e10999	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11020	Mr President. Finally, the budget debate is to be concluded: The only essential thing that has come this morning – but not from the members of the government, but here from the speaker’s desk – is the re-election of Klubobmann H.-C. Strache. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Government! If you are not able to rule this country, get away! [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Our future, the future of our children also depends on your work, and today you have seen it powerfully in the bale of this government. Are you still with your government partner, Mr. Klubobmann Cap? Are you still on the same way to rehabilitate this country of Austria? - I don't think so. [[Abg. Stache: Right now only Marx and Murks!]] That is why this government has been serving, and I urge all Members to make this request by H.-C. Stitch to help send the government to the desert.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11068	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues, on priority for research, education and innovation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[13:02:17]] 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2009 (III-176 d.a.) and on the Financial statements for the year 2009 – 1. Part (Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes) (Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes) (Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11138	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11165	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The issue we are discussing on this item on the agenda is the financial statements for the year 2009. A number of important figures are: The public deficit amounted to €9.6 billion – a huge amount! – or 3.5 percent of GDP. This made it much worse than 2008. In 2008, we had a deficit of 0.5 percent or 1.3 billion €. The government debt ratio fell gradually and slowly from 2001 to 2007. Thank God! Unfortunately, however, in 2008 and 2009 we increased the debt ratio to 67.6 percent. And with regard to the expected deficits in the coming years, it will be well over 70 percent. It is striking that in 2009 the countries fell very strongly into the minus, which is to almost €2 billion, after they achieved a plus of €357 million in 2008. It is also striking that the Styria and the country of Lower Austria are very much involved in the construction of these debts. A separate chapter is the ÖBB. It's been talked about several times. You have to imagine that in 2009 the federal government pumped €6,5 billion into the ÖBB, into the Group. The debt in the Group still amounts to € 17.0 billion, the retirement age – it has already been mentioned today – is still 52.5 years, with the average of all others at 59 years. Staff costs alone in the ÖBB amount to €2.32 billion, and it is striking that 90 percent of employees are classified in the highest possible range with 45 000 employees. [[Abg. Haberzetl: Incredible!]] It's about the right person, Mr Haberzettl. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Haberzettl is responsible for all these developments – probably in order for the Bundesbahners, but for the general public a disaster, Mr Haberzettl. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm surprised you can still say in this situation: In the area of pensions, the railway is over – we have done so first, and that remains the case! In times like this, where the budgetary situation is so serious, you, like Mr Neugebauer, would also have the duty to enter into negotiations for the State of Austria in order to bring these privileges out of the table. That would be decent, but you don't, Mr Haberzettl! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, the proposals of the Freedom Party: No new, no higher taxes, because the economy cannot handle this at the moment! The structural reform is one of the major pieces that we have to address. There must be clear competences between the federal, state and local authorities. As an example, I would like to mention the management of care funds, which we discussed in the last Committee on the Court of Auditors. There is a federal care fund law and nine national care laws, of course with huge differences and interpretations, amounts and heights. There are 280 different jobs that administer the care money, and 10 percent of the care money goes to the administration. These are things that are not sustainable! The procedure lasts 40 days or 137 days, depending on the federal state, the medical advice. It'll cost all the money. That's not how it is! In the last Court of Auditors, I found myself in a certain conflict with Mr Hundstorfer, for he said: Unfortunately, there is nothing to do with God, for the covenant and the countries cannot agree! That's what it's all about! The Federal Government and the Länder must agree on a proper approach in these matters, because only in this way can we achieve a reasonable administrative reform. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In conclusion: In the last "press hour" Mr Aiginger spoke quite correctly about a future plan that needs to be made nationally. I understand that all major exponents of this state should stand together and work out this future plan. And he says quite right: The brother is not allowed to break in again. “Brother light sense” means that new taxes are spreading again – and we are going over to the agenda, because that is the simplest thing in the world. We have already seen that at the first stage of the budgetary negotiations the countries were fed down by a third, i.e. a third of the increased taxes are given to the countries. That's not how it's going to be! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11238	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11259	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With the President's approval, I would like to thank a colleague very much at the beginning of my speech, Mr Lutz Weinzinger, whom I know he will relinquish his mandate today. And I don’t want to do it so much under “all-due” but at the beginning of my speech. Whoever knows colleagues Weinzinger appreciates him. [[As a result, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of this Regulation to the following areas:]] Mr Weinzinger is a man of hand-beating quality who is expressly held. I would like to thank you very much for the reliability and excellent work in the Committee on Budgets, where you were always there as a committee deputy whenever you were needed. Let's just say, You're gonna miss us! [[New appeal to ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ as well as to representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we wish Mr Weinzinger of course the very best in the most difficult “job” of life, namely in retirement. [[Abg. Dolinschek: And the most dangerous, Lutz!]] – And the most dangerous one is said by the former Secretary of State; he must know. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In all the critical evaluation of the Austrian budget, of the federal accounts, reality is that, considering the environment, the economic problems, the crisis situation of the year 2008 and, above all, the year 2009, one must say that we are not so bad. The fact is that most of the federal states in Austria have tried, but of course there are also problems in some. But it is above all also the fact that most countries of Europe would be pleased that they could have those figures as Austria has them. We belong to the best quarter in the European Union, so we are practically in the benchmark, and therefore we should not pretend to be as catastrophic as it is, according to the motto: Almost everyone is fine, but everyone is dissatisfied. That doesn't help us any more. And there are statements from non-insignificant economic managers that – and this could also apply to politics – economic activity begins in the head. – And in the heart, you could say. And if everything is constantly mistreated, who should still have optimism? Then who else should trust? Then who else is to invest? Then who else should have courage for the future? Let us note that we are not so bad with our debt ratio! Let us note that we are outstanding in comparison with the employment figures in Europe! Let us note that the Austrian banks have managed the stress test perfectly! Ladies and gentlemen, if you are taking stock of the year 2009 – and nothing else is the federal accounts than the 2009 balance sheet – the balance sheet for Austria is not so bad at all, but it is the confirmation of a perfect budget planning. And if the new budgetary law, which has been unanimously decided, is now taking such a stand – and we should be pleased about it – the Federal Ministry is to be thanked, in particular, for the budget section with its official chief Dr. Steger. It has been a master achievement that is recognized worldwide. Let us hold on to this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] All claims – and I ask the opposition speakers to remember – otherwise they could be removed from their speeches in order to document what they have predicted about this budget – that it was not worth the paper on which it is printed that it would be wrong the next day that it would be absolutely necessary to re-determine it, because the economy would be much worse, the figures would be much worse, the budget revenue would have been too optimistic, and, and, and so. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, it's more than a point landing, it's better than forecast! And so it will be in 2010. Let's enjoy it! Despite a significant drop in economic performance, we have managed, through appropriate measures by the Austrian Federal Government – economic packages et cetera – to revitalize the economy, especially thanks to forward-looking economic policies in the companies and their responsible managers, and thanks to tens of thousands of outstanding workers and employees who do great work here. And even in the most difficult times when short-time work was necessary, one has managed to revitalize and stabilise the economy. Now to the so many shodden banks. – Ladies and gentlemen, Upper Austria is a federal country with excellent economic figures, with employment figures that can be seen, with de facto no debt, and in Upper Austria, our bank alone carries 27 companies with more than 7 000 employees through this crisis, so that these workers get their money at the beginning of the month so that these companies can secure their jobs. We should therefore be glad that we have stable banks in Austria. We should be pleased that the government has succeeded in making such an economic policy that these figures, which appear in the federal accounts, have also been implemented and thus social security is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11323	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the invitation of the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Josef Moserder, President of the Court of Auditors and Ombudsman of the State of Israel, Judge Micha Lindenstrauss, I am attending as a listener in the log of this debate. I would like to welcome you very warmly to the House, to the Austrian Parliament. [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11359	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear viewer! We are talking today about the federal accounts, and that is exactly where we are seeing the errors and the problem areas that the Minister of Finance has also addressed today, which he is supposed to have recognized now and where he wants to remedy. – Alone, I lack faith. When I look at what the Minister of Finance has already promised and said – and I just want to quote a few from January and from the end of February this year. bring res –: I have no reason to think about tax increases. – He kept saying that in several interviews. But he was already aware of how disastrous the budget situation is. And yet he has either told us the untruth or he has actually believed that the budget can also be reorganised on the part of expenditure, as the President of the Court of Auditors believes. Finally, a 60-40 has come out, so the government has agreed to save 60 percent on expenditure and 40 percent on new taxes. Today I heard something that surprised me: The Minister of Finance has said that families too should make a contribution and that the reduction in family benefits for him is an expenditure-side rehabilitation. Either this is a label flaw – or the Minister of Finance has misunderstanded something here, because the reduction in family benefits is like a tax. This is not an expenditure recovery, it is like a tax. I could immediately collect a child tax and in the end achieve the same effect, namely that the families have less in the money tax. That's the point. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That means – before we get a language confusion here –: If we want to improve expenditure on the one hand, then we must save on the administration, save on the ministries, save on all those things that do not burden people, but that burden our common good. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moser, has legions of proposals that could be taken here. It is not a week when the Court of Auditors will not send documents showing how we can do better and how we can reorganise expenditure without burdening people. It is now simply time to listen to it, and I also hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will say something about it today. We finally need to appreciate the experts accordingly and to take up and implement the proposals, even if it is difficult in our own party – I can well understand that, I have said that before. Of course, the Minister of Finance is difficult, that is not a question, there are huge resistances, but ultimately it must be. Mr Pröll, if you say that we have lived on our conditions: We have not lived over our circumstances – you have lived over your circumstances, Mr. Finanzminister, the whole government has lived over their conditions, and that must stop! Not people have lived over their conditions – that's the point, and here you have to stop.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11420	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11441	Mr President. First of all, introduction: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please send to your staff the thanks of my group for the preparation of this invoice and for the preparation of these documents for us. Now you could say: They only do their work anyway!, but still this is an important work for the house and for us. I am not surprised by this lustless debate, because the billing only confirms that this government has done a very, very good job in the year of crisis. He shows that all economic parameters are very good, especially in the European comparison: very low unemployment in the European comparison – the lowest even – a relatively low indebtedness in the European comparison et cetera. In this respect, I understand that you can get a maximum of some semantic tricks here, which is both expenditure and revenue-side. But the House's reaction has already shown that most people do not understand what Mr Lugar wants to say here. What the SPÖ has always said is that it is not crucial whether one- or one-off measures are taken. It doesn't matter to the citizen – you're right – whether he's paying more wage tax or getting less family support, because: He's got less money at the end of the day, and that's crucial. It is crucial, therefore, that we really save that we save where we do not destroy jobs, where we do not endanger the economy, where we do not endanger the purchasing power et cetera. Again on the morning discussion: Ladies and gentlemen, I really hope you do not come to the idea of defending tax-free incomes, speculation incomes. I always had the impression that we all agreed that IV-Chairmans should pay taxes on his speculation income as much as the employees in the enterprises, in which industrial firms pay taxes on their labour income. I hope that you will be able to do so in the framework of the tax reform. Let's take a look at the company value depreciation at group taxation! Please explain to me what a meaning this should have, except for the fact that the ladies and gentlemen in IV are still knocking on the thighs for joy today, that you have decided to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: If we discuss this subject matter, please, but not as a class struggle!]] If today Bank Austria would buy the credit institution, what has happened historically – that cost 17 billion schilling at the time – where does this lead? – This probably leads to fewer jobs, because synergies are achieved and less competition. [[Abg. Huber: A gift!]] It's clear: If you buy a competitor, there will probably be less competition and there will be fewer jobs as a result. If this were to happen today, do you know how high the tax subsidy would be? – 2 billion tax subsidies due to company depreciation! Explain to me what is worthy of tax promotion that there are fewer jobs and less competition! Explain You're me! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Let's do it right now!]] I don't understand. I am of the opinion that the company depreciation should delete, delete, delete, and thus save a lot of money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11521	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11542	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! I am now in Parliament for two years, and I fear that the President of the Court of Auditors will be taken up by our Minister of Finance. For two years now, constructive proposals have been made on how to deal with administrative reform and how to revitalize investment. The investment dropped by 9.3 percent, and this Minister of Finance, called “Vicekanzler Konrad”, does nothing at all. That's where we really have to stand together. The members of the ÖVP also have to end this standstill and once again give the Federal Government the task of truly making a policy for the population who deserved it, which is to take on reforms, through which there are also areas and funds back into the bag so that the economy can be revitalized, because up to the national level The total economic performance has declined. Although everything is well spoken of by both government parties, fact is that we are the seventh most indebted country in the EU 16. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Everything else you're talking about is just incredible. It is true that we have the financial and economic crisis. That's absolutely clear! As a result, exports fell by 15 percent, and GDP fell by 3.6 percentage points. Nevertheless, this massive collapse could only be survived as we survived it, because we have strong, innovative, diligent companies, and not because of a federal government that sleeps and blocks everything. I heard the speech of our Minister for Finance today. In 1980 we had 27 billion debts. Today we hold at €240 billion, because the ASFINAG and the ÖBB all forget. The Minister of Finance has forgotten to say who is responsible. Who's been in the government since 1980? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11590	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the federal accounts: It has not become a point landing, but if it ends up halfway, it will also fit, so you understand. Of course, you can differ in revenue and expenditure if it nevertheless fits from the sign. Then you can land somewhere where you can say “point. ” But it has certainly not been a belly spot, and this is not so important with the landing of points, because it has also been the year of crisis control. We've had other concerns anyway, you have to say that quite openly. If we are already dealing with state finances in this way, I would like to continue on a point which has already appeared in the debate today, namely on the liability. The Committee, in which we discussed the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany, has also made a good contribution to the fact that we also had to deal with the national debt report. This makes sense in the contemplation, because there are still tendencies to escape from the budget and the veiling representations become clear. In particular, the President of the Court of Auditors has often referred to these things. So that's how it fits together. Of course, there's already a danger in that. On the occasion of the emergency bank stateization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, we have found that the Federal State of Carinthia has accumulated €18 billion in liabilities by the bank activities alone and a total of €24 billion. It's mediocrely absurd. The business model has been impressive at all, as it has come to these 18 billion €. The bank emits, blows up a little, it holds the country. However, the country resumes credit from the bank. In the Middle Ages, they would have locked it up immediately as a changing rider. An impressive business model! One only asks how this could work in a state like in Austria, of which one wants to think that the system of checks and balances works halfway in it. At any time, neither the financial market supervision nor other mechanisms have taken effect. And now – and with that I am already at the moment – there is the praiseful attempt to intervene in the attempt of the federal government, which is indeed outstanding to praise. One thing is clear: It is at the end of the covenant, but not the country of Carinthia, because that is not yet the case in the Federal Republic of Germany. appropriate bankruptcy proceedings – one must also say – that one could send the federal states into bankruptcy. What happened? – Finally, all Austrian taxpayers are liable – and this is not particularly pleasing and fits in with this year of report 2009 that we are discussing here. In conclusion: Of course, it is also the question of how the local authorities cooperate with each other when we talk about where there is still potential for efficiency. Now, out of the heated debate from before: We must simply succeed in getting into a kind of cooperative strategy with the federal states, otherwise we will never get out of it. You have to do that, I say, unfortunately, because it doesn't help us to run around with the Dreschflegel. As long as the federal states themselves can speak, may and must have any change, of course, they will have to be in the boat. As we can achieve a reasonable exchange, it will be up to us to be able to debate federal accounts in a few years, where the previous budgetary policy has achieved the efficiency objectives we are now pursuing. So I'm not quite confident, but I'm sure more will have to happen. We will meet again at the Austrian talks just as we are sitting here, and maybe there will be something else. I'm just not confident. Let's see if that keeps what's going on in the Styria. There are also new purposes. Perhaps – if you say something positive – you can still succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11663	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11684	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentaryism lives on not only reading prepared statements, but also addressing statements from previous speakers. With the approval of the President, I can do so, even if Mr Krainer, my previous speaker, did not speak with his comments on group taxation on the federal accounts. But he asked me to explain this to him. I'd love to do that. However, I would suggest, because I do not like to discuss that openly, on the basis of theoretical, Marxist literature, but I prefer to discuss when people are standing on the front, so to speak. I offer from here my colleague, Mr Krainer – he is not here – a conversation with him stupidly/Krainer, in which a few friends of yours, Mr. Krainer, participate: former State Secretary Ruttenstorfer – he today bears responsibility for tens of thousands of jobs at the OMV – Gitti Ederer on the Board of Management of Siemens also has responsibility for tens of thousands of jobs, Dr. Androsch as former SPÖ Finance Minister and voestalpine Director Eder. [[Abg. Krainer: (from one of the back bank lines) Here I am!]] [[Abg. Krainer: But this is not an explanation!]] If they agree, we will have this conversation with these four people, and they will explain to you better than I can why group taxation is so important for our industry, which has only a small home market that has no chance if it does not go abroad if it does not operate internationalization. We will explain to you why group taxation is so necessary. Take Are you offering, Mr. Krainer? Or do you just want to discuss class fights? Tell me openly! I offer it to you. [[Abg. Krainer: I want you to explain this! If I want to talk to Androsch, I don't need you to!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - Okay, we'll figure this out later. For the Federal Accounting Office: Mr President, Mr Moser, thank you very much! I must say that we are very glad that the Federal Accounting Court is in the hands of the Court of Auditors. You can't do it more precisely and clearly. I thank you very much for asking the Committee to make the shortest possible version, because we Members are constantly being flooded with a flood of paper. We have received an excellent summary, from two pages to 16 pages. Great, thank you many times! You can't do that better. Again, my colleague Jakob Auershon said: Of course, this financial statements reflect the 2009 crisis year, but despite the crisis year, we spent €8 billion less on expenditure than was planned and €1.5 billion on revenue. That means the deficit was only €7 billion instead of €13.5 billion. This also shows the successful fight against crisis, the successful policy, and, of course, unemployment is at the forefront of all successes. We have the lowest unemployment rate of 27 EU countries. This is a serious, solid financial policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11781	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11802	Dear President! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! I'm sure the two colleagues will talk well now. In principle and very briefly only for the 2009 Federal Accounts: We have really got a great report, very clear, as already mentioned. In particular, this summary, which I have included here, shows essentially all the head data on two pages. It is recognized that in 2009, a very difficult political year, the Federal Government worked perfectly under these conditions. That's to be read from it. We have nevertheless kept above average growth rates in the field of education, research and the economy. In the field of social welfare, we have spent above average more money on labour market policies, and we have also increased expenditure in industry and industry and in public services. The Authority has reduced its costs by almost 40 percent. It can be seen from this difficult year that a very efficient and very professional economic and financial policy was pursued in that country. Of course, it is true that since 1996, we have for the first time had a negative primary balance, i.e. the operating revenue and expenditure of the budget were for the first time negative if we did not calculate the interest payments for our investment financing. This is, of course, a warning signal, and that is why there is also the current debate. I am convinced, however, that we have already defined a political way out in a few weeks and that we will return to a more financially calm phase. I would also like to thank Mr Kogler as an opposition politician for his very constructive contribution to this subject. He really described the situation in 2009 very objectively and very objectively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11841	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11863	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the 2009 Federal Accounting Court, where many of the proposals still meant that he would not have been perfectly sure that we should have left ourselves time, and it was all so terrible and far too early. Now that we can look back on an improvement in the economy and where we are likely to be much more effective with the budget than we were in 2009, we will also talk about it and be excited about it. When we return to 2009, it is already true that in 2009 we had to experience a significant fall in taxes and taxes, because not only did the 2009 tax reform bring this tax break, but, of course, the situation of the crisis. We have taken a lot of measures, and the government has responded precisely with economic packages, including the financing of short-term work. That's what we've heard today. I have heard a lot of news on the previous item on the agenda today, which was particularly class-fighting. I do not think so, we have nothing at all if we play out entrepreneurs against employees. On the contrary! The small entrepreneurs in this country, who have less than 20 or up to 20 employees, are at least 90 percent of the companies in Austria, are very likely to keep jobs in the crisis. I don't think there's anything to be done by the entrepreneurs against the workers. [[Abg. Riepl: It's about the super-rich, Mrs. Colleague!]] Nor is it right to speak of “justice ” if one cannot even address justice at different levels. For example, when implementing the pension reform, when we talk about the savings potential of the countries. It can't be that a mayor of Vienna says: I do not implement a pension reform because the government that has decided for the federal officials did not fit me at the time and still does not fit today! – It can't be! Countries have to make the same contribution, and countries have to save as much. [[Abg. Riepl: We just have different opinions!]] The following is to be held because I spoke about the taxes earlier: If we assume that we have to expect fewer taxes, because the economy simply cannot bring up the necessary tax performance, with improvements already occurring, I would like to stress once again: It must not be that in 2009 we have due residues of €5.6 billion. I know it's a flash-light shot on a balance sheet day, but at least only €800 million of it is inconceivable because companies have become insolvent, and the rest is actually due and driveable. I would like, Mr State Secretary, that effective measures be taken to ensure that these debts can be incurred. I'm not talking about companies that pay interest. That's all right. One can also pay one's tax debts, if one has them, in instalments. However, it cannot be assumed that the largest pieces in the residue of duties concern VAT – at least 56 percent – if we assume that every consumer and every consumer will immediately supply the VAT with every meat collection and with every consumer they buy to the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11916	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2009 Federal Accounting Accounting Account has given us a very clear view of the impact of the economic and financial crisis on Austria: the decline in real gross domestic product, the decline in exports and, above all, the collapse of investment. Unlike in other countries, however, we have managed in Austria to create framework conditions which have not allowed unemployment to rise to these dramatic heights and, above all, have maintained a slow growth in consumption. We should probably take this into account in the debate on future savings and revenue. The crisis has clearly shown that the social state has been and is an essential stability factor in our economy. Private consumption is a very important economic factor in an economic structure, as we have in Austria. It is not a question of playing businessmen and employees against each other. The question is to ask: Who can make a fair contribution to this budget, to that State? That's the question. We do not need to put artificially or deliberately ideological arguments in the foreground, because that is the question before which we cannot push ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, also from the ÖVP: In fact, savings and cuts in the social state are deeply affected by the middle class – the middle class, whether on the part of workers or entrepreneurs on the inside! The middle class – and I believe that we should all be of one opinion here in this House – is the shift in the population that carries our state, which contributes to our having prosperity and a standard of living, which today marks Austria. I therefore think that this should also be one of the basics of the discussion: not to accuse each other of ideological reasons, but to see what we can do so that Austria, so that the economy, so that the people of Austria in particular can live well, despite the crisis and above all after its overcoming. Of course, we will also need to discuss the administrative reform. It is hoped that there will be potential for efficiency. This is not a new discussion, as we all know each other. But I don't think we're going to get around a task discussion either, if we mean it honestly. I would also like to point out that, in my view, this has been too short to address the local authorities, which are particularly noticeable and clearly providing the services of the State in a transferable sense. I think that it is very important, therefore, to take into account on the part of the public, that the municipalities can carry out these services to a large extent. I therefore think that it is completely wrong if, in today's debate, the Members of this House, in particular, of the ÖVP, make a retreat fight on the part of the ÖVP. We have agreed on a formula here in the framework of the Financial Framework Act, and I I think we should confess to that. We should look at how, through a just revenue and expenditure policy, we can see the future of the people in Austria – and that is to say, all people, I do not want to be divided between young and old – to shape the future of all the people in Austria, so that Austria remains at the forefront, for the benefit of the people who live here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e11988	The next speaker was Mr Haubner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12010	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Yes, I think the Court of Auditors has done excellent work with the 2009 federal accounts. We are – and this is very encouraging – good at Austria in Europe. I think we can also be a little proud of the fact that we have survived the difficult time of 2009 better than some other countries in the European Community and that we are moving in the top line both in terms of economic policy and labour market figures. This is certainly a merit for entrepreneurs who have kept the employees in their business with a great deal of innovation and have written this success story together with the employees and, on the other hand, a merit of the right measures of the Federal Government – with business packages, labour market packages and, of course, the banking package – which has provided the solid basis for the fact that these services were also possible. Looking beyond borders, we see that we do not need to hide at all, but we can also be proud that together we have achieved such a great performance even in a difficult time like 2009. I would like to say to Mr Kogler in one respect: If we want to go into a secure future with a secure budget, go with one another, we need a clear strategy. Mr Kogler is right, we need a cooperative strategy between the Federal Government and the countries, because only then can we guarantee success in this respect. I think people have long recognized that downtime in a global competition means downhill. entrepreneurship and two million employees work together, especially in the business sector, and they experience day after day that only movement and innovation bring success. They also experience how close the bureaucratic corset and how expensive the social system has become. I believe that these people in the enterprises – whether entrepreneurs or employees – are not simply to be lured with tedious tax increases, but they are in the middle of life, and as in their businesses, they are certainly also putting up with reform in Austria. These reforms will be necessary so that we can continue to secure Austria's location. The Economic and Social Committee has also presented very clear concepts with its action “to counter it now”. I think: If we learn from the best, we look at Sweden's pension system, we can certainly implement it here with us! We must not risk that the location of Austria will soon no longer be among the best; we must make every effort to keep this top position.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12055	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12076	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In the 2009 financial statements, the facts are that we have spent less and taken less. But it would be too simple if we were to have this discussion simply with the figures, without also mentioning the reasons which led to these figures and to this billing. We had to digest the economic and financial crisis in 2009. We decided on the bank package. We have set up important labour policy measures for the people of Austria and we have bound up economic packages. We really must say that the government has done everything, especially for the people who have lost their jobs in the context of the crisis, for many people who have been concerned about how they are going on. The measures – whether they be through education, whether through training, or through short-time work – have shown that one can react properly and that one can above all respond socially. These measures were important, but it is now also time – and I would like to say a few words to the previous debate – to see how we consolidate the budget. It is not a class struggle – Mrs Tamandl, I have already missed the yellow cloth with you today, because I think you are still on the road in the Vienna election campaign – it is not about a class struggle, but it is about not breaking a taboo when discussing a financial transaction tax, about a bank tax, simply demanding such measures and giving people hope that they say: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] No, not the working people have to pay for the crisis! Why is work and not wealth taxed almost exclusively in Austria? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, this is a wrong situation, and it is not a taboo when we start to discuss it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not a taboo when we say that those who have also caused the crisis should pay for it. We should take advantage of this possibility. We should also try not to be divided. There are several measures, on the part of expenditure and on the part of revenue. We have already taken an important step in the right direction by means of the Financial Framework Act, which is what we have agreed on. I think that a discussion is quite allowed, that it is desirable and that we do not break a taboo here. Mr Wöginger, you are also at the union. That's why I'm here today, too. I have to say that your speech is a bit “caught”, if you do so as social spokesperson of the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Molterer: union does not mean FSG!]] That's where I want to know if you'll be swinging your speeches at the Red Cross. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12136	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12158	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to start by thanking you very much for honouring the new federal accounts of you has been. It has been reworked completely, it has also been made more easy to read. However, with regard to the debate and also with a view to drawing up the budget, I would like to address a few points which I think are particularly important. I am concerned with the fact that today's evidence shows that growth has attracted thanks to God again and that there is less need for consolidation at all, because it is precisely because the situation, as it is present, is not one that is founded on its own in 2009, but that we had structural problems before 2009, when there was no economic and financial crisis. I would point out, for example, that in 2006, we had a real growth of 3.6 percent, one of 3.7 percent in 2007. We had a growing labour market, we had an excellent current account balance, a partial economic growth of 3.5 percent. Despite this, we did not manage to close the gap between revenue and expenditure in 2006/2007. This means that even in the years when the economic indicators were very good, we had a deficit that indicates that we also have problems in the structure. It was therefore not wrong and was more than predictive of the fact that the then Minister of Finance already set measures for consolidation in 2007, although the total debt at that time was still below 60 percent, namely 59.28 percent of GDP. In the meantime we had a recession, we now had the financial and economic crisis. This has led to an increase of more than €20 billion in net financial debt from 2007 to 2009. We now have net financial debt of € 178 billion, we have a strong increase in total debt by 24 billion, to € 185.1 billion, as well as an increase in liability by 37 billion to € 124.5 billion. We also have the problem that we already had a negative primary balance in 2009. That is, with the deduction of interest, but also the reserves, we have already had to carry out the operational activities in 2009 with further borrowings. Now the question is: Is it enough for the federal government to carry out renovations alone, or do we not need partners in this area, namely countries, municipalities and social security companies, who are involved in ensuring the sustainability of our budget? I also refer to the 2009 figures in which a total deficit of €9.6 billion was recorded. For countries and municipalities, the figures already show a share of 2.5 billion in the general government deficit of €9.6 billion. In other words, in addition to the federal government, countries, municipalities and social security companies also have a problem to achieve their budget or tasks – which have been partly transferred in addition to them. And here I also refer to the development of ESA expenditure: From 2005 to 2009, expenditure in the federal sector increased by 8 percent, by 24.8 percent in the national sector, by 21.2 percent in the municipal sector and by 20.3 percent in the social security sector. If we now consider, taking into account revenue, how debt has developed, then it becomes apparent – in turn from 2005 to 2009 – that the federal sector had an increase of 16.2 percent, on the very high basis of 142 billion, so that the debt of the federal sector to 165 billion the € has increased. But it is also evident among the countries that the debt has increased by 63.4 percent from 2005 to 2009, ranging from 6.8 billion to 11.2 billion euros. And the communities too have been very strongly drawn, their debt has increased from €4.8 billion to €5.8 billion, and it should not be forgotten that this increase in debt would also take account of the debt of market-based companies, so that it would be possible to take into account or serve 7.9 billion again. That is to say, we need a consolidation partnership not only in the Federal Government, but also in the countries and the municipalities in particular, that we help the municipalities to put their budget in order in the medium term. In this context, it can be seen that we have to move ahead with consolidation. This is also confirmed by the ECOFIN, which presented this in its opinion on the Austrian Stability Programme for the years 2009 to 2013. The ECOFIN expressed its support for developing the accounting system towards transparency and accountability, and also called for measures to harmonise administrative, financial and legal responsibilities and also for a medium-term, sustainable view of the budget. I would like to point out that the new economic outlook – as a result of the WIFO data – has not changed this situation. As a result, in 2010, the deficit fell from 4.7 percent to 4.1 percent and in 2011 from 4 percent to 3.5 percent, taking into account the fact that in 2011, a consolidation of at least 3.4 billion at federal level and of 0.8 billion euros at national level would be possible. This means that even with these assumptions, we are still far from the target value of the 3 percent, and we also have the problem, if we look at total debt, that this improved economy actually only leads to a calculation improvement, because overall debt will continue to rise in the next few years and will already be 12 percent above the 60 percent limit in 2013. This means, as the financial framework shows, that we will have to take measures to ensure the sustainable consideration of the budget and to finance or cover expenditure that is not past – speak of cash and interest – but to be able to actually serve education and research accordingly. In this area, however, it would also be necessary, in particular, to improve the situation in Austria, with a view to orderly budgets and a balance of economies as a whole, to ensure that measures are taken in the accounting sector. The Federal Government has already taken steps with the first and second stages of the 2013 budgetary reform. However, we still have the problem that transparency is not given as a general rule, because the data situation, the terms and the definition criteria are different. We have the problem that the real financial situation of individual local authorities is not currently on the table and therefore is only possible through difficult reflections. It is therefore necessary to include a statement of results, including the disbursed entities, and it would be necessary to achieve a completeness of the accounting system by identifying leasing financing, special financing and housing support as well as other obligations. Therefore, if you look at the federal accounts, you can say under the line: Reforms are needed, not only in the case of a local body. In the case of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany. No one is to be expected if we want to secure and guarantee future capacity in the area of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12242	Mr Lopatka spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12263	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I am very grateful to you for the clear words that, because we have a general obligation, we also need general government efforts if we want to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves and not come to terms with what we are now seeing through television, for example, when I think about France. That is why we are now called upon to do something in order not to have to take action a few years later, which will lead to a corresponding protest. What do I mean by that? – We have come through this 2009 year of crisis. I don't want to repeat anything that has been said by you, but I still remember: We were able to give a lot of incentives that consumption has not broken in with us. The Christmas business was the best ever in 2009, and winter tourism achieved new record numbers. We also did not have the major losses on the revenue tax side. We have the best situation in Europe in the labour market with unemployment which can be seen below 4 percent. When I think of Spain: Spain is 20 percent – to make only one comparison. What I said now was positive. Nevertheless, we have a massive problem, because what we have actually done has, of course, torn a big hole into our state finances. This hole must not grow bigger! That is why we now have to consolidate, because the measures we have put in the crisis have had this high price, and the high price is: Consolidation is now underway. Compare 2008 with 2009, I only call one number: In 2008, we also had a deficit, although we should not have had anything in this economic situation. We had €1.2 billion in deficit in 2008. In 2009 it was €9.5 billion, i.e. € 8.3 billion more. Now I don't want to say we've lived on our conditions, but fact is: We have worsened by € 8.3 billion within a year. That must not go on, because that would be the worst disaster! We need to get back in the other direction, together. What do I mean by “jointly ”? - We can't do it alone. The President of the Court of Auditors has made it very clear: Yes, we have a bad dynamic, but the dynamics of the federal states is far, far worse, and also that of the municipalities. In the negotiations we have already held with the countries, it is clear to the country representatives that they want to have their third on the revenue side, if we raise taxes here. It was less clear to me what came from the expenditure side of the countries. But we also need this contribution, because we are in intensive negotiations with our ministers in order to make their contribution on the part of expenditure; but if the ministries only make a contribution on the part of the expenditure side and if they do not make clear, comprehensible contributions on the part of the countries, then it will be difficult. We had a stability pact that we too could not comply with. We still have him – de facto he has become obsolete. We need a new Stability Pact. It must be better than the last. What I mean by that – Carinthia has already been addressed –: We also need to have liability limits in the Stability Pact on the part of the countries. We also need to reach limits on expenditure which we set by law on the part of the Federal Government. We also need a better sanctions mechanism, because it cannot be the case that the federal states, which are very well-priced, and those who make the opposite, are so far apart. There are such federal states that, when we look at the objectives of the Stability Pact, we see that – in most years, others almost every year, these goals have been achieved. There are federal states that have managed better – I say so as representatives of the federal government – than the federal government has done. But we also have federal states that do the exact opposite of that, and we must be careful that we do not see if within the state individual member states are so far apart – for we have a general government result to achieve. That is why I say to you: I believe it is very important that this billing is available in this form, in addition to what the national debt committee here has presented to us, in order to provide the basis for us to comply with our federal financial framework as a whole in the negotiations with the countries, with the municipalities. The federal government has a very, very important task and function, but the federal government alone is too little. We also need, in the case of budgetary legislation, clear progress in the exchange of information on what we have so far, and I therefore say here in this debate on the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany: Yes, the year 2009 was a difficult one. At the end of the day, we were able to achieve exactly what was predicted, the 3.4 percent, but now we are required to go back in the other direction from 2010, namely not to build up the deficits, but to reduce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12328	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Eßl is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12349	Mr President. High house! I have the right to follow up my speech where my previous speaker, Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher, has stopped, and I say that it is, of course, right to criticise if one does not like a colleague's speech, but if you are criticising Mr Wöginger's speech, I ask you: Have you not heard the speeches of Mr. Katzian and Mr. Krainer? – because I think the criticism should be directed in this direction. Gustl Wöginger stands for a reasonable and constructive relationship, and he addresses the truth – you can be sure – not only here in Parliament, but also outside when he is a trade unionist with his people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Why doesn't he say it?- Oh, my God!]] The 2009 federal accounts account has figures that are not exactly in line with what was in the proposal. Both expenditure and revenue are less than estimated, and the result, from my point of view, is a reasonable one at a difficult time, because after the 2008 financial and economic crisis already suffered, the year 2009 did so. The expenditure is €8 billion lower than the estimated amount, the revenue is €1.5 billion lower than the estimated amount, and for me it is also important to compare it with the previous year, and there is expenditure by €5 billion lower than in 2008 and revenue by €2.5 billion lower than in 2008. This makes up just over €7 billion for the end of the federal government, €6.5 billion for the deficit and €2.48 billion for the last year. Of course, worth mentioning is the 35.4 percent reduction in corporate tax revenue, but also the €1.4 billion reduction in wage tax revenue, with tax reform already taking place, where a relief for the tax-paying population has been created. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... was that!]] The package of measures has worked, the tax reform has worked, and the development of nominal gross domestic product also shows this – for example, that private consumption has increased and that public consumption has also increased. A major detail that I would like to point out is that the new budgetary law has also worked accordingly. We can remember that it was more often so that the Ministries still had to spend in December, as the funds could not be transferred to the next year. This is possible with the new budgetary law, and it has resulted in a more efficient use of funds – and that is a good thing. In total, the financial statements are better than expected, better than in the proposal, but we must work hard to consolidate the financial situation, and there is still a need for action for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12407	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 908 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:07:30]] 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (808, e.g._Other Organiser German law on the cross-border merger of Neusiedler Seebahn GmbH as acquiring company with the NSB Bahn Fertövidéki Helyi Érdekü Vasút Korlátolt Felleösségü Társaság (NSB Bahn Neusiedler Seebahn Gesellschaft with limited liability) as a transferable company and on the introduction of the shares rights in the Fertövideki Helyi Erdkü Vasut Zarkuruen Mukodo Reszvenytarsasag (Neusiedler Seebahn Aktiengesellschaft) to the Neusiedler Seebahn GmbH (NSB-G) (909 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12462	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First Vice-President: Dr Maier. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12491	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This business, which provides for the conversion and transfer of assets of the Neusiedler Seebahn into the Austrian legal and property sphere, is okay, and there is nothing against it in itself. On the contrary: We think this is a very important step in the sense of more railway diversity in Austria; we have so far missed such a policy from the Ministry of Transport. We also believe that it makes sense to strengthen Hungarian cooperation. In this context, however, I would like to make an amendment tabled by the honourable Members: The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: ‘In accordance with the title of the Federal Act, the following sentence shall be inserted: ‘The National Council has decided:’. This is the form still mentioned. Unfortunately, we miss God's view of the way I just praised the example of the Neusiedler Bahn. Let this happen. For a moment, I would like to say the following: In 2005, there was a decision to extend the route along the Austrian-Hungarian border. In 2008 an EU funding was requested, which actually came. 85 percent are supported, the Austrian share is €16.5 million. This is confirmed both by the budget of the Federal Minister of Finance and by the Ministry of Finance, the funding is on track, but unfortunately God now prevents the Federal Ministry of Infrastructure and Technology from disbursement, although the construction measures have already begun. Now the society, the Raber Bahn, is in the situation that, first, the EU's funding is lost, second, that the previous funding must be paid back and, secondly, that compensation or compensation should be made. Some are even talking about the risk of insolvency – and this should actually give the Minister of the State the opportunity to think about when to release these funds. Now, I think, of course, it could be that it is building up a negotiating position with Hungary, because we still have another construction site, the Rail Cargo Hungary, where there is a contract that was concluded in 2007 by the Poschalko Executive Board at that time – a very bad contract for the ÖBB, which is still suffering from it now, and we will probably also discuss socially damaging conclusions from this title. In any event, it would be necessary for the Federal Minister of State to ask and invite the Hungarian Minister of Infrastructure to negotiate in both cases a solution which, both for Raber Bahn and for Rail Cargo Hungary, provides an approach to get out of the rather difficult situations. This is in the sense a call for the Minister to open negotiations with her Hungarian counterparts.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12555	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12598	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12619	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Maier, I cannot answer that now, but I am sure that I know our Federal Minister Bures that she knows exactly what it is all about on these issues that you are addressing, and that you are also concerned that nothing is wrong. So I'm sure of that. [[Call to the ÖVP:... was 2007 Transport Minister!]] I would also like to say a few words about the Neusiedler Seebahn, because you mentioned this very briefly. I have been looking at the Committee's preparatory work, which is why we need to change it. It is true that the Neusiedler Seebahn is a railway that actually comes from the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and leads from Celldömölk to Neusiedl am See. Because of this Hungarian period, the legal form of the railway is still represented as a stock company in accordance with Hungarian law. That is, if something has to be done on the Austrian side on the rail – 90 percent are on the Austrian side, around 10 percent are on the Hungarian side – then all this has to be done in accordance with the complex Hungarian stock law, and that is a huge effort. The aim of this government template today is simply to design the company of Neusiedler Seebahn in such a way that the 90 percent of Austrian operating assets are managed as Austrian company and the 10 percent as a Hungarian subsidiary are so to speak merged into Austrian society. This also aims to ensure that, if the Hungarian State does not operate the route network in the sense of renewal or order for services, this route does not have to be closed in principle, it can also continue to operate in the Austrian sector and that the Austrian State – due to the costs incurred on the Hungarian side – does not incur any costs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12653	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12674	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Of course, we agree with this government proposal. We also support the amendment, which concerns regional railways, tourist aspects, mobility forms for the people living there. However, in this decision, we do not want to see an advance on the possible decommissioning of the Burgenland part of the Neusiedler Seebahn and, above all, for tourism and environmental reasons, we also want to have Austria's side of Hungary – and therefore the negotiations of the ministers at the highest level – to insist that no sub-route is closed. Unfortunately, during the last weeks and months of Austria, we have seen a massive advance in silence in Lower Austria. There is a pact between the Federal Government, the Ministry, ÖBB and the State of Lower Austria, it flowed federal money to Lower Austria, and what is being done? – The state of Lower Austria simply stops numerous so-called regional railways or secondary railways, removes them without replacement, allows buses to ride instead, but unfortunately in reduced quality. [[Abg. Wheelers: Examples! That's not true!]] Yes, just you can talk! You can talk! They are the true steam plauder of the Lower Austrian Government, Mr. Cot. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They have said such a mutilation about speculating the Lower Austrian housing loans – and now you are reporting large again, where it is about discovering and showing how strongly the country of Lower Austria intends to downturn regional transport. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Hoerl: Stay cool!]] Now get back in! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Buses are to drive instead of railways, trains are shut down, the millions – the millions! – enters Lower Austria, which Bures has still paid for infrastructure maintenance. It's the head of state. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Where does that lead? I don't know. You'll be Your federal state, covering the oil companies, the oil checks and Putins, will deliver, because only more with oil and car will be accessible to your regions if you remove the rail. You want to build cycle paths on the track, only: Bringing the money for it You're not even up! [[Abg. Rädler: Which railway, please say that!]] That is why I think it is essential – and I should like to say this, especially if the Secretary of State, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, is sitting here – that the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State will finally put the country of Lower Austria in shackles, which is this disassembly... [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: How do you want to do this?]] This is a question of marathon runners, Mr State Secretary – so that regional transport in Lower Austria does not break in the way it threatens to break in. But we have the positive example of the federal government and also of the Burgenland, which the Neusiedler Seebahn reaches, and I would like to stress once again: a strip of light on the horizon! – but in Lower Austria, not only does the lunar eclipse threaten us, but the solar eclipse in regional traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12803	The next item is the speech by Mr Huber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12825	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We too will agree to this re-establishment, which is necessary. Well, the time has already expired, because the company was already on the 29th. ==References== 110 years this year, the operating assets are 90 percent in Austria, 10 percent in Hungary. Nevertheless, today it is a society under Hungarian law, that is, if sometime it comes to insolvency, the entire operating assets would go back to the Hungarian state. Of course, we do not want to do that, and that is why we will, of course, agree to this change at the Neusiedler Seebahn. The train is electrified, runs over 38 kilometres through Austria, through Burgenland, 10 kilometres are in Hungary. Of course, there will be a need for massive investment in the coming years, and we will ensure that these conservation, renewal and expansion activities will naturally be carried out by Austrian companies. In any case, we will control that, and that is why we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12855	Mr Donnerbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12879	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Moser has just claimed that the Dutch head of state would have taken hundreds of millions of euros and did nothing for regional transport. I'm actually correcting: In recent years, the supply has been constantly reduced by not millions, but by ÖBB and Postbus, and the country of Lower Austria has succeeded in maintaining a functioning regional transport system together with the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12920	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Hechtl. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12941	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! This law will truly create the legal conditions for the change of the existing Neusiedler Seebahn Aktiengesellschaft to a Neusiedler Seebahn GmbH Austria and for the creation of a wholly owned subsidiary. As mentioned above, this re-establishment has also become necessary so that, if the Hungarian part of the route were to be closed, the entire assets of this AG would not fall within the Hungarian state. This re-establishment ensures that it remains so important for tourism and continues to be available to tourism, the whole region as a whole. With the protection of the railway track, positive impulses are set in this region. In this way important jobs in tourism and its secondary areas can be maintained. However, this law also ensures that the entire section of the route, which has already been mentioned, is 90 percent on Austrian territory and only 10 percent on Hungarian territory, is now transferred to the sole property of the Republic of Austria and can thus be exerted a 100% influence from Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this unanimous decision – for the time being in the committee and, if it is to come to a unanimous decision here in Parliament, here too – is an important sign in order to ensure that this line of train can be maintained. This also sets an important sign for the secondary lanes. I would also like to see such unanimity and attitude as here in Parliament in Lower Austria. I have heard that there was no such agreement for two routes, namely for the Donauuferbahn and the secondary railway from Ober-Grafendorf to Mank. I would also like such an agreement on the part of the State of Lower Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e12984	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 808 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, have tabled an additional proposal on the inclusion of the promulgation clause. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, in the version of the Government template, taking account of the supplementary request made by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President of the Council. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval – that is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would also like to vote in third reading of this bill to be a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:23:10]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 1273/A(E) by Mr Alois Graluid, colleagues, on the introduction of a structural debt brake (910 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13048	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13075	High house! The question is: What can we do in view of this huge debt mountain that we need to take note of? What can be done to get hold of the debt mountain? It is best to look around abroad, in this case in Switzerland, and notice that some time ago Switzerland introduced a debt brake. ==References== In December 2001, the debt brake in Switzerland has come into the constitutional ranks by referendum, with the rule that revenue and expenditure should be kept in balance over the economic cycle. This debt brake has been in force since 2003. It is worth looking at how the Swiss have been doing so far. By the year 2003, similar developments had been observed as they occurred with us. There were numerous attempts to reduce and limit public debt. But the actual development could not be prevented, because in the vote, the majority voted against it over and over again. As of 2003, this debt brake will take effect, according to Article 126 of the Swiss Federal Constitution. The purpose of this debt brake is to control federal expenditure. That is, expenditure is based on the federal income. Only in the event of disasters or other serious decisions can one make exceptions. Since the introduction of this debt brake, the debt level has stabilised in Switzerland, and the debt ratio has declined. In the 2009 crisis year, Switzerland even had a surplus in the budget. I can remember: Switzerland's government debt is 45 percent of GDP. We in Austria, on the other hand, have a state debt of 70 percent – rising trend! That something has to happen is probably obvious. That's what Mr Androsch sees. He said in a newspaper interview: “We need an intelligent debt brake over the economic cycle, as Switzerland introduced in 2001.” And see: The Germans have also looked at Switzerland's debt brakes and in 2016 have made a similar debt brake binding. So this development cannot be that wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the Committee has rejected this legislative initiative of the Freemans, but I hope that perhaps today one will see things differently and, at least in the negotiations in the household sector, come back to this debt brake, as it would calm down the debt in the medium term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13136	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13157	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As I said in the Financial Committee, I really have a lot of sympathy for this request. This is because there is no way to get past a debt brake – this is what we heard many times this morning in the principle discussion after the Minister of Finance's speech – and also due to the experience in the years 2000 to 2007. – I constantly mention this time again and again, because the objective is a balanced government budget over the economic cycle. Therefore my full sympathy for this request. Why have we still rejected this in the Financial Committee and rejected it again today? Mr Grazauer, because we already have this debt brake, in a better form. They all voted in favour of the vote on the Federal Financial Framework Act, which was really a breakthrough. Why it's better, I can also explain briefly: There are two options for the debt brake: Either way, I do this on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. We have said that we want to consciously only have the cover on the expenditure page, and I think that is in itself a better model. By the way, we are very obliged to thank Mr Steger, who was, so to speak, the engine of this whole law. The work has already begun under the finance minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, who is not highly appreciated today, and was then continued by Minister of Finance Molterer. There was Mr. Steger's head of section the continuity, we had intergroup meetings, informal nature and, and, So it was really a breakthrough that we did. There is no coincidence that there are three best-practice models among the 27 EU countries today, namely Austria, Sweden and the Netherlands. And if, apart from the current hectic time of budget consultation, the head of section Steger is always invited abroad to explain our system – a few months ago he was even in Mexico – then we see the importance of this new budget right. It is considered best practice for other countries, as an example of how to do it. That is the only reason, Mr Grastaur, why we reject this request. We fully agree with the content, with the objective. I am also very glad, I say quite frankly that at the time we introduced this Federal Financial Framework Act, with all the parties, that was a five-party proposal, very good, professional, prepared for years. That is why, Pardon, this request is actually obsolete, through the Federal Financial Framework Act, which we have already agreed together here. Finally, however, I would like to do what my colleague Jakob Auer has done for the Budget Committee. I have already said so in the Financial Committee. Mr Lutz Weinzinger, I know you don't like it, but still here in plenary I say: Thank you for your cooperation! Thank you for several years really human friendly, objectively constructive cooperation! I'm saying the same thing as Jakob AuerYou're going to leave us. Good for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13211	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13233	Mr President. High house! We're talking about a debt brake today. Why do we need this debt brake? Mr Stumpfully said that he was in conformity with the content, but there was a lack of flexibility here to control the budget over the economic cycle. I am already wondering what to say about the statements of the Minister of Finance and also about your statements, Mr President-in-Office, if you are always saying that the debt is so terrible that they need to be reduced, and so on. We have to keep two things apart, because we are talking about BZÖ not making new debts. We're not talking about reducing the debt. They want to reduce the debt. On the other hand, we say: First step: do not make new debts. And that's what this debt brake is about to do. The debt brake should prevent the state from making new debts. It's because he doesn't make any debts in bad times and in good times. About This is the first time we've got a lot of That is why, Mr stupidly, how do you want to reduce debts if the State does not produce surpluses?- Oh, my God! That is, in bad times, we need to look to achieve a zero deficit as far as possible, precisely with this debt brake, and in good times we have to generate surpluses to ultimately account for the debt at some point. That is why this debt brake is absolutely necessary. If you look into Switzerland, you know why this is necessary. We had a delegation from the Swiss Financial Committee a few weeks ago. I asked a Swiss colleague how they succeeded in rehabilitating the budget without new taxes. The Swiss are no wonder. The answer was something we can use well for ourselves from my point of view: In Switzerland, you don't bring new taxes together because you need a popular decision – and you just can't get it. In other words, in Switzerland we knew from the beginning: New taxes just don't go, so you have to act accordingly on the other side. – That is exactly what I would like for us, namely the pressure of the Factic. If we exclude new taxes, then substantially something must finally happen in this area, namely in the municipalities, in the countries, in the health sector and so on. That's what it's all about. That is to say, we should take an example of the Swiss and decide here for ourselves: No new taxes! Then you'd see how much creativity there is on the issue page and what to get. There are almost litanys of expertise on where to save anywhere; I don't have to repeat this here. Between € 7 million and € 11 billion – depending on the expert – are simply around; this savings potential is not used. That's why: Fingers away from new taxes and the establishment of a debt brake that forces us to save where it makes sense – and not get the people into the bag again!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13318	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13339	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a milkmaid bill, Mr Lugar, because if you do not make a surplus, you will not be able to reduce debts. I think we agree. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, it can be that...!]] - You need a surplus anyway! Mr Grastaur, you are starting the request with the reference to the financial crisis and the burden on state finances for years to come. - You're perfectly right. We all know that what has begun a financial crisis has been going through the real economy and at the end of the crisis, because economic packages have been decided, the crisis of state finances. And on the subject of budget consolidation: We agree on the need to consolidate. It is clear why Switzerland has introduced this debt brake: Income-based measures require a national decision; expenditure-based measures are adopted by a simple majority in Parliament. And that's why Switzerland decided on this debt brake. What the Federal Government or we have decided here in the House was good and right, and Austria has been through the economic crisis very well. In addition, there was no alternative. A debt brake would not have taken us any further in the sense of combating the crisis. We agree on this too. Consolidation, in order to ensure the ability of the State to deal with future crises – and you rightly note this too, Mr Grastaur, – must be implemented consistently and properly. And there is this mix on which the Federal Government has agreed: 40 percent revenue on the one hand, 60 percent on the other side of the expenditure. However, I am not entirely of the opinion of the Minister of Finance, if he believes that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic misestimates something that is not about the question of social justice, but therefore about bringing Austria back to the ground. I mean, if we want to make the budget sustainable, then social balance, social justice, is a condition for sine qua non; without social justice, it will not be possible. As the tax rate is repeatedly addressed here: In the debate on the new budgetary law, you called it the 6th. Denmark, Sweden and Finland, for example. Sweden has a tax rate of 47.1 percent, Finland of 43.2 percent and Denmark of 48.2 percent. These are the states that are budgeting positively. However, I believe that the percentage of the tax quota alone does not say much. Rather, it is about what is done with the money. That's, like I mean, much more important. Debt brake is not a new idea; we have already heard of the examples Switzerland and Germany. But if we need to increase revenue, we must also consider the structure of taxation. Looking at capital taxation across the EU, you can see: This is 26 percent, while the tax on work is 34 percent. – That should also give us some thought. Moreover, a debt brake is not the cure. This also shows the debt figures of the countries that have already used such a debt brake. This is only about a ceiling – and not about a long-term budget quality. This is also criticised by the Swiss model. We in Austria have the better system, and federal budgetary law – this was unanimously adopted on 6 June. Decided December 2007 – was not an Nikolaus gift, but a necessary measure. I think it is high time the federal states decided to adopt this budgetary law. That is why we will not agree to your request – and I am very stupid with my colleague – because we do not opt for the second best, but for the best alternative, and that is our budgetary right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13398	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only for the Enlightenment, or for the Stenographical Protocol, so that the impression does not arise that the Members are talking about completely different things here and do not even notice: It is constantly trying to make our colleague Grazauer aware that this is almost the same, but something better than the other. I am voting in favour Mr Grastaur did not agree to this, so we will be voting in favour of the Committee's report. However, it must be left to my colleague Grazauer to state that this is something else. So what's the difference? – A debt brake, as this colleague Grazauer suggests in his application, at 0.35 per cent – is in itself wringed, how big, but in this case so large – is, as it were, the lid that arises. This is relative, as measured by the other budget figures, but it is then fixed, while the four-year financial perspective is ultimately under the responsibility of the National Council – that is a decision here – usually due to a proposal from the Federal Government. And, of course, there can be quite different spending limits, which produce quite different new debt: once, a little, once much; at least this is possible. With Grastaur's proposal, this would not be possible – and that is a huge difference. We can't make ourselves here, and we can still prove through the Stenographical Protocol that we don't even understand what we're talking about. It can't be! In any case, I am telling you that this debt brake is not so hot from my point of view and from our point of view. That looks better than it actually is. That would be good for the federal states, good for the municipalities – there is something similar, almost on a zero line – but it is not that good for federal policy because in such a case we would be deprived of an economic policy instrument. Just think of the years 2008, 2009, at least also 2010: full impact of the financial crisis on the real economy. It is good to be able to counter fiscally. This would not be a good idea for a maximum of 0.35 percent, because in order to be able to counter-tax, expenditure must probably rise. And if you took the same over new taxes again, so that it really is there, you would also produce damping effects on the economy. And, of course, that's not desirable. Now it could be said that there can be exceptions to the debt brake – that is true, as far as I know, in the German constitution – but then you get back to the softening anyway. Then it will be reinterpreted politically. But I recognise the concern, and I would, above all, transfer it to the federal states, because there is indeed the situation in such a way that they do not want to be responsible for the revenue – or have to. There is actually the possibility for the Federation – for us – by putting a lid on it, because then we can at least be sure that what we write in the Inner Austrian Stability Pact is at least secured there – if we had such a thing. You can discuss this. At the end of the day, however, as discussed in the morning, it will depend on how effective federal policy is towards the countries in order to raise the potential there. In any case, it will need negotiation skills, and then it doesn't matter if it's in a stability pact or if there's such a fixed capping instrument. It will be important that the League finally appears closed and courageous.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13474	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13495	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! As I said on the subject of budgetary law, on the subject of federal accounts, Austria has better come through the crisis than other countries in Europe. I also think that this new budgetary law – and thus the introduction of these spending ceilings – has been a good and right signal and has proved itself particularly successful. We have already seen in 2009 that these spending limits have led to a reduction in expenditure of € 1 billion, an instrument that has proved to be the best, which does not need a new, additional instrument in itself. Mr Grastaur, you have carried this out in a very detailed manner in the Committee. The argument is certainly also coherent and comprehensible in this relationship, but I think that we will find the outcome with what we have decided unanimously here in Austria and here in Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned that we are once again leaders in the European Community and that Austria is one of the three countries that have already implemented this modern budgetary law. If the deserved section chief Steger travels to Mexico to present this system, and that also finds its rainfall there, that is, I think, proof that we have a modern system that is proven best. I think you should leave it that way. However, I am also with Mr Kogler – and I have already said this before – that we need to cooperate here with the federal states. It will be art that we, together with the federal government and countries, will solve this budgetary challenge. For this I wish the Federal Government and all of us good luck, because I believe we have found a right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13537	The last speaker on this item is Mr Matznetter. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13559	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We have already had a thorough opportunity in the Committee to deal with this. I would like to highlight one more aspect because it also touches us in the European debate. Why is our regulation, which we have in budgetary law, more intelligent than a rigid rule? The problem starts when the problems begin. Today we have a situation in Europe where we have a rigid deficit limit, namely, 3%. We would not have any problem at all – not with Greece, not with Portugal, not with Italy, not with Ireland, with nothing at all – would all adhere to the Stability Pact. However, if one has a rigid border, where the mechanisms are missing for dealing with an exceptional situation, the discipline decreases more than if one considers flood protection for these cases. Here is our form with a four-year framework legislation, with a constitutional arrangement – that is what we have – that we finally have a balanced result over the economic cycle, the more flexible and better form. Why? - Because it's taken more seriously. Let us look at the inner Austrian Stability Pact! We have written in this optimistically before the crisis that the federal states must not make debts at all. – Makulatur within a short time. But once the reputation has been ruined, it lives completely unfavorable. Today, we have a great deal of effort to get our federal states to deliver at least 0.6 percent – to deficit, please, not to surplus. That is, we see that rigid rules are worse than those that take precautions from the outset. Therefore, once again my advertising – you have all contributed to all of today’s Op position parties, as well as we, who were in opposition at the time, then in government responsibility –: We've done this together. We have created a good system. We've been driving it very well now. Let's stay with this, and let's not copy everything from Switzerland! A last supplement to Switzerland. If we had not been able to finance a situation such as Switzerland, in which we could not finance a bank package – which would have been necessary to a value of 150 billion US dollars for two banks – or have the chance to take federal taxes to repay it, and if we were to force the neighbor – in this case the US, because the banks were working there – that the tax payer would have to jump in, then I do not need to take this as an advertising example. Switzerland would not have been able to support its banks in accordance with its constitution. That's what the Americans did. We have taken responsibility for our banks ourselves, and we have helped neighbours similar to the American ones. I think of a bank – I look back on the blue side because the members of the split FPK sit there: [[call to the FPÖ]] The Hypo Alpe-Adria! We have actually helped not only Carinthia, but also Croatia. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen, and we're going to clean up everything, and we're going to clean up this part too. [[Abg. Jury: Hypo Niederösterreich!]] Carinthia is a part of Austria, and we like to do it, but not then proudly telling others how to do better! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13616	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 910 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:47:37]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (879, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on Special Provisions in connection with the Increase in the Basic Capital of VERBUND AG (911 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (888, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the Efficacy of Settlements in Payment and Securities Supplier and Settlement Systems (Finality Act 2010) (912 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13669	We come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Brunner. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13698	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. This item on the agenda is about, among other things, the capital increase for the compound – a capital increase that may be well justified from the company’s point of view, or which brings quite benefits to the company. But I think our task here is to look at that from an energy policy point of view, and if I look at energy policy, I see inconceivableness and visionlessness. It is now over a year since the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Economic Affairs began to draw up the Energy Strategy for Austria. This energy strategy has not yet been announced to us in this House. No one knows where energy policy is going in Austria, what measures are to be taken, how these measures are to be financed, how these measures at last help us to manage our catastrophic climate balance. This is all completely nebulos, and now at once the state is bringing € 510 million out of the bag to give it to the bond – for a single energy form. [[Call to the FPÖ: It pays off! It pays off!]] This surprises me, because in the case of an energy strategy, there is no idea how this is financed. When it comes to one step to a state company, then there are 510 million € fast. If there's always talk of saving, and there's over 500 million euros on the fast, then you're wondering. The money goes only in large hydropower plants where, from the point of view of nature conservation, there are extreme concerns about NGOs. These are huge power plants to be installed in Natura 2000 areas, and in our view there is a clear no. It's not about making the hydropower bad. Hydropower has an important inventory in Austria and will continue to play an important role, but the unilateral expansion of hydropower will certainly not take us out of the energy policy and climate disaster. Individual small hydropower plants: yes, renewable energy: absolutely. We need more renewable energy, we need the eco electricity law, which is again for negotiation or renewal, and it is about finding a mix here across all the energy sources. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein:... what the Germans pay?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I know the German figures very well, I also know the discussion in Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein:... billion €!]] - Please? [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein:... billion €!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr. – former Minister of Energy – Bartenstein, I know the discussion there very well. I also know the state of the eco electricity law in Germany, a law that you have prevented from doing with us. They have also caused the Ökostrom-Stilstand in Austria. I find this intolerable. Austria has such good conditions as renewable energy, better than any other country in Europe. We have better companies than any other country in Europe, therefore better conditions and opportunities also for young people and young people in Austria to work in these future areas. That's what you're blocking, and I don't understand why. I would suggest that we finally make a courageous energy policy, put it on renewable energy supply, including decentralised energy supply, and therefore give the money not only in corporations, but in fact with incentives that each individual and everyone in Austria can independently shape their energy supply and is not dependent on expensive gas imports, which make up 14 billion € per year in the rest of the world. With this money, we could significantly continue to drive renewable energy policy in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will therefore not agree to this capital increase. However, we will make massive efforts to end the Ökostrom blockade in Austria, we will experience an expansion of renewable energy sources, therefore we will also create real green jobs and not only be posterated. This requires an independent, committed and independent Ministry of the Environment in Austria – and I am still of this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13796	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13817	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too believe that it is of course very important to look at the energy policy side. I will therefore show that we can put a lot in motion with the capital increase in this respect. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... Sparkasse!]] But it is undoubtedly only one aspect. That's a lot more, Mrs. Colleague. I know that the greens always show a very one-sided view of energy issues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] The first thing is that with this capital increase – which is why I am very, very happy that we can decide today – we can strengthen growth, employment and investment in Austria. This is a crucial aspect, and I will try to keep this in mind: [[New call for tender May. Brunner]] If we now decide to raise the capital of €500 million, then the joint venture can: More investment of at least €2.5 billion due to the leverage effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] And with this €2.5 billion, Mrs Colleague, even though it is uncomfortable for you to hear that – like many others in your group – we can subsequently trigger economic effects of €5 billion, but above all create around 37,000 jobs. 37,000 jobs! [[Other calls of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] If the IWI study, which you hope will be known to you, even if you always ignore it, is right – and I assume so – then there will be a further 1.5 jobs in the supply and service industry with each of the interconnected workplaces. That is to say, in reality, we are creating 92,000 new jobs – and this in a situation in which we in Austria have to make job questions one of the central issues. That is why I recognize the need for capital increase, even if it is not in your mind, Mrs Brunner. Secondly, of course, we are safeguarding the supply of energy as such. However, we will need sufficient energy to meet the reasonable costs – you know – if we want to restore economic growth and thus create employment. I also point out to you now that the capital increase and the investment that will be made possible – additional €2.5 billion – will increase the share of renewable energy and make a significant contribution to environmental modernisation. I now list only three projects: Donaukraft Altenwörth – water, renewable energy – a railway mouth – a power plant, water, renewable energy – and the revitalisation of Pernegg – renewable energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] I don't understand what's supposed to be bad about that. The average Austrian and the average Austrian find this very good. That is what we can do with the increase in capital, and I would therefore ask you once more to consider a more comprehensive approach instead of focusing on your subject over and over again and in fact developing a kind of tunnel look, Mrs Colleague. This is also an appeal to the Greens at all. I would like to make one last comment. This is addressed to our government partners. If we confess to public ownership of supply companies – or to a majority in public ownership – then we also have to assume responsibility for these companies and deal with them in a serious manner, especially if they are companies that are listed on the stock exchange. I consider it to be responsible to link a capital increase of a company that is justified and necessary with completely different topics and companies and politically injunctifies them, for example with the ÖBB. I quote a few newspaper headlines: Connect-Capital increase as the SPÖ's pledge. ‘PDO: A political cow trade.’ And: SPÖ lays down at a crossroads. I hope that this was the last case of sin and remind the SPÖ that other companies have even been destroyed by similar behaviour, and I would like to give some thought from the “consumer” to the nationalists up to the BAWAG.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13913	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13934	Mr President! High house! Mr Ikrath has now shown us in all the colours how important this capital increase is, and what is lost if this capital increase does not take place, that this capital increase still fattens up the green lung of Austria, so to speak, and then we are marching very rigidly towards the Kyoto target – precisely because of this capital increase. Mr Ikrath, I spoke to the people about this, and they asked me whether they would do these expansion projects in hydropower without raising their capital, they would of course make these projects, but they would have to take up the funds on the capital market and then have higher costs. That's exactly what it's all about. It is about the fact that the union wants to save money by collecting capital, by being able to borrow cheap money on the capital market, pay less interest, generate more profits. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Tamandl:... Dividend! ...and already said!]] This is not an environmental milestone. Look, the compound is not just investing in hydropower. A huge gas power plant is also being built, about 50 : 50 with renewable energies. That means that misallocations take place here. The covenant does things that he does only because he makes profit with them, and not because they are in the interest of this house. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is also my criticism. My criticism is that, as the owner of the union – if he is already working by half a billion – we should be able to talk about where this money is going. The dear gentlemen of the union have told me: More renewable energy, maybe wind power or biomass, we can't do, that doesn't count for us. For us this is already – for the state – because we still have a Kyoto goal to achieve. We still have savings on CO2 emissions to achieve, and that is why this is what we expect. Mr Ikrath, you said that we have this responsibility in connection. I say yes, we have this responsibility, but that also means that we speak with you. That also means that, if we already give money, half a billion euros, we want to say very well where this money is supposed to flow. That's clearly the tightness of the union. There's still a lot going on. There's still a lot to improve. That's exactly what I'd like. In the Financial Committee, however, Mr Matznetter explicitly excluded that. He said: For God's sake, for God's sake, no, you can't do that! - That's the point. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] That's why: If money is already to flow, then at least in the right direction and for right action and not just in order to generate more profits to the union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e13983	I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 5 and 6 on the implementation of a short debate. [[15:00:37]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14004	The brief debate concerns the request made by Mr Grosz, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 461/A by Mr Bucher, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Court of Auditors Act, a period of time until 15. ==References== After the end of the debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14047	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For more than a year, if not far beyond, we have been discussing here in the house in response to the disaster of the state of some communities about how in future we are improving control in Austria professionally together with the Federal Court of Auditors. The current state of play is to remind you of the following: The Federal Court of Auditors can control from itself 24 municipalities of 2 358 in Austria, a tax volume, a budget volume of € 4.6 billion in control, but another € 10.6 billion, a budget volume in the rest of the communities is currently not sufficiently controlled from our point of view. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We know the problems of national supervision. We know the problems with the National Accounting Court, and we know the disasters when we remember the names of those communities where tax money has been abused, where tax money has been put into the sand, much earlier than a year ago, such as Hartberg, for example, where the mayor there has been driven into suicide, because the municipal budget has exploded, he himself has not been the master of the situation and has not looked out. There were financial disasters in the communities across the country, to the Burgenland. And we have condemned this abuse here in Parliament and have also put forward a proposal for a solution, namely the request made by Members Bucher, Grosz, colleagues, as in future we will also have a better control by the Federal Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, there have been since 17. February last year until today, until October 2010 more than a year and a half and a half and we could once again experience a few municipal pleas – communities such as tentweg, fohnsdorf and Köflach – that could have been prevented if one had finally transferred the municipal supervision next to the national supervisory authorities a professional review by the Federal Court of Auditors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we currently have in Austria is a post-mortem review. The patient community has died. The National Supervisory Board is at stake and may then check to what extent the patient died, what he died and where the money was flown in that case. But fact is, the money is gone, and the community budget has exploded. That is why we want and we also want to confess that the Federal Court of Auditors will not only be controlled in the future, but is a professional aid and support for the communities. It is not the right place here and not the right time to shave everyone over a comb and to believe that all the communities in this country are corrupt. - No! These are just a few cases that we have across Austria, which are moving across the country, which is thus very many other communities, which are properly budgeted, properly and reliable, to tear the entire system into the abyss. We simply do not want to do that anymore, and therefore we have said that we want to give the Federal Court of Auditors more rights, which will allow the control of municipalities with a population of more than 10 000 people, but also the control of the budgetary situation from a certain sum, so that the Federal Court of Auditors can verify this too. In this sense, we have today submitted a request for a time limit to ensure that this application is binding until the 15th century. November 2010 – in a little less than a month – will finally be treated. I am pleased that, in the run-up to this proposal, the government parties not only have their own request in committee, but also that you will give us today the approval of this deadline request, so that we can then discuss, on the basis of the government proposal in the committee, and finally take a decision together after a year and a half, on behalf of the citizens, on behalf of the community citizens, on account of those taxpayers who pay their taxes daily, monthly, each year, and who also require policies to ensure that the money is properly managed. But also in responsibility to the Austrian local politicians, to the mayors, to the vice-bourgeois, to the municipal councils and to the municipal councils, who have an ever-increasing task in the situation of the economic crisis, once again today, when we consider that the municipal budgets are exploding – but not because of this because some parish councillors have This is why, because of the doubled social expenditure, the economy in many small communities, in many medium-sized communities, is no longer possible, because the budgets are superfluous, the revenue is increasingly out of place and the expenditure is no longer in real terms compared to revenue. Ds is a situation that we need to solve, regardless of the expansion of test competence. This would be a situation that we can also discuss on the basis of this example today, namely that we are finally getting through to think in the interest of these far more than 2,000 communities in Austria about an advanced financial compensation. I recall that a financial compensation was concluded in 2008 at a time when neither the representatives of the federal government nor the representatives of the countries or the municipalities could ever know what will happen to them at the end of 2008, which will happen in 2009 and in 2010. Just as the Federal Government also wants to convey to us that it cannot shape its budgetary situation during this crisis period, it is also up to the communities in Austria, which are no longer able to operate with the financial compensation, the framework conditions in 2008 and the changed situation in 2010. Therefore, the financial compensation would also have to be rethinked with the audit competence of the Court of Auditors. If, on the one hand, we give the communities the opportunity to have more money in hand, to invest in public contracts at the height of an economic crisis, and on the other hand, we demand that they submit to other control procedures, such as the Federal Court of Auditors, then this would be in the interest of all parish citizens. I can remind you of the little secret: Every citizen of this republic lives in a community and is also first managed by that community. To a large extent, the municipality is also responsible for maintaining the quality of life and habitat of the Austrians. Therefore, I would like to end by thanking the government parties for signaling approval of the deadline request. For our part, I also signal approval of the government proposal, which is in the Committee, so that we can finally extend the scope for checks after a year and a half. But I am also trying to encourage us to discuss, in this situation, the extent to which we are prepared to think about an advanced financial balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14129	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14160	Madam President. High house! Dear Mr Grosz, it is probably better than you go milking ants now, but that you really... [[Call the ÖVP:Muse!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Learn better before! Mouse!]] - Thank you, the Steirers know better. Let us return to that subject which has been very intensive in our work for a year, namely an extension of the audit competences of the Court of Auditors to the municipalities. I would like to point out that very intense negotiations took place last year, with all the political groups. For example, I would like to remind you of the July round, where we have composed ourselves – constitutional speakers, accountants and speakers – to take further steps. We will vote in favour of the request for a deadline, because the proposal by the government parties is on the table and the negotiations will certainly continue at the forthcoming meeting of the Constitutional Committee, which will take place in November. What's this about? – It is true that the Court of Auditors can influence municipalities, at the request of the national governments, even in municipalities with less than 10 000 inhabitants, so that they can also be examined. Twice a year, at the request of the national governments, the national accounting authorities can examine municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants and also below, i.e. a very important innovation. Furthermore, the prevention of double audits is established, i.e. there must be an agreement between the Federal Court of Auditors and the national courts; likewise, a punctual flexibilization of the test is determined. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not so that the government would have slept, but in this spring a constitutional blockade has been proclaimed from your side. But I am glad that now fresh wind is blowing – probably autumn is always blessed with very fresh wind – and we are now taking a step forward. [[Abg. Neubauer: Vienna-Wahl!]] In any case, it is also a question of the efficiency of the municipal offices and the fact that the national accounting court and the Federal Court of Auditors can keep an eye on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14223	Mr Mag. Molterer's next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14245	Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed the federal accounts a few minutes ago. The statements by RH President Moser are still, I suppose, all in the ears, that there is a common responsibility for the question of state finances and their rehabilitation: the federal government, the federal states and also the municipalities. The municipalities work in the most important areas and mostly excellent. What we are proposing in the Committee's proposal is that we extend the audit competence of the Court of Auditors to municipalities not only up to 20 000 or more than 20 000 inhabitants, but also to communities with more than 10 000 inhabitants – and at the same time we say that the Federal Court of Auditors should be able to examine the distributed companies of the municipalities, because many communities have gone into the dislocation and it requires massive professional knowledge that this works well. With an amendment to our own application, we also make it clear that community associations will continue to be subject to the examination by the Federal Court of Auditors in the future. I therefore believe that with this step we achieve a substantial improvement, which is ultimately also in the interest of the communities, because this service task, which the Federal Court of Auditors carries out with it, also benefits the communities. This is a proof of confidence in the good work done by the mayors, while at the same time providing a better service through control, in the sense of taxpayers and taxpayers. Yes, we will agree to this deadline request. I would also like to thank the fact that it works in this form. We therefore agree with the deadline proposal and at the same time have the assurance that we will now also move forward towards decision-making. This is a very positive signal, how parliamentarianism can work. And I hope that this signal of the two-thirds majority can now be applied to important other issues, which still have one solution: in the sense of a common progress. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14293	Mr Zanger is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14314	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! For some time now, we have been discussing the possibilities for expanding the Court of Auditors' audit capabilities, and we have also discussed various parameters – whether the number of residents is the number of people, also the sizes of the budget, whether they are debt indicators or the like. Today morning, Minister of Finance Pröll spoke about the fact that narrow laws would be useful in the sense of administrative reform. . I mean, here would be the possibility of constructing a really slim law, with the possibility that the Federal Court of Auditors should be able to examine all the communities. That would be the simplest and the most meaningful, because the truth is: Even the smallest municipalities are served through the financial compensation. Financial compensation is federal money. And when federal money goes to “down, ” the federal government should also have the possibility of control. Thus, my access is that the Federal Court of Auditors should also have this competence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would then be a truly reasonable law, because it would give comparisons. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What works in a community that is large-scale like another, good? What doesn't work so well? Where can other communities learn from one another? Where does one do something good, the other a little less good? I think it is in a crisis situation in which we are now – also questions such as: how is it going on?; the municipalities all lament; many depend solely on the incomes of the federal government; these are especially the settlement communities, which can very little in municipal tax because they did not have companies – we would really be well served if the Court of Auditors were also able to act as advisory service providers. It's not about saying something's happening here, something's being made bad, there's a problem, why are there problems and so on and so on, but it's about setting the signal: We from the Court of Auditors will support you if you do not know. We give suggestions, send signals, show opportunities how you can develop yourself further – and above all, the communities are also concerned with getting better. It is also about efficient management of the capital used. And since I do not doubt that the Federal Court of Auditors would be the best control body to offer the appropriate advice.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14369	Mr Mag. Kogler is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14390	Madam President. This deadline is the right instrument in the case, for several reasons: firstly, if this is to be taken as an opportunity to signal jurisdiction, that the government is, as it were, in the finale of the negotiations and that it is making a proposal and that one or another opposition party wants to agree, although this is a different request. But the second point, why the deadline has its meaning, is Mrs. Lapp – because you have expressed a blockade by the opposition here – that it is due to another preceding “blockade” of the opposition that we have this right now. Only the negotiations on banking secrecy have enabled several audit competences of the Court of Auditors to be expanded. An “attachment” of this has now been left, so to speak, to bring it to an end. Although the compromise may not taste everyone, it is good at all, so in this respect the form is appropriate. Just, as I said, At the time, we had a constitutional change relatively quickly, which then led to Skylink being finally examined. Furthermore, we have taken a decision here that the bank package can be reviewed, which was incomprehensiblely not the case at first – and this matter. So we'll finish it, that's good. In the matter itself, I would rather agree with my previous speaker, Mr Zanger, because his proposal is, of course, staggering, because it is just about federal money. And that alone would justify maintaining the possibility of reflection for the Court of Auditors, as the body of the National Council. In practice, of course, there is already a problem. I understand the communities and the mayors again when they say: Well, the current system is pretty funny and inefficient! We would have our own control committee, we have something at the county level in some federal states, at least we would have a municipal authority which, of course, belongs to the state governments and which works more or less – as a rule, they do not work! – In any case, a community has the problem that in the case of ballistic exams there for one week, someone sits around the office for a week and therefore does not continue the actual work at all. That is what I really understand from the community association. The actual project was also on the part of the government parties to reform the overall system. I can see less of that now. In the context, however, it would have been possible to expand the Court of Auditors' competences and perhaps find approval there as well. I understand, Mr Molterer, that, of course, real policy must take place where the interests are organized, for example in the municipal government. Only, you could have gone on a total reform. Now we'll have to be happy when we bring it together. That's better than nothing. I have never doubted that something will come about at any time – with a delay of six months – because – this has already turned out a few times on other occasions; I would also like to express this respectfully here – the word and handshake of Klubobmann's head, but also of you in this matter, and usually holds it. It is, of course, an improvement, so that the request is sufficient. However, I would still think that we should actually be able to trace public money back to the final station in the matter – it may not have been the last time. If we can do this even for companies that are only 50 percent state-owned – in some federal states only 25 percent – why should it not be possible to do so in the Austrian real-political financial constitution with the municipalities? Yes, what does real-life financial constitution mean? – That we de facto have almost only federal taxes. There may be a local tax on the municipalities. In essence and on average, at least two thirds to three quarters of federal funds are spent there by the municipalities. Apart from that, it is also about playing not only the evil controller, but also about helping many communities – as has been mentioned –. But be it! The deadline – if it is now mature – is correct for the above reasons. I notice that consensus is expandable. The BZÖ has obviously already signaled approval here. We should be right that at least that happens. We'd want more. I am not sure, however, whether, in the course of the ongoing negotiations, as we are even bringing the local authorities closer together, we are not pursuing budget targets, but will soon be back on the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14454	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14476	Madam President. High house! Mr Kogler rightly pointed out, Mrs Lapp, that this request, of course, has a Genesis. He's dealing with the package that we closed at the time to save the banks. This is, as it were, the last part of what is to be implemented here. Now I do not want to repeat what controls everything, especially at the municipal level. It is important that there is also a risk awareness there when money – even at the municipal level, since there are now considerable funds available – is invested in speculation business, because you think you are going to do the big business and then end up on the belly. It is good to extend the competence of the Court of Auditors in order to create appropriate prevention from the outset. Of course, Mr Kogler, it's right that you could do more. Theoretically, we can also provide all the municipalities with the control of the Court of Auditors. That would be all right. I just think the longer we push this back, the less it comes out at the end. We already have to approach the resistances of the town government – not only of the community, but also of the town government – and see that here, of course, the lobbyism of the municipalities does not It's completely fruitless. That is, the longer the whole thing stays, the less it will come out. As a stage one can therefore see that this may be tested in the next few years, decades – maybe it will last longer too. If one sees that one finds the result, it should be right if the national governments – and I say so – and the rural days ensure that the communities with less than 10,000 inhabitants are tested in a timely and sustainable manner. If this does not work, we will stand there again and talk again about whether we are not yet expanding the powers of the Court of Auditors. It's still important to me to hold two things. First: It is also important that companies should be transferred to actual mastery rather than to this previously existing criterion of formal participation or participation, but to the actual mastery situation – indirectly. This may also be indirect mastery conditions which indicate control of public undertakings in the national or local area. – This is the first comment. Last comment: Mr Cap, we recognise that too. We believe that such parliamentarianism can really work, for example, on issues that are not really controversial, where one could have a little more, a little less, but which are not fundamentally controversial, for example, when one comes across the opposition in the acceleration – it is nothing else today; therefore, the government is far from agreeing to our request – and we are so to speak in the matter. Conversely, it can also run once. Only, we will have a discussion today, as was the case in the last judicial committee. That was on the edge of Grotesque. That's why I'm saying: I would like to be prepared to extend a material parliamentarianism and to take up the offers of the government groups there, but if a committee is only more concerned about whether the government can agree or not, whether it is “fast as possible” or not, then the whole thing becomes grotesque. But today we will still debate this in connection with a judicial matter. Today we want to hold on: Parliamentaryism can work in this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14543	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request of Mr Grosz, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on amendment 461/A of Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Court of Auditors Act, a period of time until 15. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[15:27:57]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14576	I will resume the negotiations on points 5 and 6 of the agenda. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14603	Madam President. We agree with the increase in the capital of the alliance, so that the federal government as a 51 percent owner participates in it with € 510 million, because we take responsibility for the ownership of the Republic. I think that Mr Ikrath is quite right in saying that, as a politician and as an owner, no matter whether the respective company is listed on the stock exchange or not, we should not talk about it badly. That's why Neither do you find a single quote from a well-known SPÖ politician who would have spoken badly about the union in connection with the capital increase. However, I can usually find quotations where the State Secretary is not talking about companies that belong to 100 percent of the Republic, for example the ÖBB. – The Secretary of State is apparently not here. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: He's not talking bad about the company, but he's talking about management errors!]] Perhaps we could wait for the Secretary of State to come! I think so much time must be. I would briefly interrupt my speech to give the Secretary of State time to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14652	The Secretary of State is already here. You can keep talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14667	Maybe we'll wait until he stops calling so he can really listen. That probably makes it easier for him. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Justice by Krainer!]] Mr Ikrath – you were still here – has rightly criticised and said that, as a responsible party, one can't make property that is representative of one's own. That is why there is also no quote from renowned SPÖ politicians where the union is misrepresented. I have said, however, that there are often quotations where you misrepresent the ÖBB with half-truths, with falsehoods or with twisted facts. I would ask you not to do that in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ÖBB are an important infrastructure company and far too bad to change cheap political small money.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14717	Mrs Lichtenecker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14738	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Secretary of State at the Intergovernmental Bank is right to smile. It is quite an entertaining matter that you deliver today from the ÖVP and the SPÖ to focus on all the kindnesses, niceties and other things. Back to the Causa we have now on the issue of capital increase. It is true that it is little legitimate to link and negotiate one with another. In any case, what would happen if one made a capital increase and, as a majority owner, brought in capital is that one makes it quite clear where the gravity should be. We miss that in this form completely. Because it can't be that you just put on two of the energy forms now, namely the great hydropower and the gas plants. You have to say for yourself that this is actually a tunnel look if you focus only on these two forms of energy supply. A safe energy mix looks completely different, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this is an outstanding element of energy efficiency: saving, saving and saving. We're missing that completely. Then, of course, the use of the energy forms that we ourselves have in front of the door, also in order to create jobs in Austria, to secure jobs, to secure energy supply and to produce a durable energy supply. On today's remarks on how many jobs are created: My colleague, Mr Ikrath, has done this with figures. Yes, it may be. You can be sure: In a knowledge society, such as small economies such as Austria, and should remain, it will not be so much about securing jobs with concrete, but with know-how, education, research. That will be the central issue. There is, of course, the question: Where do you use the means available in this form? Of course, hydropower makes sense. We have shown this very well under the direction of Rudi Anschober in Upper Austria. There, during the last legislative period, an impressive renovation/renewal programme for small hydropower has taken place, for more than 250 small hydropower plants, Mr Scheibner, with an efficiency increase of 77 GWh! Yes, Mr Scheibner, there you look too. [[Abg. Scheibner: Much advertising is made there! Many ads!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I always look!]] This is more than the performance of the Lambach power plant. Well, that's probably the way. With all the understanding of capital increases, the question is what to do with the money. The question is of course: What is the understanding of an energy supplier, most of whom belongs to the public sector, the Republic of Austria? Do you understand that you are continuing business policy as in the last 50 years, or do you understand yourself as a partner in climate protection with the population, with the economy in Austria and is focusing on modern and innovative areas, or can you only do this half-way and modern with advertising campaigns? This is something we believe it would be time for a long time – this applies to all companies in which the Republic of Austria has participated, and which is majority owners – to take a modern, forward-looking, innovative path in the sense of security of energy supply and in the sense of climate protection in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14788	Mr Zanger has now come to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14809	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! We liberals will agree to the capital increase. There are always different ways of thinking ahead of such an investment – and nothing else is it. There's the investor's view one day. This alone is not an uninteresting one, because at €9 billion stock exchange capitalization – half of which is federal, about €4.5 billion – and distributed this year The dividend yield alone is slightly more than 4 percent of the dividend of € 200 million. Many other investors would be happy to have such a return. It is also, of course, about the preservation of substances and the increase in value. It can't be estimated on the quick. To this end, there is a view of the shareholder or majority owner. It is a company that has a great importance for the public and the state – that is not a question: on the one hand, as a provider of funds for the state budget and on the other, as a means of ensuring infrastructure in the field of energy, hydropower. That's a subject where we say: We see responsibility as a state to ensure it for the public. We want to take the hydropower one step further into energy autonomy. That is clearly an argument for us. What is another important issue for us: We say yes, as a dominant owner, we want to continue to maintain the influence! We want to think for economic reasons – these have already been mentioned: Jobs, the entire economic component – but also from business-related considerations – are included here. If someone thinks the strategic influence would be too little, then you have to say: Okay, well, that could be a good thing, but as someone who goes there, I still have the opportunity to continue negotiating, to stay at the push all the time. I can do that if I argue differently and say: No, I do not want this increase at all, I do not think. An investment is, as it were, always a weighing of Plus and Minus. For the Freedom Party, there has been a clear plus for the State of Austria and for its people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14857	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14879	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Cap, “sleeping”, “full suitcase”, “don’t be so depressing out”, “you fleece, you”! – Don't worry, Madam President, you don't have to give me a call for order. These are all quotations, which have been called out from the ÖVP towards your speaker Krainer. [[Abg. Hörl: From Westenthaler!]] You must also read in the minutes. And the whole thing in front of this "Wellness Clausur" of the Coalition in Loipersdorf! I have the impression that you will not spend this clause on wellness and sauna, but more on the blood meadow if that goes on. It's similar to me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is coalition style brand SPÖ-ÖVP. Mr Krainer, congratulations on what you have done! But all respect, the mood is at the height. However, I am now on the subject because it is important and because we cannot accept this capital increase over the taxpayer – as we heard from our clubman today – which is in favour of it, and cannot simply accept it, and cannot be removed from the discussion of how the union has behaved in recent years and months, but above all, how the Federal Government is dealing with a completely nebulous, non-existent energy strategy. Must you imagine that the connection... I am surprised by the colleagues of the FPÖ. Even in the committee, they have already surprised me, where they voted and soundless, in truth without reason – today also again: without reason – like this Ka pital increase. I wonder, Why? The FPÖ – that is what I thought – also stands for consumers and electricity providers. There are 60 000 households, customers of the association, in Vienna alone, and in Austria there are 240 000 households. That's not little. It is interesting to look at the evolution of the electricity price, especially since at the beginning of this year the association has advertised with the fact that it is the most affordable supplier, has made actions for customers, has operated client fishing, and then a few weeks later it will carry out very massive electricity price increases, which consumers pay and which, above all, also pay for SMEs – the smaller and medium-sized enterprises – because they have nothing at all from the electricity price reductions that – and now it comes! – have already been carried out internationally. Since August 2009, the international energy prices in the cellar have been rushing, and what is it doing in Austria? – He increases the electricity prices! This is unacceptable, and it cannot be discussed separately from today's debate, but it must also be considered. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] By the way, this fact, on the one hand, criticises the President of the Tumpel Chamber of Workers almost weekly and rightly complains in his capacity as AK President of the Association that electricity customers are being massively shut down from the compound, but on the other hand, it also criticises another social partners, namely the President of the Chamber of Commerce, who has calculated the problem of SMEs – I could bring several quotations – and has said that the electricity price has been halved internationally over the course of a year, but the SMEs have not heard anything about it, but have still paid too high a price of electricity. – And that is what we are criticising! A second topic is the lack of transparency in billing for electricity and gas customers. When I said in the committee, I admit it and I like to put myself at the top of all Austrians – hundreds of thousands – who can't start with their electricity calculations, because they're too complicated, too intrusive, and not readable, one of the unsurpassed Members in his self-glorification Krainer told me: Well, you come to me, I'll explain the electricity bill to you. – To this day I do not have your phone number, Mr. Krainer! I would call them on the Internet and invite all Austrian electricity customers who do not know the electricity bill to call Mr Krainer. Your phone number would be blocked for years, Mr. Krainer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Very good!]] So it is, and this is not only me, but that also says the Federal Authority, which literally speaks of the fact that most of the non-transparent, most of the illegal billings of electricity providers are inconceivable. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: The Federal Law Authority? – The Federal Law applied authority!]] “The billings would often be so confusing and incomprehensible that a simple comparison with cheaper providers and thus a change would be impossible,” says the Federal Competition Authority. But Mr. Krainer knows each other so well and explains the electricity bill to all. - Wonderful! I am glad that you bring this together at least, but you will notice that this is a problem, just as the fact – third point – that the change of providers continues to take too long. Mr State Secretary, I do not understand that a three-week period of change is still foreseen in the new government template for a year and a half thereafter. Yeah, where are we?- Oh, my God! We live in times of electronic communications and data processing. It can't be that you have to wait three weeks for a provider change! Repair this, present a proper strategy in energy policy, then you will also have us as an ally again! As long as the combination only increases electricity prices, is opaque and the customers are wavering, there is no consent from us for an increase in capital.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14965	Mr Steindl is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e14986	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! First of all, I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mr Krainer – I am trying to remain objective: If the ÖBB were only as successful as the group, we would have no reason to comment on it either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Apples with pears!]] I would like to point out that in 2004, for example, in the ÖBB system, in the ÖBB company, we had a turnover of €4 billion and had already arrived at almost €7 billion. At the same time, we know that there are countries with similar topography – e.g. Switzerland, where the railways go up at an altitude of more than 3,000 metres – where even profits can be achieved. So there is already a lack of efficiency somewhere, and perhaps certain privileges that we should somehow channel over a short or long time are also a factor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the capital increase of the group: My previous speakers, especially Mr Ikrath, have already discussed this in detail – €2.5 billion in total investment, and we will generate €5 billion from it in economic terms. These are more than 37,000 direct jobs. We will thus make a big leap in the further expansion of hydropower, by 2015 an increase to about 3.5 terawatt hours is planned, bringing us closer to our 2020 target for renewable energy. There is also an energy strategy in Austria, which has already been presented several times, but obviously this is not known. – We will thus also be able to achieve a corresponding increase. In addition, the partnership will invest in the infrastructure to ensure the security of energy supply, and ultimately the investor and owner of 51 percent of the group will also have a very significant economic success. For example, in 2008, we still had € 119 million in dividends, and the association delivered a corporate tax of € 142 million. In 2010 we will have 225 million € dividend and a corporate tax of 197 million €. That is why this investment will be amortised very quickly. I would also like to recall the stock exchange value, which was €3.3 billion in 2000 and now exceeds €9 billion. We also participate. This participation is a benefit for all: for the environment, because it brings an ecological future, for all of us, because there is security of supply, and for the state that has a good investment, which we should further promote and protect.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15033	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15065	Madam President. On the dispute ÖBB – Association: My God, I remember what the opposition is always held, If anything is junctified! We will always tell you: Please go well, with you is the daily business, and that is not even illegal, but it is a matter of politics. – In this case it will have been that way again, otherwise this proposal, which we now decide on, would have already come to the House earlier. – That’s why I’m not doing this now, but the next time one of the opposition parties wants to negotiate something somewhere to signal approval elsewhere, please don’t call it cow trafficking! – If it’s right there, then it’s right, and I mean it’s right, because it’s about balance of interests in policy. That's it! What are the interests of the ÖBB? . Look, Mr State Secretary, we agree, I believe, when it comes to the fact that there is something similar to privileges that should be found, that the whole association should become efficient and so on. You suffer as a customer there sometimes really like a pig. – It may be. But the question is what's to blame. A partial debt must have led to the so-called reform, which was carried out in the beginning of the 2000s, because it has only really brought the inefficiency there to fruition – you should not forget that. And if you do all this a little better now, it will all be right. Only the following needs to be clear – and this really combines the two topics: Just add your finger and say, 3 billion or 4 billion wastes, that's a biting next to it. Of course, there are services that one must look at nationally and not only can see the business economy, and the point is already: As long as we have transport systems, in which motorized individual traffic – and especially truck transit traffic – is cross-subsidized, if we count on environmental costs and everything, up to two thirds, it will still be right for me, if the alternative is ÖBB – as long as we do not have a reasonable eco-tax system or reasonable roads for the truck transit, that at last there is cost-truth – that the other one, which is better and which is said to be wanted more by all, will be subsidized in a certain sub-area. – That’s so simple in the economy! It is the second best solution, but the best is not made. It is hardly enforced at European level that we finally come to the true cost. And I don't let that part push the ÖBB into the shoes – certainly not! We cannot always have these Sunday speeches on climate protection and the devil knows what is going on about us and then we can count exactly there on those parts of the deficit that are in some way desired, because it has an intentional subsidy character there, where, elsewhere, it is prevented by means of conversion possibilities of greater damage. The bill is simply so absurd that it must end once, or you stop with these Sunday speeches on climate protection et cetera! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That does not mean – and I recognise your intention, because your topic is in itself another access, as far as I understand it – that you should not see whether you can somehow manage better in the operation or there and that it cannot be put up there or there at all better. These are two completely different things, we meet again. In the Court of Auditors' reports, unfortunately, this whole matter is always representative; we already know that. The same applies to the connection. It is purely business and company law that all this is legitimate, because we are there as a Republic – thank God, say I – still majority owners. This is perfectly reasonable, and Mr Zanger has already argued this for the second time to my surprise very plausible. However, we still have a different position, which is where it is that the same sum could of course be used elsewhere. I am not so sure that the dividend profits that will be recovered there, or the tax payments that will be made there, will really lead to a change in energy policy at last. Either we confess now that we have a public company that is aligned with the energy policy objectives – and that is probably climate protection targets – or we have to invest directly in renewable energy sources – which do not always have to be hydropower – and where there is really no need. I think that this kind of electricity policy, which is being operated there, is totally missing. This can be considered “wonderful ” in certain regions. If we do not proceed to reduce the waste of electricity – the value of the highest energy use – so that we do not have any increase in consumption, which just galop us if space heating is still operated with electricity when hot water is processed with electricity – a huge waste! – then all of this will be of no use. If we were to change something, we would achieve much more with much, much less money. - That's the point! That would ultimately mean that we are always saving ourselves this amount of energy. But if we do not, the increase in consumption will always drive us away. This looks like, for example, that in the Styria with a Mural power plant with a storage level that costs up to €100 million – and there we need three years of construction time – we gain just as much as the extra consumption in 20 weeks. With such an energy and electricity policy one fails completely because one would have to dig loud new rivers and would still be in the back if one did not intervene in the consumption structure and there was a controlling effect. There are so many inefficiencies to be raised that this is really the more reasonable and better investment. But the union won't do that for as long as it still deserves to sell electricity. - That's quite logical. So energy policy has to be put on the feet from the head, because that's exactly your dilemma. In reality, they do not follow an energy strategy, but they do what the companies say – here the combination, there the OMV, and that is exactly what it looks like at the end. We can all get into the hair of these climate protection speeches – it really belongs to something done!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15156	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15177	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr State Secretary! First the phone number: 01 – for Vienna – 24 7 24. This is not the phone number of Colleague Krainer, but the telephone number of the E-Control. If anyone has any questions about the electricity bill, he can call there. On the subject of capital increase, I would like to say the following: Firstly, I believe it is important that we agree to the increase in the share capital, on the one hand, for reasons of better energy supply, on the other, because we invest in the most important and, in my opinion, best form of renewable energy, namely in hydropower. I do not see this decision-making as such that there is a one-sided pre-fixing that one can only invest more in hydropower. In the course of the implementation of the third liberalisation package and in further processing of the energy strategy, we still have many possibilities to force other forms of renewable energy accordingly. I also believe that investment in hydropower will help us to reach the 20-20-20 targets of the European Union, at least in the area of greenhouse gas reduction and the share of renewable energy. Where we still have to consider how we continue to do so, is the issue of energy efficiency. - That doesn't help us. If we allow nine energy efficiency laws in the future – one for every federal country – we will probably be able to stop discussing all that Mr Kogler mentioned before. I think it takes a uniform national energy efficiency law. That's what we're going to do. The second point, which is important to me, is a commitment to public property, to strategic property, to general protection. I very much hope that the investments made will also create high-quality jobs – in the energy sector, but also in those areas which are also affected by these new buildings, especially the construction industry. These are very, very important priorities, which will help us to move forward accordingly even in economically difficult times. On the occasion, I would like to welcome the works councils of the union among us. Welcome to Parliament and all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15232	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15253	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The raw material water is one of our most valuable domestic natural resources. Our country has the privilege of making the most of this special natural situation for itself and its inhabitants. Water is on the one hand food, but water is also energy sources. Hardly any other country, like us – and I say thank God – can afford to give up nuclear energy. The use of hydropower as renewable energy is of great importance to Austria's electricity production. About 60 percent of domestic electricity is generated by hydropower. This will make a significant contribution to the security of supply through renewable energy and domestic value added. The capital increase of the compound means an investment in hydropower and also in the security of electricity supply – capital, which also supports the achievement of energy strategies with a view to increasing the share of renewable energy, capital, which also supports the expansion of pump storage capacity or the expansion of alternatives such as wind power. Ladies and gentlemen, the expansion of hydropower also brings great economic leverage. – That has already been addressed. The capital use of the federal government – which is around €500 million – totals an investment of €2.5 billion, the total economic effect will be €5 billion. Counted – a great sum! But there is also an employment impulse, and I should also like to mention growth strengthening. Ladies and gentlemen, I also see that the hydropower is in the field of tension of different interests and objectives: On the one hand, energy and climate policy objectives stand, on the other hand, the requirements of nature and water protection. I am convinced – and there are many successful examples – that both the ecological compatibility and the energy economic aspects can be achieved in the further expansion of hydropower. In this capital increase, I see an important contribution to increasing the share of renewable energy. However, we also need the means to promote thermal rehabilitation, also in the sense of savings measures, but we also need resources to promote all other alternatives – also in order to increase the overall share of Austria's value added from energy production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15301	Now Mr. State Secretary Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15323	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As in this debate, in addition to the show company Verbund, another large Austrian company, namely the Austrian Bundesbahnen, I may say a few words about this. For me – and I assume that for the entire federal government – what is contained in the government programme is true. It literally states that “a massive increase in the productivity of the ÖBB is essential”. “A continuation of the ÖBB reform is essential. In particular, the structure needs to be further developed and increased efforts to reduce costs.” – So far to the area of ÖBB. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And now we're connected. What we are doing here today is certainly energy- and climate-politically correct for me, it is economic-politically right and it is also economically right. How do I get to that? Mr Westenthaler, I am pleased that, in addition to the government group, there has also been broad agreement on the part of the opposition. I think this is the right thing to do if we want to strengthen a strong Austrian company, as has been said by Mr Zanger. And we are in a situation where it is a matter of giving the union the opportunity to take capital far beyond 500 million in order to create a leverage effect here, which then results in an energy and climate policy. We have committed ourselves to reaching 34 percent of renewable energy by 2020. The hydropower, where we are already very strong, is a very great possibility. Second: This investment succeeds in achieving a leverage effect with a total economic impact of €5 billion. We need this in order to strengthen economic growth, which is now God's thanks again in the roll. That is why this is absolutely the right thing to do. We must do everything we can for Austria's location in terms of economic policy and financial policy to strengthen the companies listed on the stock market even after this crisis. And against this background too, this decision is correct. I am therefore pleased that such broad support will be given to this presentation at the forthcoming vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15374	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15395	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! So that we do not confuse apples and pears – we have already discussed this in committee –: A capital increase is that newly imposed shares are first offered to existing shareholders who can draw and thus prevent them from having a lower share in the company. We participate in this part because we feel that the Republic of Austria is more than 50 percent involved in the union. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] We also need to do so because we also have a constitutional burden to do so. Full stop. This has nothing to do with the electricity prices. This is not even an issue. If you take your money and place it on a savings book, you may also have 100 € less in the wallet, but on the savings book plus 100 is noted. They have not become poorer, Mr Westenthaler. Just as little is the drawing of shares an issue. And that's why it's an investment, a reasonable one. I would like to give just a few tips to the friends of the government partner to calm the excitement. Dear Koni Steindl, please! I don't want to deal with the propaganda effect right now. I mean, the results of the elections in Styria and Vienna have shown that nothing has been done. In particular, one does not send out the State Secretary to make propaganda as the owner of a state-owned company. It's a failure, it's done by the honourable Member, not him. It hurts him, it hurts you in the elections, it doesn't help. But you can't believe propaganda, Koni, that's the most important thing. There's no 7 billion. We have 2 billion, if we take everything into account, including the public services, the services ordered, and the real deal was 200 million. The Swiss Bundesbahnen get the Gotthard tunnel financed from the budget. But since the liabilities are taken into account? Excuse me, how can I keep the opposition from confusing apples and pears if you do the same in your own propaganda? That's why I'm asking: The elections are over. Let this be part of it, let us stick to the government programme for the revision of the past! We need the traces of Mrs. Minirock-Erass-Forstinger, Mr. Schmid-Burnout – and who else have we had there? – and the Hubsi Gorbach and all the consequences at the ÖBB. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] Let's do the government program, let's do it! But, please, the elections are over, save this part! Let us try to lead the companies in such a way that we show the population, we have a coalition that makes it good in economic policy, which makes it good in the budget and which also manages to repair the past structures accordingly, from the Deutsche Bank commitment, from Söllinger and Huber to the adventures in Iran and what else there has been. [[New calls from the Abg. Grosz.]] But don't do political business and think that's going to be with the minister who cleans it up, so people don't look so closely, the ÖBB are red anyway. That doesn't work, quod era demonstrandum. This government is also very, very good for the ÖBB, and our Minister Doris Bures can do it very well. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15454	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15475	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to refer to item 6 of today's agenda, to the 2010 Finality Change Act. With this Finality Change Act, the EU Directive of 6. ==References== The aim of this Council and European Parliament Directive is to ensure the smooth operation of settlements in payment and securities settlement systems in the common market. The various specificisations, such as the responsibility of system operators or the definition of the business day, as well as further clarifications and clarifications of the current legal situation, are more efficient, cost-effective and also beneficial from the point of view of consumer protection. Ladies and gentlemen! The current bill does not create any burdens on the budget for the federal government or for any other local authority. No new planning sites are needed either. There are no other proposals from the social partners. In the relevant committee, this government template was widely approved by all political groups. A word to discuss ÖBB – Switzerland: A difference between the Swiss Party landscape and Austria is that all Swiss parties stand behind their train and are proud of their train. I think you can learn something from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15519	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law on special provisions relating to the increase in the basic capital of VERBUND AG and the title and receipt in 879 of the supplements. I am looking for an appropriate sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their agreement to this draft, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft amendment to the Finality Law 2010 and the title and receipt in 888 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We arrive at the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:09:26]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (869 D.B._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on the distribution of withdrawn proceeds from crime (913 d.a.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (870 D.B._Other Organiser Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth as well as the Protocol (914 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15604	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Weinzinger. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15631	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk briefly about item 8 of our agenda. It is the report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template on Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region – what is learned in this Parliament: there is a Hong Kong Special Administrative Region – the People's Republic of China to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you know our attitude, especially my personal attitude. Of course, I am a friend of double taxation agreements, not least because of my civil profession as a tax advisor. But if double taxation agreements are changed because we, the Republic of Austria, have had to change our banking secret at the brutal pressure of the EU, as the EU and not the Republic itself have imagined, then we are consistent against such double taxation agreements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So we will not agree. Well, you might think now you have a rest from me. Not at once, but soon. Madam President, we already know each other from the Upper Austrian country day, where I, also under your chairmanship, was allowed to serve as country president. You, the High House, have known me for four years now, and I know you and this Parliament much longer, of course, but ad personam for four years. I have been able to experience beautiful and less beautiful things here. The illuminance of the light will not irritate me too much right now. [[The speaker refers to the lamp showing the closeness of the end of the speaking time.]] I've met interesting people, I've come to know some of the thoughts I've had about Not at all, and I have had to endure views that hurt me. I've always been hurt by that, for example, my life ceilings, and that's the civil idea, partly criminalized by parts of you. That really hurt me, because I know that's not right. The gender development has hurt me. In order to clarify and establish that man and woman are, of course, equivalent to that man and woman are, of course, equal, it is not necessary to rape the language – a female term. This is always happening here. That hurts me. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has also hurt me that the river has been interrupted so many very good and interesting speeches because you no longer want to see the simple, simple feature of German language that the majority in German is gender-neutral. If you want to talk about Austrians and have to say “Austrians and Austrians” again and again, the flow of speech is interrupted. That hurt me too, ladies and gentlemen. It also hurt me that one time or another there was mutual appreciation in the zeal of the fight. But finally and finally, I was told in my early youth, a parliament, whether at national or federal level, is not a girl's pension. You've got to keep up with that. It was nice that I met really interesting people here. And I do not want to say that from all the political groups, not just my own group, I have heard tingious and great speeches. That this was not always the case was often due to the subject matter, but in principle some really interesting and captivating speeches, as has been said, were heard from all the political groups. I have also met women and men in one group or another, who, of course, I consider to be highly esteemed and who I feel almost friendlyly connected to, without the fact that my own attitude has only been postponed or suffered in the least. It was also very nice for me that I was able to experience that in my own club in these four years a friendly companionship ruled and still reigns and that we have with our clubman an almost generous, but very, very successful man. With “great” I mean that he is here and because the discipline of ourselves has been too little, namely the lack of discipline. This is something that I have unfortunately noticed a lot of times, the lack of discipline. We should be more careful to see that the people are watching us and that they are very happy to see it if their representatives are there too. Of course, one or the other has to go to a coffee or visit the toilet or come and eat something. You also have to drink a beer here and there, for example, what I do not hesitate to do, and I promise you, I will now drink a beer on the well-being of this house. I wish you all and I wish our Republic a healthy, lively parliamentaryism. I would like to continue to wish you much success, perhaps not too much success in relation to your political developments. I would like to ask myself and my own group to do so. That's in the nature of the thing. I thank you for having been well received and wish you and our Parliament and our Republic all the best. Live the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15738	Mr Weinzinger, I wish you of course also personal well-being, on behalf of my fellow Members, without interruption of the flow of speech. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15768	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! If Mr Weinzinger would like to continue with a little bit of chatting out of the little sewing box of the FPÖ club, I would like to make my speaking time available. – I just wanted to put that forward. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me take a closer look at the agreement on the distribution of recovered proceeds from crime with the United States of America. I think this is an important, clear, but also necessary signal. We hereby place a sign that we are willing, but also capable of combating globalised crime. But it is also a starting point, because in addition to the United States of America, there are a number of other countries where such an agreement would certainly make sense. What's this about? – It is about the fact that it is more perceptible that proceeds from crimes, criminal acts by perpetrators or entire groups of perpetrators are moved to the other state and placed there, in the specific case of the USA and Austria. Not least, due to the excellent cooperation of justice and law enforcement authorities in both states, it has succeeded in ensuring considerable assets from such crimes. Unless this money is passed or allocated to the victims, a default procedure will be initiated in both countries and an expiry decision will be implemented. However, the wealth declared in this way could not so far be divided between the two cooperating countries. This will now be settled here. It is a question of each Contracting State having the right to have such a division carried out, but no Contracting Party must comply with this request if it does not consider it appropriate. That is to say, an inappropriate enrichment of a contractual partner, of a Contracting State, seems to be excluded. In the case of the USA and Austria, we must, or may, assume that the agreement will lead to slight benefits for the United States, but this certainly does not call into question the meaning of this agreement in principle. It is about strengthening international legal assistance, strengthening the performance of legal systems and enforcement mechanisms and remaining competitive internationally in the fight against crime. It is also about creating incentives for individual states to work even more together, to take up the international fight against organized crime even more strongly, whether in economic crime or in corruption, whether in tow or in drug trafficking. In this respect, we believe that this agreement should be welcomed without reservation. May other such agreements follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15808	Mr Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15832	Madam President. High house! I'll make it short: We do not agree with the double taxation agreement because we want to sign it. And that's... At the time, we voted in favour of the Act of Enforcement – for all those who do not know what it is: this is the evasion of banking secrecy – only because we have cooperated with it. A certain movement can be seen in the points, but a point is still bothering me, namely the fact that there is no movement from my point of view in the matter of minority law for committee of inquiry that we were negotiating at the time. With the rejection of this double taxation agreement, we want, as in the past, to show that agreements have to be complied with. So we will not continue to agree to a double taxation agreement here until you comply with the agreement on the point and on the point, because I expect that if you make up your mind, then you will have to do so accordingly. Therefore, you see that you are bringing movement into the issue of minority law in relation to committee of inquiry. Then we will go back to two-thirds of the majority. Otherwise, it doesn't look so good.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15862	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15883	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My contribution also refers to the agreement to avoid double taxation. And although I would like to prove that we must not underestimate how strong the economic links between Austria and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region are indeed the People's Republic of China. In the last three years, exports from Austria have averaged € 454 million per year and imports amounted to € 138 million. And what surprised me very much, I didn't know: There are an estimated 600 companies of Austrian companies located in Hong Kong. I would like to thank Mr Bruno Bilek from the Foreign Office on this occasion, who has provided me with this information. I think it is important to introduce this also here, which I want to show that an agreement to avoid double taxation for our businesses, but also for the location attractiveness of Austria, is very valuable. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Weinzinger, who has come out of my constituency, for the fact that, although we have often been politically far apart, not always, but often, we have always lived a personal appreciation that we really need to stress, namely you and I, to you. I thank you for that. There's never been any personal injuries. For the future, I wish you what you have not been able to do, and that you are doing well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15917	Mr Mag. Haider is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15940	Madam President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! We will not agree to this agreement with the USA, because we consider American claims for damages extremely critical. For example, the financial crisis caused in the USA has also caused considerable damage to Austria. We cannot gain anything positive from this state agreement. Then: He also does not provide for compensation for the injured in Austria. This Treaty does not justify a legal obligation to divide the proceeds – I am now addressing the issue of “receipts from crime”. We can therefore not obtain anything positive from this agreement, as has been said. It is always the same approach: The Americans want something, and we Europeans are overstepping us to implement it immediately. Whether we can benefit from it, nobody is interested at all. I just remember Basel I and Basel II. And now Basel III is still coming. This is also a wonderful example: As the Americans wanted to have a global regime for the equity of the banks, and in Europe and Asia it was implemented, with the result that the loans have become enormously expensive and that our banks have a blatant competitive disadvantage against the American banks, for they have been exempted from whether they join this Basel agreement or not. Or another example: the SWIFT agreement. This is about account data and account movements of EU citizens, i.e. rather sensitive data. These will be sent to America in order to be able to fight terrorism, but although the EU Parliament has expressed serious concerns about the long storage of the data and also about the fact that these data can be accessed without suspicion and without judicial permission, it has nevertheless been decided upon pressure from the Americans. This reflective behavior towards the Americans simply does not find our approval. We shall therefore reject this agreement. The second agreement, the double taxation agreement, has already been adopted by Mr Lutz Weinzingerohnhinh. We will not agree to this agreement either, and not because we are against double taxation agreements, no, we are not, but because this victim of the Austrian banking secret on the altar of Brussels does not get our approval, especially since the only counter-service we have seen on television for this victim of banking secrecy was that our Minister of Finance has been shrouded by the German Minister of Finance. I hope it was nice and he liked it, but we didn't do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e15980	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16002	Mr Haider is quite right in considering what he is doing in principle and who always find their practical form. SWIFT is a very dramatic example of why we really wonder why European states as individual states, but also in their form as a union in the Union, where we want to think – and that was always the argument – that they are stronger within the Union. If Parliament had not been rear-footed at the time, we would have had even worse rules in terms of SWIFT. It is also true of the story with regard to the banking directives on Basel I, Basel II and Basel III, because it was striking that the Americans were in fact have not been implemented. That's where you really touch your head! That's all right. There are other examples of this. It is very ambivalent how we have to assess the documents when it comes to what our banks are doing in Eastern Europe. We have experienced all kinds of things in the Banking Committee. It is true that the government has not behaved properly in the transmission of the files. But the files or the documents that it was about there were already interesting. They have obviously been from the American intelligence service, which has already looked at the fact that other economic units, especially in Ukraine or elsewhere, cannot expand in such a way. This has fit us in, because we have once seen the business practices, provided that the records have voted there, but that is already striking, I give you absolutely right. Nevertheless, it is true that what is available must be checked in individual cases. And in this case, I would think that first of all the objective is perfectly right and second, I would also like to make a contribution to the fight against crime. In this case, the way does not go about the Union. It has always been your group's concern that we are giving up too much, but that is a bilateral agreement, where you can make a lot of things yourself. I believe that what is admitted to it is only right and cheap, measured by the objective being pursued here – and the aim is to fight crime. The Americans, of course, have in mind the so-called fight against terrorism. But it is also true. One thing has to be said – and I know that we have different views regarding banking secrecy – that it cannot be that protection provisions that are there to protect the famous small citizens et cetera are always misused where major crimes take place. That's where you have to make a balance. And that's more often. That is why we agree with this proposal. This applies equally to the provisions on the tax agreement, because we also believe that it would be useful, so to speak, to disarm a little as far as all these protection provisions are concerned, because this is always being misused, by the great Gauners, while we always want to protect the little ones, and this does not work together. That's so simple. Mr Weinzinger, I did not understand what you wanted to say to us with the flow of speech. I can only say: In the Committee, in particular in the Financial Committee, where, so to speak, few ideological issues were on the agenda, it has always been refreshing to hear the contributions from practice. I would like to make that clear. Here, of course, we have very different views on the larger issues. I didn't want to hide that your argumentation and expression there on the one hand really testified that you had clearly understood something about matter because of your profession, and on the other hand you still spoke quite normally. That is not always a matter of course either. Finally, another appeal, because life continues: I do not think it was such a problem when we said in the Financial Committee on Collegiate Members. So that's all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16060	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16083	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the Agreement between Austria and the USA on the distribution of recovered proceeds from crime is to establish a legal framework for the sharing of assets over €10 000 subject to the decay, collection, levying of the enrichment or execution of an asset arrangement of the other Party. This addition to the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, which has been in place since 1955, is intended to provide Austria with a legal basis directly applicable to the distribution of such assets with the United States of America. The Agreement does not provide for an obligation to share assets. In addition, the Republic of Austria's obligations to Member States of the European Union or the Union themselves shall apply to this Agreement. As can be seen from the explanations, criminals have often tried to move the proceeds from their criminal acts to and from the other state. Since the effectiveness of international cooperation in the fight against crime and money laundering is of the utmost importance, the extension of the agreement will undoubtedly help to reduce the cost of crime in the future. It also prevents the use of criminal wealth to finance further criminal activities. I think we should support an addition. We'll do it anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16117	Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16138	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Crimes must not be worth it. Therefore, we need to create incentives to ensure criminally acquired assets and also to stagger them. And the Asset Sharing Agreement is an incentive for reconnaissance and, above all, for safeguards in this area. In a relatively short time, no later than next year, there will also be specialised prosecutors who are currently specialized in relieving and safeguarding criminally acquired assets. Then: The more taxes, the more security we have, the better it is for the many victims of economic crime and the better it is, of course, for our budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16171	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the United States of America on the distribution of recovered proceeds from crime, in 869 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 point 1 B-VG to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, in 870 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 point 1 B-VG to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is also adopted by a majority. [[16:37:34]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (873 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Financial Security Act (929 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16229	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Steinhauser. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16256	Ladies and gentlemen! It is not easy to talk about the Financial Security Act when I am a Minister of Justice, Bandion-Ortner, whose proceeds are required in almost all editorials of the Austrian newspapers. [[Call the ÖVP: Stop!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If you don't read it: The most harmless thing that was written is that our Minister of Justice was overwhelmed and would not be a good lawyer. Mr President, I do not want to speculate on whether you are a good lawyer or not, because that is the point that affects me the least, but I want to discuss whether you are a good judicial politician, because you are now a Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Grossruck: What do you want to talk about now?]] And there you have to say: The fact is, since you took office, you have been put into a plowing and panseries from which you cannot recover. [[Abg. Großruck: What are you doing?]] Primaryly, your activity is to justify any misunderstandings or, as you have to say, to speak beautifully. [[Abg. Hornek: You have no idea!]] This was the case, for example, in the summer of 2009 when it came to interventions in delicate political causs. The first step was to go for a traitor rather than deal with the abuses. In autumn 2010, you then had to justify mistakes at the prosecutor's office after you first expressed your opinion that it was all right anyway. And in the summer of 2010, it went further than we discussed the abuses in the pursuit of prominent economic criminal cases. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Talk about things now!]] My Minister of Justice, when I talk to you, sometimes I have the impression that you are already regretting your trip to politics. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Yes, when you talk, you do!]] That's not the terrain either, I think you like to move on. The question is already after the debate about your person has begun, if you do not want to do justice the pleasure of saving her another debate, since the judicial system is already in a restless phase. The last thing you can need now is a Minister of Justice, which is not capable of action and not enforceable. Therefore, I think: Go inside and think about whether you're not taking yourself out of the shooting line! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: Painful!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] On the Financial Security Act: The Financial Security Act is certainly technically flawed by the Ministry of Justice. There is, however, an opinion from the Court of Auditors which should be given some attention. It says: ‘The Court of Auditors does not believe that, in view of the financial crisis and the innovative design of products, in particular in the derivative sector, new financial structures will be created, whose assessment and the risk contained can only be reliably assessed by more designated specialists.’ What is indicated here is that the new uniform framework creates dynamic markets that promote exactly those derivative financial products that are unclear and which have already triggered a crisis. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Financial security has nothing to do with derivative products, Mr. Cot! – That’s unbearable!]] In this context, I also asked you whether you could resolve the Court of Auditors' doubts. You couldn't, but you said, that's where the Ministry of Finance is responsible. Only: With this division of labour, I do not start to make the laws and the Ministry of Finance evaluate that. We know that no progress has been made at European level in regulating financial markets at all. And in the end, I know what the division of work looks like: A few will cause a crisis, and the taxpayer will have to pay them. As long as our concerns are not removed, we will therefore not agree to the Financial Security Act, because we certainly do not support the creation of framework conditions, which will then lead to an economic crisis in the market by dynamizing the market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16417	Mr Mag. Ikrath is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16448	Madam President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen. I have already heard many very bad speeches, but I have now heard the culmination of a Member's incompetence in this House. Incompetently incompetent: [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] With regard to matter, he has not lost a word, derivative products confuse with financial collateral – financial collateral that are cash or credit claims. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Read Court of Auditors opinions!]] He has no idea! It also seems to him to be indifferent, because the Greens do not want to become intergovernmental anyway – which is a happiness for this country. And the other form of Steinhauser’s incompetence proved to be in how he judged and condemned a minister of justice, in a completely absurd way. [[Abg. Brosz: You're a specialist, aren't you?]] And if we in this House wanted to keep up little of the command of fairness together, then Mr Steinhauser has now shown how we can hardly be unfair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: He's just sad...!]] This Minister of Justice has not only presented a first-class law – that has just been confirmed by Mr Steinhauser himself – which will significantly reduce funding for many companies, because they can show more credit quality – in the context of Basel II and Basel III, an important advantage. [[Abg. Brosz: The “Best Minister of Justice of All Times”!]] But this has nothing to do with Derivative trade. The Greens, however, cannot yet agree, but that is the very form of fundamental opposition, which in reality is not very fruitful. She has also set out very important further initiatives, and there are dozens of such initiatives that this Minister of Justice has set up. [[Abg. Brosz:... Majesty policy, if...!]] I bring an example, a recent example: The Minister of Justice has just sent a whole package of opinions to combat economic crime, especially in order to combat corruption, a package of laws which she has responded to the criticism that complex cases of economic crime cannot be followed sufficiently consistently, no arms equality between the prosecutor and the accused, and is now strikingly correcting these shortcomings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Newborn: applause!]] And that deserves approval by us and recognition! But Mr Steinhauser has certainly not been involved for a minute, I suppose, because otherwise he could not go to the pult and have such incompetence. I would like to stress that, of course, the Minister of Justice has our legitimate trust. And I say 'founded' because it has just put in place those initiatives that include enormous improvements in both corporate law and criminal law as well as family law. And that's why she deserves all of our trust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It does not necessarily depend on that of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16578	Mr Dr. Jarolim is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16695	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The matter we are discussing today is not quite complex, I would say. It is also not quite easy to predict from the effects. The reason for this template is somehow elucidating: This is about harmonising the possibilities for collateral to grant rights under an existing recovery system, which is predictable and which is to be carried out throughout Europe, and can therefore also serve to speed up the recovery – which does not necessarily have to be an advantage – but on the other hand also to ensure a cross-border internationalisation of deposit securities, which are now referring to cash assets, tradable securities and loans – now new. This is certainly a step forward in the area of large-scale financing, because, of course, what has so far been contractually defined is now still a legal framework and it is possible to offer actually standardized, ready-to-use insurance products. Where it can become problematic, this is in the field of SMEs. This has actually been and is also our concern: it can lead to SMEs being taken more or less away from the market in a relatively accelerated manner. Why? – Because it is currently the case that collateral, pledge rights, pledge rights granted by SMEs must be used in court. This can also be done privately in the future. It can be done by selling something on the traded market. Of course, it cannot be ensured that this also means that a pressure is being exerted and that the papers are also being played – a certain insider information is always available at the bank, where the recovery can then be controlled accordingly. That is why we will have to look at ourselves with great care and with great care, how banks deal with this increase in instruments, whether this is really very responsible. As I said, Consumers, consumers are not affected here. They are SMEs, and they are those who are currently suffering most of the time. We should therefore pay particular attention here to the fact that the banks do not abuse this instrument, but that it really does come as stated in the statement of reasons for the government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16734	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16755	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is a question of legal harmonization in Europe. This is good, on the one hand, because we say, of course, that the chances of competition for banks should also be the same. There should not be other possibilities in every country. We have already experienced the effects of different banking systems painfully. However, we also share the concerns expressed by Mr Jarolim, but also by Mr Wittmann in the Committee on Justice. There will be a need to observe very carefully so that there is no abuse of SMEs here. SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises: Mr Katzian, you first meant that making this profit might be a bad thing. Making profits is nothing unpleasant! It is much better than to write red numbers in the company. These companies will then be able to pay taxes and also secure jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16786	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16807	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The debate on failure or non-compliance in the judicial area will take place tomorrow; the Federal Minister of Justice already knows. We will also lead the debate on the Rzeszut report to another item on the agenda. Mr Steinhauser, this is the wrong item on the agenda to discuss the issue of the occupation of the judicial body. This template is an unproblematic template. On the contrary: In this context, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the success of the Council's negotiations to ensure that the important area of consumer and small and medium-sized enterprises is taken out of the way that loans cannot be secured by them as debtors, because this is what I consider to be the protection of consumers and the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is a matter of fact that they can best defend themselves. We need to know that there are similar power differences in credit conditions. It is also true that the lender sometimes has a dominant position and the borrower is often handed over to the lender. If he still has to expect his creditor to pass on the debt he has towards him to another, perhaps even more powerful creditor of his creditor, then I think the problem is evident and it is clear that it was reasonable to take out these loans. This is explicitly to be recognized. Overall, I also believe that the system, which is basically just an adjustment to be made in addition to the cash security and financial instruments in the already existing Financial Security Act, is an extension to obtain loans, because we suffer or the economy suffers from the fact that it does not receive loans at the moment, because, in fact, Basel II and now Basel III are suffering the liquidity and liquidity of the economy. That is to say, it is an additional possibility and so decisive that, at least, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and consumers should not be afraid of coming under the wheels as debtors if their creditors continue to submit the claim to an even more powerful creditor. That's reasonable, that makes sense. That is why, I believe, it is also reasonable to agree to this regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16852	Mrs Mag. Hakl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16874	High house! I would also like to express once again, as someone who has worked at court for a longer time, in relatively complex proceedings, to my stranger what the Minister of Justice is accused of in her former role as judge. If in such a huge mammoth procedure, as was the BAWAG process, one gets right from 18 charges in 14 of the General Procuratorate and then as a withdrawal mature and bad, and no idea what is being accused, then that is not only strange, but from my point of view really shocking. If the infallibility of justice is raised to the level of this House, I no longer know whether we need a second and third instance at all. And: Yes, it is perfectly normal and, with no exception, almost every such great procedure, that individual and in this case extremely small, comparatively small accusations also wave and there is another legal view – no more and no less. What is being said here is about the foundations of democracy and the division of violence. And for this House, I feel it is intellectually extremely embarrassing to also advance this theatre in the newspapers, by sharing here, by the resignation of the Minister and the like. This is only one introduction, because I am really deeply affected. If that occurs, then we will really do away with all the court's appeals, because we have the right to have infallible judges. Where are we? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] After a moment of heart has passed and I can thank the Federal Minister for her excellent work at this point, and since I know that the colleagues of the other political groups – no matter what political theater is listed today – are, in fact, largely my opinion, too, I may briefly address the issue in the Financial Security Act on which there are different opinions. While there are some in the House who believe that the exception in particular for individual companies is an advantage for those concerned, I strongly believe that it is a great advantage if claims to individual companies could also be used as collateral by others, such as SMEs. Our SMEs and also other individual entrepreneurs, who usually do not have to be blessed with the greatest liquidity, must also be able to provide claims and other pledge rights in order to obtain a better credit rating. And that is the absolute majority of companies! I think it is important that in the future companies, especially the small ones, not only get a credit when – I bring a very often true example – the grandmother provides three reasons that can still be pledged. As a result, it made much, much more sense, even if claims to small companies could be used as collateral. This is possible in the main lines, the exception is a small wormhead drop. This improves the credit quality of the medium-sized economy and thus the economic location Austria. And that's why I think we're still adopting a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16928	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16949	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, adapting to the Financial Security Directive is quite welcome, because it contributes to the harmonisation of the financial market. This is in itself very welcome for the European Business Area and for the European Capital Area. I also think it is quite reasonable that credit claims can now also be used as collateral. There is no reason why credit claims should not be used in Austria. We are also obliged under the directive to recognise these credit claims as collateral. That is why we are putting this into practice in this law. I also consider the exception for consumers and small businesses to be correct. This is also, in fact, a measure provided for in the Directive. I also think it is right, as Mr Stadler said, that we are making use of this exception. I have only a few concerns, not in the implementation of the directive, but in the further part of this law, which has nothing to do with the implementation of the Directive, namely that recovery towards individual companies and even legal persons, if on the other hand a bank or a credit company is present, can now be accelerated and simplified. This can lead to a pressure on the small business or the micro-enterprise in individual cases. I believe that this simplification of exploitation, especially in securities securities, is problematic, and I think it is necessary to keep in mind whether it results in misuses in small and medium-sized enterprises – this has nothing to do with the implementation of the directive, which has to do with practice. We will be very careful about how the practice will be in the banks and how the handling of this accelerated right of recovery will then take place with the banks. Nevertheless, in general, it is a law that is quite positive. This small detail area will have to be observed in practice, whether it will lead to disadvantages for small businesses. But I think we are not all interested in putting up with any disadvantages here, but at the end of the day to act if that is the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e16992	Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher is now speaking with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17013	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The amendment of the Financial Security Act is a necessary directive. It is necessary to extend the scope to credit claims. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] However, the fact that has already been addressed several times brings me to think, namely the extension of the personal scope to individual companies, legal societies and personal societies, when on the other hand there is a professional financial market participant. Who are the individual companies and individual companies? – These are SMEs. You have to look at the situation. I know the arguments are that we reduce transfer costs, that we are the only EU country where this personal scope would not be extended. One has to keep an eye on the situation and observe how it will be in the future. For the current discussion, I would like to make a point on the anti-corruption public prosecutorship and its introduction. Minister of Justice, I welcome the initiative you have put in place. I believe that we all agree that it is important that the prosecutors are well-trained that they have sufficient competence to pursue such large-scale economic procedures. In this discussion, however, it should not be ignored that lawyers are often withdrawn from proceedings or removed from proceedings for other reasons. It is important, therefore, that we ensure that economic procedures, in which Zig thousands of pages have to be reworked by a new prosecutor or new prosecutor, are brought to an efficient and rapid end. If we are constantly shifting or a new a prosecutor or a new prosecutor in the proceedings, these proceedings will be unnecessarily extended. In my opinion, it must be our top priority, as you have already referred to in the introduction of the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, to ensure that within the public prosecutor's office a certain leadership competence is ensured that the prosecutors remain in the proceedings or that the proceedings will be carried out and brought to an end as quickly and efficiently as possible when a prosecutor stops himself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17055	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17077	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all: Mr Steinhauser, why are you so aggressive, I wonder. We have always had a very good conversation basis. I'll figure this out. Now the Financial Security Act, which is to be adopted under this item on the agenda. It can now also be financial collateral, but not if the debtor is a consumer or an SME. Why? – Because these people, these groups, are to be protected from particularly aggressive methods of collection. However, in order to avoid the competitive disadvantage, the law provides for an extension of the personal scope of application to legal persons, individuals and individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is in line with the European standard. Mr Mag. Steinhauser, if you say that fear is that in the future there will be financial products that are very complicated, I can only say: Yeah, that's right, but I'd like to explain this to you together with my house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17114	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 929 of the supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. If you agree in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority and was therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:05:20]] 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (867 d.a._Other Organiser Convention on the Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in the field of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children of 19 June 1990 October 1996 (930 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17177	We come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17202	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a few words about the attacks and calls made by Mr Steinhauser and perhaps others in the public against the Minister of the Federal Government. From my point of view, it is immeasurable, not at all comprehensible, and not understandable that, on the one hand, the professional activity of the Federal Minister as a judge and, on the other hand, her current political function in one, as I have said, are not at all comprehensible and, in my view, not justifiable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That does not mean that one cannot discuss this judgment. This judgment is, moreover, largely considered correct by the Financial Procuratorship – as the Supreme Court will see, we will still experience. But this has nothing to do with the political activity of the Minister for Justice Bandion-Ortner. The successes that have been recorded over the last one and a half years could also be discussed for a very long and very wide time, and this would also be paid off. I therefore call on you to return to an objective discussion. Let us discuss the issues of justice here, the debate on the previous vocational activity belongs elsewhere. I do not know what you, Mr Steinhauser, have done in all the right or wrong in your professional activity outside of your parliamentary office, but I would never ask you to resign because a mistake has occurred somewhere else in a professional activity. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At this item on the agenda, we will discuss the Government document: Conventions on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in the field of parental responsibility and measures to protect children. It is a very important agreement to ensure that there are clear responsibilities and a clear choice of law, especially in the area of the protection of minors, as well as in the care of minors, so that it is clear to everyone which law is applicable and which authorities are responsible. This is very important when it comes to protecting children when it comes to the interests of children when it comes to care and similar issues. This is covered by this Convention. It is clear that the child's normal residence is essential, including for the authority responsible. It is clear that the right of this ordinary stay must be applied. And it is also regulated in the Convention – I believe that this is particularly important – which happens when minors are unlawfully transferred from one Contracting State to another, namely that the law of the State in which the ordinary residence was established is still applicable, so that the unlawful movement of minors, which unfortunately also occurs – also among relatives, by parents – has no influence on the authority competence and the choice of law to be applied there. I think it is right for us to adopt this agreement together, so that it is applicable in Austria. I would like to come to the other point, which is being discussed here, on the request of the BZÖ concerning alliances for increased child protection against sexual assaults. For this we are also, for child protection against sexual assaults, proof of this also in our daily work, not only by means of motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you're voting against it!]] In this context, for example, I should like to refer to the anti-violence law introduced by Mr Jarolim and myself, which has been developed by the Ministry of Justice and has been in force for a little over a year. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Ing. Westenthal]] It includes, for example, my dear Ladies and gentlemen, very probably the extension of the criminal framework, but also other important measures, namely a sexual criminal offence file, information, a professional ban, the extension of limitation and eradication periods. All of this is included in this package of anti-violence. We are also ready – this is reflected in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Stadler, which we have jointly adopted on Cyber Grooming, on the establishment of sexual contacts with minors, as appropriate rules are to be established. There is no need to discuss this, the protection of children against sexual assaults is a very important point. In this context, the problem will not be solved over and over again by simply extending the criminal framework. There is a need for a large number of measures, and we have put in place these measures with the package of violence. We will continue to do so. I believe that this is the right way: to take effective action instead of just making demands! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17253	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17275	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the restricted title of the Convention – the title was named by Mr President and by my previous speaker – and the fact that the State Treaty does not contain any material regulations, it represents, I believe, a very important progress for children from binational relations. It is also important to me, as has already been said, that the children living and affected in Austria are in practice, that Austrian law is applied, that our authorities are responsible and not the legal system of the country, that children are then brought to. It should nevertheless be noted that the EU is required on this issue, since almost only European countries have acceded to the Convention. Of the non-European countries, only Australia, Morocco and Armenia have joined. We therefore find ourselves very difficult in practice when relationships break up and a partner comes from a non-European country and this parent takes children with him against the will of the other partner in his home country and then the law of the respective country is applied there, while not respecting the rights of children of course, namely the Hague Minor Protection Agreement, which has not proved itself particularly successful and is therefore replaced by this Treaty. This contract constitutes a paradigm change in the legal system. In the future, the authorities of the State in which the child has his or her normal residence are responsible. A special example is Italy. If a child lived with his mother in Italy, became ill and – before signing the contract – had to go to the hospital – in Italy, the common care, including non-married partners, it was very difficult for the doctors to find the other parent, in this case the father, and get the consent of a future treatment. This is regulated now. After the child lives in Austria, our legal system applies, and the mother can discuss this with the doctor. In this context, I would also like to say the following: It shows just how difficult the common care is. My group, if the common care is not voluntarily closed between the parents, will certainly not give consent to a mandatory common care. Overall, this agreement is an important step forward for child protection rights and, of course, it is also supported by my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17320	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17341	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First to the Child Convention. In principle, there is also our support for this. This is a major improvement in relation to what has previously prevailed in international law. But there is a wormhead drop: The recognition and enforcement of protective measures is now much stronger. That is, Austria is also committed to recognizing decisions from legal systems that we may not like or that we do not see as the rule of law in our sense. Although we have made a number of reservations about the Convention, I do not think they are going very far. We must therefore be aware: We now have to recognise to a much greater extent than before decisions from legal systems that may be available for sale. Now on the second point, on the motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This really surprised me, because Mr Bucher is still talking about the BZÖ being a liberal party. There is an incontrovertible concern of the protection of victims in the abuse of minors, but there is also a – for me – incontrovertible concern to maintain the rule of law. And there was a request for implementation that would put the rule of law on the head. Especially in the case of crimes such as the abuses, where we already have extremely long periods of limitation, are rightly limited in time, where the limitation usually begins only at all with the maturity of demanding a complete abolition of the deadlines, is grotesque, because, with all the protection of the victims, of course, we must also have the protection of the innocent accused in mind, because a substantial part of our legal order is the protection of the innocent accused – and that is not the perpetrator! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The protection of the perpetrator!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The culprit!]] The Innocent The accused is not a perpetrator, but one who comes into the mills of the law. And especially in this circle of crimes, there is an enormous number of misconceptions or proceedings that are conducted for a long time, often even with convictions, end with long prison sentences, and that are then rolled up again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Good thing we're different!]] So to say that even after 50 or 60 years, when no one can run a reasonable trial anymore, it should be possible to prosecute things, I think, is absurd and really question the rule of law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are in a legal matter, where in many cases psychologists or traumatologists decide how the procedure goes out. We are in very many cases faced with the problem that the perpetrator or alleged perpetrator did not know anything and did nothing and the victim, or often alleged victims at an age of 30 or 35, filed accusations of facts that were past 25 years. We are there in a zone where the rule of law is at its borders, where there is hardly any evidence except for a psychological opinion. For example, the abolition of § 207 StGB is completely incomprehensible. It is called on to drop the classification of the crime problem. It's supposed to be all the same if someone was supposed to stroke someone while showering – I remember a well-known case – or someone was sleeping with him. These are things that are completely different in weighting. And, of course, a criminal order, which has a little bit to do with it, needs to be differentiated with regard to the severity of offences and hence also the punishment of offences. The latter is the desire not to make conditional criminal forbearance and no conditional dismissal for sexual offences. That's something completely different. The resulting release has nothing to do with the protection of victims and nothing to do with the level of punishment, but is a measure after a fine imposed because someone has behaved well in execution. If a person is dangerous if he can no longer be released to the public, then he has to be transferred to action anyway, then he has to do otherwise anyway. But if a person is treated and sentenced without taking action, there must, of course, be the opportunity to get out of the way in which he or she behaves like anyone else. That is why this motion is completely incomprehensible and almost a blow to the face of the most profound beliefs of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17440	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17461	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about the bizarre appearance of Mr Ikrath, who has been talking about incompetence here, and about you, Mrs Justice Minister, who has offered me here to explain to me financial products. I would like to point out: At the previous item on the agenda, I mentioned twice the criticism of the Court of Auditors – once today, once in the Committee. Both times you were unable to contribute anything reasonable. So don't say you can explain financial products if you can't even explain your law. And Mr Ikrath should not talk about incompetence, if he is obviously unable to respond to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The “Mr. Klug ”!]] The second point: If you're supposed to be in politics for even longer – we'll see that, it's not finally decided where you're going to go – then you'll have to learn that criticism and the preservation of failures are nothing to do with "aggression", as you think, but are part of democratic culture as long as it's not personally injurious. Personally, I didn't hurt you; if you feel personally hurt, then they tell me, then I'm going to deal with it with myself critically. – You will not succeed, because I am proud, unlike other colleagues, that I have not received a single call for order in this House in three years’ time. So, you won't succeed, you'll have to get used to criticism. I'm afraid the criticism of you will not tear off either. To this Convention: The Convention on Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in the field of parental responsibility and measures to protect children is an important issue. Mobility is increasing, so cross-border regulations are needed. The number of bilateral relations is also increasing, i.e. it makes sense that there are clear rules of play. However, the issue of child protection is not only discussed in this Convention, which is beyond dispute, but also in the case of a request from the BZÖ. This is a little bit the “Best of BZÖ”, which the BZÖ has always demanded and will demand again and again. – I can only say: You can demand it more often, so it will not become more correct either. Maybe you mean it well and it's not just white populism, but at one point you can read it: They called for a doubling of the criminal framework in the case of sexual offences one or two years ago; the Minister of Justice knows it. We have then reformed this, in some areas the criminal frameworks have been raised. – That doesn’t matter to BZÖ, it is again called for doubling. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... the EU...!]] How high the penal frameworks are is meated, main thing, they are doubled. – This is your policy: This is holding populism beyond the question, which actually helps! Because we already have to find one thing: We have nothing to do with the doubling of the criminal frameworks alone. We know that the potential perpetrators cannot be deterred at all by criminal frameworks. Or do you believe that a potential criminal says: Now, where the colleague Westenthaler Rambazamba is doing, I will consider the sexual offence!? – It's not like that! They must be appropriate, and we have discussed this very carefully, and that is why the Greens have also agreed to increase the penalties framework. The question is why the BZÖ always speaks only over 10 percent of the sexual offenders. – I'm interested in 90 percent of the others. They're always talking about the 10 percent you're going to have, but the real problem is the 90 percent that make up the dark figures that are completely unharmed in their cruel crimes. There is nothing to be found in this request. Prevention, detachment of sexual offenders: Missing! With you, the effect is in the foreground. We want to take this issue seriously, so we have also had an understanding of this 'cyber-grooming' motion for a resolution, which is here, because we believe that we really have to look at it – not because this is the immediate demand for total hardness, but because it is an opportunity to work with perpetrators who have not yet committed their crime, who have already been able to find out at the start-up stage, so that they can react as a state and perhaps prevent worse. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17517	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17541	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Yes, Mr Steinhauser, the populist European Union, if you call it populist that it is called for a doubling of the criminal frameworks, I believe that a few days ago at the Council of the EU – the Minister was present in person – in part such a high criminal framework that there is a doubling in Austria. This is actually the scandal: that we do not do this in our country, but that the European Union must go here and say: Wait, there is a need for action, the so populist European Union. Finally, this is an example in which the European Union can be positively quoted. In general, she said: There's something you have to do, that's too mild! There must be something to be done in the criminal framework! – In some areas, this would in fact lead to a massive extension of the criminal frameworks to doubling compared to the Austrian legislation. Not the populist BZÖ says that, the populist EU, Mr Steinhauser! But even more interesting for me today was Mr Hübner, who has gone here and has suddenly adopted himself of the fundamental principles of the FPÖ over the last 20, 30 years, because these are the content of the applications which you all have already brought together here in this House, and that you, Mr Hübner, in particular, your party is now with a swivel now to the hustle and bustle of all other parliamentary parties, namely: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan]] First of all, let us worry about the punishment of perpetrators! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] That's what it was. Your current replica here! He's worried about the perpetrators. It could be that there might be someone there who comes innocently to the handcushion. – But do you know what I prefer? – That no victims come to the handcushion innocently! We are concerned with the victims, the children who are abused, and not the perpetrators, as is the case with you. [[OBJECTIVES]] And now I'm coming to a current event. One thing was interesting: Hübner and Steinhauser in the same tone on this topic: It is necessary to make possible the implementation of measures. – It is clear that criminal offenders, sexual offenders who have suffered from children, can be released in advance, because they are in the execution of measures anyway! 30. September 2010, Vienna, Landesgericht: Condemning a sexual criminal – once again – to 12 years in prison. This man has been sentenced to 20 years in prison within the last decades, it must be said, all in all, all together, in several steps: once six years, once four years, once eight years, once two years, because he has passed several times on children. Then the following happened: In 2006, the six-year sentence at that time had been cancelled, and it was implemented, that is to say, in an institution for dangerous offenders. A short time later, the psychiatrist came and examined him. And the psychiatrist came to the conclusion that this man no longer assumes any danger. The risk, he diagnoses, would be ‘completely reduced’. And he says in his opinion – I quote –: “A ‘unavoidable residual risk’ should be ‘abstained’ by means of probation, a job and therapeutic treatment,” says the Lord. On the basis of this expertise, the man is on the 31st. This measure was released on 1 March 2009. As you have said, a certain period of imprisonment, then the execution of measures, and if he is in order, he will be released. Only four weeks – whole four weeks! – it took several seven to nine-year-old boys and girls after being released in 2009, so he was set on a free footing until he had passed several times within a short period of time and had returned to the judge. - That's your action. And now I'm telling you something: If this man, as we call for, had been locked away for life and never returned to life, then there would be no such new victims and we would not have to complain about the suffering of these children, Mr. Hübner and Mrs. Minister of Justice. That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am glad – I am very, very happy about it – that there was a courageous judge who finally, when condemning this man, at least once for another twelve years – I hope that this element can never again sniff the air of freedom – said the sentence – I quote the judge when the man sat in front of him –: “The only way is to lock you away for as long as possible. This is the only way to protect the children from you.”” Thank you, Mr Rat! That's our line. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These people are forever locked up and left out on the children, ladies and gentlemen! But then, Mr Hübner, and you, Mr Steinhauser, come out and talk about the execution of measures and the poor suspects: [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stefan and Mag. Steinhauser]] It could have been one of the innocent ones, too. – That is really incredible, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! We have a legislation here in this country, which is actually carrying out a latent ejaculation of child abuses – a latent outpouring! [[Abg. May. Stefan:... Time limits!]] Let us also look at one more detail: How high are the penal frameworks that we want to double? We want not only to double them, namely all the criminal frameworks that exist in the case of crimes against children, but also to introduce a minimum penalty of at least ten years, and in serious cases, truly life-long penalties. Mr Hübner, this has always been a central requirement of the liberals, and we must not forget that. [[Abg. May. Stefan: But we are talking about limitation periods!]] Let us look at – I tell you now – how it is with §§ 206 and 207 StGB, because we have a different approach, a different point of view! If we have a section “Sexual Abuse of Unmistakables” and another section “Serious Sexual Abuse of Unmistakables”, we believe that it would be a signal to say an open signal that sexual abuse of unmistakables is basically always difficult. There is no slight and normal abuse of unmistakables, there is only severe abuse. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This offence is basically difficult, so you should put together both paragraphs and also set the higher level of punishment accordingly. Or if I regret this – I say it every time, Mrs Minister, you do not want to take note of it – § 92 StGB look at it, “Qualification or neglecting unmistakable, younger or defenseless persons”: Do you know what the highest penalty is, the quelling of the unmistakable to the death – until death?- Oh, my God! – Maximum penalty: ten years, not life-long. Not more than ten years! Madam Minister, I expect you to look at these paragraphs. Perhaps you need to do this now within the meaning of the EU Directive, which you have discussed, and not just wait for a future change of the law, perhaps take this as an occasion and say: Yes, I am now introducing an appropriate legislative initiative in the coming weeks, in which the criminal frameworks are intensified and with which we make it clear: that murder of child souls is equated with physical murder and is also suspected accordingly in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – That’s what we demand of you! Finally, we demand something from you, Mrs. Minister. We are very grateful to you – and this must also be mentioned in praise – that you are the first minister who gives us an insight into how the arrests in Austria are so and how the early arrests are so that thousands of criminals, yes, even serious criminals, are simply released every year. I will not now refer to the general part because we are in child protection, but only to that of child abusers and sexual offenders. Ms. Minister, in your own response to the question, please tell us that due to the detention package from 2008 to 2010, that is, in two years, 309 sexual offenders have been released early. And, behold, 29 of them have fallen away. 29 They have fallen back, and not in one act, but in most cases there are several acts with which these elements of children have perished, several unmistakable ones. 29 Retirers as a result of the detention package of the Minister of Justice of the Socialist Minister of Justice, Berger, which entered into force in 2008. 29 and many more victims: Families, relatives, friends, participants. – We could have saved this if this detention package, as we have demanded, had not entered into force at all, Mrs Minister. That's the demand! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we are telling you, Mrs Minister, that: I expressly ask you to end these arrests at least in the case of sexual offenders – if I am thinking of all, but at least in the case of sexual offenders – now. No premature redundancies for sexual offenders! The Germans have put it before you in these hours, because they have now taken a decision that sexual offenders in particular cannot be held in a situation where there can be no more custody of normal detention – in which it is said to be a little different –. In fact, it does not mean that anyone who has suffered sexual punishment to children who have committed it comes free, but who has to expect to be either sitting behind bars for life or at least being observed for life, must have the consequences for a child and a family for a lifetime injury and a lifelong injury to their souls. He's supposed to pay for it for his life. This is justice in a rule of law like Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17679	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17701	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is undoubtedly one of the most important tasks of the State to protect the weakest members in society in particular, and undoubtedly The children do not belong to it. – I think we in Austria can already say that we are well placed in terms of child protection. Mr Westenthaler, as much as your concerns may be or may be justified, about the dark figures that Mr Steinhauser spoke about – these 90 percent that are not reached – I am much more concerned. In this respect, we have no answers, as you also have no answers. And I think that's why we need to take a much more intense look. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is precisely today, I believe, that we are taking a good step because we are preparing a legal matter, which, after all, repeatedly provides for difficulties or delays in the case law, namely by clarifying the jurisdiction of double-citizens accordingly. With this international agreement, we regulate the competence of the authorities, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of measures as well as the measures to protect the person and the assets of children. With this, I believe, really stops a children's down and down, because this is clearly regulated and will certainly work. The most important point for me is undoubtedly the one that will be the responsibility of the country in which the child has his normal residence and therefore, in my opinion, is also best aware of the interests of the child. Child protection will never be completed, will always have to be developed further, but I believe that we are taking a good and important step in improving it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17752	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17773	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Children and young people need our protection, they need our protection, we adults need to give it to the children. You have the right to protection, and I think it is important and necessary. And sexual abuse, ladies and gentlemen, abuse of children is to be prevented and combat by all means, and above all to fight at the root. Essential protection measures, protection mechanisms and legal regulations have already been implemented in the first and second violent protection package, and, as mentioned today, a new EU directive is in place, which is mainly concerned with measures against sexual exploitation of children and young people, which is certainly also a new need for changes in criminal law in Austria. This also concerns the hidden contact of pedophile perpetrators to victims over the Internet, and this should also be punishable in the future. That is why we will also vote in favour of Mr Stadler's resolution, because I believe that these activities are particularly perfid and very dangerous for young people moving on the Internet. Three more comments, ladies and gentlemen. First: The debate on a general obligation to advertise is being held again and again when it comes to children being exposed to abuse. On-site experts, such as the staff of the Child Protection Centre in Amstetten, tell me again and again how big the problem of the general obligation to display is for victims, because quick and unprepared ads burden the victims very much. They need time, they need time. They need resistance to be able to object to the investigation and criminal proceedings and to be prepared to do so. We must weigh what is reasonable to those concerned! Second comment: It is also important to me to see the possibility of cross-system cooperation between the authorities involved, the personal civil service of the persons acting and careful planning of the aid possibilities, not the rapid shots. The condition for these measures is the adequate funding of the various institutions offering protection, support and assistance to children and young people. We must continue to be strengthened in prevention. Children need to be strengthened, children must be vigilant and children should be allowed to say no. Fear, ladies and gentlemen, must be taken because fear weakens and makes helpless. Last comment, ladies and gentlemen: The most effective way to combat abuse is to have a high level of persecution, so if you catch the perpetrators. The high criminal framework does not prevent anyone from committing this kind of abuse, especially this terrible abuse of children. In other words, a combination of punishments and care offerings for the child’s children is another step against abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! We're on the right track. Many measures to protect children and young people have already been taken and follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17829	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17850	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, Mr Hübner: I am a little surprised at the criticism of our request. Firstly, there are substantial parts of it, in fact, of ancient FPÖ requirements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] Essential parts! Secondly, your group in the Committee on Justice did not make any syllables of criticism of this request, not a proposal for amendment, but an amendment. So what now? Is Hannes Hübner isolated in the Group now, or what? None of the Members who were sitting in the Committee on Justice have had any significant objection. Mrs Binder-Maier von der SPÖ has at least had a factual objection. The Greens have also had an objection to which I am still going in. But the FPÖ has agreed, I have now left it to be controlled. Of course, because you've recognized it, of course, and because it's also right. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot understand the criticism of Mr Steinhauser when he says that it is not a deterrent to impose higher penalties, but at the same time he says that he wants appropriate penalties. Then appropriate penalties are at least less dissuasive if higher penalties are not to be dissuasive. So what now? There has been a failure, one will not punish any more if it has no dissuasive effect at all. That's absurd! Therefore, we believe that, of course, higher penalties have a dissuasive character, have a general preventive effect, and we also believe that, in this area of crime, it is necessary to take sharp action, up to electronic surveillance and up to the sexual offence file, because – the case of Mr. Westenthal, and also the statements of Mr. Hübner, the perpetrator, here, has a different driving force from that of other criminals in other criminal offences. In reality, this is not comparable to other types of crime. That's one. The second is: If Mr Steinhauser and now the colleague of the ÖVP complain, it is about this 90 percent area of actions that are not discovered... – No, I do not care at all, but then I do not understand why the Greens and the Blacks in the Committee say – Mr Binder-Maier has even explicitly said that this is the main reason why she cannot agree to this – they reject a general obligation to display sexual offences against minors, as we demand. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: You don't care?]] It really doesn't fit in now. When you say, We want to finally discover the undiscovered crimes, that is our main concern!, and at the same time one refuses that crimes discovered by doctors and medical personnel should be prosecuted, so one considers that there should be no obligation to display these cases, then this is simply and simply a no longer inconspicuous contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now one last point on this whole grudging approach in connection with our request to punish ‘cyber grooming’. It would lead too far to re-establish the debate from the Committee on Justice. The ÖVP states that it cannot go along because the text states that we demand the “fastest” presentation of a bill. By the way, we have demanded exactly that – Mrs Federal Minister, now I have to call you a witness – and that is to say, what the Federal Minister has previously asked for in the "standard". Thus, the EIA has said that it cannot agree to this because it stands in it “as quickly as possible”. In the next debate – and I am still coming back to this day – in connection with the cost of copying, it has not at once had any objection against “fastest possible” at all. Why? – Because the ÖVP itself invented “as fast as possible”. But what ÖVP has overlooked, ladies and gentlemen, is – I have to You are now warning, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the title of this request speaks of the “so-called introduction of a criminal offence against ‘Cyber-Grooming’”. This has probably overlooked your own group that although “swiftly as possible” has been deleted, “as soon as possible” has remained in the title. “Sofortig” is even harder than “fastest possible”, Mrs Bundesminister. So there is nothing left for you but to actually act here with a corresponding acceleration. One last point, ladies and gentlemen, which unfortunately will not go out because of the speaking time. Mr President, I do not know how much speaking time I have left, but I use all 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17900	Still 15 minutes 33 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e17915	Wonderful! Then I come to speak in one case, which is really my heart. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, he is really at my heart, and I would advise you all to deal with this case if you really have the protection of children in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a daily process that the former President of the Supreme Court, one of the most experienced criminal lawyers in this country, Dr. Johann Rzeszut, sends a 25-page report to the club members of all the parties represented in Parliament, in which he is very brief, as the special commission of the public prosecutor Vienna in the case of Kampusch has dragged everything away, and what dramatic consequences it had for the decisive and for the investigating police officers, namely, Mr. Colonel Franz Kröll from Styria, who took his life because of guilt in connection with these sluggish investigations. That doesn't write anyone, it's not a crazy man, it's the former President of the Supreme Court Dr. Johann Rzeszut, who doesn't know what he's talking about and writing about, but a man who, after more than 40 years of activity in the field of criminal justice, knows exactly what he's talking about. Dr. Rzeszut is also a former member of the Constitutional Convention and has been involved in this case together with President Adamovich, who has also heard the evaluation commission, as did President Rzeszut. Ladies and gentlemen, I advise you all to read this report. I do not know how many Members of this House have read this report, but he has at least gone to all the club members of this House. This report stems from the most serious accusations – and this is only the tip of the iceberg, I know from a conversation with Dr. Rzeszut himself – against the members of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, from the lead prosecutor Pleischl downwards, whose right hand was the prosecutor Nittel, precisely in connection with the investigations in this case, which in turn had a particularly close relationship with the Kampusch-Anwalt Dr. Lansky, and that goes back many years. I recommend to everyone the study of a protocol already presented by me of a meeting at Lansky law firm, where she – Nittel – discussed together with Mr Jarolim, among other things, at the time, how Austria's case law, which brings Austrian law enforcement more under red influence. A scandalous protocol! If you want, I'd also like to present it. With shame, it is reported that it is actually pointless to conduct a study on the party membership of judges because judges still renitely refuse to accept party books. Of course, the Red Party book was first and foremost thought of. I don't want to do this any more. I just want to say that a significant part of these members of the Special Commission are clearly associated with the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office. However, the summit was that one immediately took action against President Adamovich – there is now a procedure already in place in the instance – and the judge who has conducted this trial and has condemned President Adamovich at first instance, by chance, the daughter – and this is a real coincidence, only if she had to see a state of partiality in it – is one of the prosecutors who sat in this Commission, ladies and gentlemen. You see, this is a real coincidence, but Mrs. Rat should have known whose daughter she is. She then took into account in the statement of judgment what her father has always said, namely that you know worldwide that there is only one culprit and that it is therefore absurd to go from other perpetrators. I recommend all Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of combating sexual abuse of minors is important to read this report. I read it last Sunday, because these are the things I have to do on Sunday. I didn't sleep from Sunday to Monday and immediately contacted Dr. Rzeszut on Monday. Dr. Rzeszut is not talking to anyone. It is a matter of concern to him, Ladies and gentlemen, to discover this incredible scandal, and it is a completely unique process that a President of the Supreme Court is looking for help in a parliament, because he sees no other way to bring light into the dark at all. Dr. Rzeszut writes – and I only quote the final sentence: “In 42 years of justice, I have not experienced anything comparable.” And he sees the only way to clarify the whole thing in a way that he makes use of his right of petition, which is guaranteed in the Constitution, in order to put something in motion in the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! This is a case where it can show how much you have under control of your ministry; we will discuss it tomorrow. I have considerable doubts that you really have your place under control. Tomorrow I will bring some other examples, today I will bring this example, because it shows that it was a serious mistake – I have told the colleague Böhmdorfer again and again – to remove the prosecutor's office completely from the control of the judiciary in the preliminary proceedings. We will have to discuss this sooner or later. And here, in these cases, it is particularly dramatic when it comes to child protection. We will have to discuss this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] – That's right, Mr Maier! It's perfect! I've always been your opinion. I therefore had a hard discussion with Mr Böhmdorfer. And I think today more than ever that it was a serious mistake to take the accompanying judicial control out of the preliminary proceedings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should change that immediately!]] Public prosecutors today can make almost what they want in the preliminary proceedings, especially when it comes to attitudes. Mrs Bundesminister, don't come to me with the stories you already wanted to sell me in committee! Of course, there is some possibility, but in the event of inactivity, there is no way to take action against the prosecutors. There is virtually no way to take action against delay, drag, nagging, looking away. We have seen in the investigative committee that a prosecutor has looked away for so long until a former minister could not be used at all because the story was delayed because he unfortunately overlooked such a thick file convolut in the act. [[Abg. New builder: 150 pages!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem because there is a lack of monitoring by the investigative judge, as we used to be. That's the first one. And the second is, and I think this is a sin against our constitutional dogma: It is simply absurd that the public prosecutorship has been assigned to the state power of the case law in our constitution. That's absurd. The prosecutors ordered this, I know. The prosecutors ordered this because they wanted to withdraw control, especially by the public prosecutors. I fought hard fights because at the time I was in charge of controlling the prosecutor's office. I first had to teach the prosecutors that they were subject to control by a popular attorney at all. If they had once looked at Antoniolli, at Kelsen, at Merkl, they would have insisted that they were, of course, assigned and attributed to the executing state power. You have made it later, in the context of a constitutional novel, which I think is absolutely unfortunate in this point to come under the protection and protection of the state power of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how long it will take for the prosecutors to be deprived of any control at all. I believe that this is a fatal development in the light of the experience we have had in the Committee of Inquiry. I think that this is a fatal development in the light of what I had to explain myself as a popular lawyer. But I think it is almost really dramatic if I get to grips with this report by President Rzeszut. Let me once again recommend this report. He is laborious, he reads himself like a judgment, but all that Dr. Rzeszut writes is on point and note. And he also shows, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, how much Mr Pilz of prosecutors has been instrumentalized against the evaluation commission. For the accusations made by Mr Pilz against the police and against the evaluation committee were in the interests of the ignorants, not in the interest of the detectors, ladies and gentlemen. And that was the big mistake! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today, Mr Pilz should have so much size to go out and say: Yes, I'm sorry, I see that after reading the Rzeszut report, I realize I've beaten the wrong side! [[Call the BZÖ: It's not there!]] – Of course he's not here, I know. – Mr Pilz, at the end of this report, Dr Rzeszut is not mentioned by name but rather quite clearly. The evaluation committee is already holding this out, just, ladies and gentlemen, one should also say if one was working on the wrong side. In my opinion, Dr. Rzeszut is active on the side of the Enlightenment. Mrs Bundesminister, this is a real test stone. In this case, you will be able to prove how much you can lead the judicial system and the judicial system to express it carefully, to serve criminal justice rather than political agitation. I have had my own experiences with political agitations. Mr Westenthaler himself has gained his experience with political agitations. Today, I have given your chief of the cabinet another example of how prosecutors believe that they have to act politically in the house. I myself have now become part of this attempt. I've been “sweeping” myself, ladies and gentlemen. It is only Mr President – the President is, I believe, not there, but I would like to say it from this Rostra – when I see on this occasion that the Constitutional Protection, the State Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism, has here in Parliament an office which is determined against the Member, then the fun stops, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible!]] This is unique if you take out a few central Asian states, so-called reform democracies! I think it unbearable that in this House there is a service of the Ministry of the Interior, which is made out of investigations against Members – and where a prosecutor regrets that a parliamentary employee is not burdening the honourable Member, but is exculpating, ladies and gentlemen! That's where the fun stops! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to ask the President and the President: Can anyone tell me to which space in this house, to which space of the individual parliamentary clubs this institution of the Ministry of the Interior has no key, no access? That would interest me. I'm not interested in what rooms these people have access to. I am interested in the rooms to which they have no access, because I assume that the Ministry of the Interior has the opportunity to come into every room at any time. I did not know until this agreement that there is a service of the Ministry of the Interior here in the house, which serves to take action against Members. I have assumed that there is a State Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism to protect Parliament from terrorism, but not to conduct investigations against Members in the House, ladies and gentlemen. These are the facts. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is no need for me to explain to you that all this has to do with criminal justice, but that is the temptation and even openly manifest activity of state institutions on political abuse, where criminal investigations are used to take action against misguided Members. Ladies and gentlemen! I swear to you – this is a holy oath that I make here, without any pathos: On the other hand, I defend myself with everything I can raise! As long as I'm inside here and as long as I have a voice, I'll sit down against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18073	Ladies and gentlemen. I assume that it is in all our interests when I say that the matter, Mr Magist. Stadler has now been referring to a need for information. A meeting of the Presidents is scheduled for tomorrow evening to fix the dates for the coming months. I am going to urge the President that we will also deal with this issue in terms of the President-in-Office's office. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Spittle out of parliament! No feces in Parliament! We don't need them!]] Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18104	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Stadler! Why the word “swift as possible” has been taken out, you know, I think: In the EU, the issue of cyber-grooming is currently under discussion, and action at EU level will also be taken against it. And we're not going to decide something here before, which may need to be changed afterwards. We want to put in place an EU-compliant measure here. On the topic of child protection: This is an issue that touches us all, that stirs us up and stirs us up and calls for action. Hardly anything in our society is more important than protecting children, giving them security. Children have a legal right to protection: Protection against neglect, sexual exploitation and ever-increasing violence. We have not decided on this request by Bucher, Westenthaler, for well-known reasons, because the second package of violence has done a lot here. Measures have been put in the right direction. By the way: We do not think anything about the abolition of limitation periods in this context either. But a new trap to endanger the child's well-being has opened up on the Internet, especially when it comes to “cyber-Grooming”. We know that 71 percent of 7 to 10 year olds are already using the Internet, 11 to 14 years olds are 93 percent, and up to 18 years olds are already 99 percent. Children use the Internet without their parents' knowledge and are so at risk. I think there is a need for parents and educators to take responsibility and stop it – and of course we, as legislators, too, by taking appropriate legal measures. Now to this Hague Minor Protection Convention: We agree to improved protection of children in the international field, as the previous agreement has repeatedly led to difficulties with the home authorities in the case of double-citizens. We all know that children must be protected, even if there are cross-border relations. The protection of children does not stop at borders and is therefore regulated internationally in this agreement. That's good.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18153	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, Mr President, we support this procedure that the accusations made by Mr Stadler are examined accordingly in the President-in-Office. Another word about Mr Stadler's criticism of the reform of criminal proceedings. We have negotiated this reform for days. We have spoken accordingly, set out our positions and, of course, have also seen the risk that the prosecutors will not be subject to any control. That is why we are pleased, Mrs Federal Minister, when, as you have informed us in the Committee on Justice, the evaluation report on the reform of criminal proceedings will be presented in November. I personally believe that this evaluation report needs to be discussed in all aspects. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing has already been said about the Convention on measures to protect children. It is about the applicable law to be applied in cross-border matters. This benefits children from binational relations, children with migration backgrounds. It is to be welcomed because, in most cases, Austrian law must also be applied in Austria. However, I agree to also refer to a fundamental problem, namely the problem of child pornography on the Internet. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the numbers of the Child Pornography Reporting Point, you will notice the following: If there were 4 094 messages in 2005, in 2006 4 151 reports, there were 5 489 reports in 2009. This is a problem that we have to deal with. This is not only a question of ‘cyber-Grooming’, which is now agreed by the Justice Ministers at European level in the draft directive, but also a lot more. It's about child abuse representations on the Internet. And that's the central question: Delete or lock? One thing has to be said clearly: The deletion is preferable to any block philosophy, because one cannot block such content. They stay on the net, and criminal police surveys don't save anyone. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Not in Austria is the problem, the problem lies on servers in other countries. At this point maybe some numbers of “stopline” to make clear to you the problem: Of the 695 points received at “Stopline” in the first half of the year, 432 servers were in the USA. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like us not only to conclude a contract with the USA in terms of wealth, but also a contract to combat child pornography on the Internet.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18220	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18242	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before that, perhaps a few words on the topic “Cyber-Grooming”. This discussion should be addressed in more detail, in more detail. We have talked about the technical possibilities, but No one has actually mentioned what this is about. In my opinion, this poses a significant danger, especially for young Internet users. “Cyber-Grooming” in the final effect means the conversation in the so-called chat rooms, where the perpetrators, who are mostly men, choose their victims. These are mostly young girls aged 12 to 16 who have family problems at home or who do not cope with the real world and are looking for a way out in the virtual world. Victims are particularly vulnerable to perpetrators who are trying to arouse confidence in the problems of young people who are talking to them. Unfortunately, in many cases, it does not only remain at meetings in the virtual world, but also in the real world, and the victim of his perpetrator is then unprotectedly delivered. You really have to do something about it. This is, of course, difficult – Mr Maier said so too – because the operators of these chat rooms do not necessarily belong to the European Union's closer sphere of influence. Nevertheless, there are already experiences in Germany with search filters and so on and an initiative by the chatroom operators to search for conversations for certain terms and, when filtered, to interrupt immediately and no longer allow a new connection. It is certainly necessary to make the parents more Internet-friendly, which are an important protection instrument for their children in the final effect. In this sense, I think it's important that you do something there. The necessary decisions must be taken with certainty. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[18:06]] [[18:06:52]] The vote will be taken at
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18290	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. First: Vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Convention on the Jurisdiction, Applicable Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in the field of Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children of 19 June 1990 In October 1996, in 867 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. vote on the request, the French language version of this State Treaty in accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG by making it available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Justice. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 931 of the Supplements. I ask for your consent. The resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 123.) [[18:08:10]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18362	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. I call Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18387	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is now a motion for a resolution from my side. I do not understand that this has been rejected by the government parties, by ÖVP and SPÖ, in the judicial committee. The Federal Minister has said that there has already been much improvement and that we continue to do so, but it has not improved a lot. Mrs Bundesminister, it is primarily – and this is also the case in the motion for a resolution, when looking at him – that we are dealing with the use equipment to a sufficient extent with impact protection vests. That is the problem. Larger judicial institutions have an area where all of this is stored, but on the spot, in the individual departments where dangerous situations can occur, this equipment is inadequate. This, of course, is also a very dangerous undertaking for judicial guards who have to carry out their duties there every day. That is why I do not understand the rejection of SPÖ and ÖVP; probably because it is an opposition request, which is always rejected from the outset. But, as has been said, this is enough, and this is unfortunately too little in the judicial institutions of God. Also, some inventory is no longer contemporary. It is already outdated, and there is therefore no adequate protection for judicial staff. This is, I think, very bad, because it costs relatively little money. This would not cause the big budget hole now, but in the direction of security would be very, very much done with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, God did not see this in the committee, and I very much regret this as a staff representative of the Justice Department, I must say. I am already excited about what my subsequent speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP, who are on the list of speakers, will say that I am really excited about what is coming back. Probably do what you always do: They will again thank the judicial guards for their excellent work. They will be beautiful and worthy of everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] These expressions of thanks, Mr Jarolim, are already sounding like persisting paroles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nothing happens. There's no money in the hand either. Putting yourself here and thanking yourself globally for something, that's almost a bit bad, I have to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, I tell you: Listen, I'll tell you! Efficient protective clothing reduces the number of injured officials, injured officials cost money. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I thanked the Minister for meeting your interests! You should thank me for doing this!]] No, I do not thank you, Mr Jarolim, for the various reasons. I experience you again and again in the judicial committee, where you often look like you're allowed to do anything. If you feel attacked, you are the offended liver sausage. That is how I experience you – and I certainly do not thank you for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm just telling you one thing: Every injured official costs the taxpayer a lot of money, and every injured official is too much. This could be prevented by not saving in the wrong place, and that's with this equipment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18457	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18481	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lausch's request for better equipment for judicial guards is quite understandable from his membership in the judicial system. He may also be right to see that there is a certain degree of radicalisation of the prisoners and that this will increase the risk of the guards. I think it seems to everyone we can see that the job of a judicial officer is not necessarily easier. On the one hand, we need hardness and consistency, on the other hand, but also fairness and humanity. Yes, Mr Lausch, we are willing to say thank and recognition to some 3,000 judicial officers, who do their work every day without a great deal of attention, but with great brawl. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's too little!]] But anyway, that's also important. And there is still a lot to be done, Mr President. Of course, what the State as a service provider can do, yes, is to create the best conditions for, on the one hand, the judicial guards to do their job accordingly, but on the other hand, of course, also the inmates are treated properly. First of all, there is the need for sufficient staff to be available. There have been efforts to ensure that staff come from other Federal Offices to the Justice Department. There was no big echo, but after all, from the Ministry of Defence, as I believe, have permanently been transferred to the 100 persons in charge of justice. Finally, it is that, in principle, all plan posts are currently in the judicial guard, so that there is no real problem here. [[Abg. Pendl: Almost everyone!]] . You will certainly be more precise about this, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Pendl: Well, they're almost all anyway!]] Another kind of discharge has only occurred in the last few weeks, with the introduction of the foot shackles. On the one hand, some colleagues are making fun of the fact that this would not work properly. In fact, it is perfectly in the plan. By the end of the year, about 80 to 100 people will be able to make use of this foothold, and this will, of course, lead to a certain relief for the judicial guards. Thirdly, of course, it is essential that the equipment is guaranteed accordingly, but that is precisely what is being provided for. By mid-2011, Mr Lausch, all the detention centres are to be equipped with appropriate seat guard vests, which are also flame-retardant. By the way, there are already a number of prisons equipped with it. Thus, for the safety of the judicial guards, best knowledge and conscience is provided and your application is obsolete. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18548	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18569	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Lausch's request is to be supported by 100 percent. Protective vests must be sufficiently available and should have the best quality. Finally, it is about life and the protection of officials who carry out the state mandate. One has to be aware of that. Subsidy vests – a similar request, Mr colleague, we tabled for the executive about a year ago. For the executive, enough should be done And There is a need to ensure that the Community's economic and social cohesion policy is based on the principle of equal I remember that case here in Vienna in the 18th century. District where a police officer has been deposed. We have already received an answer – as Mr Glaser has now said – that there is sufficient material there. I'll tell you: Nothing's here! Officials buy such material privately and have to invest hundreds of euros for their security. You let the officials believe you're doing something. With a cold handshake, it says: We thank you for your work! If one of the officials has a knife in his back or chest, just watch, but don't do anything. It is all to do that the watchman is well equipped and can do his work properly. Financial resources must be used for this purpose. Avoid hurt – Mr Lausch has rightly mentioned this – only in this way can you save costs! Every injured official causes costs, has to be rehabilitated, has health problems. In the worst case, we have a dead official to report. Training costs a lot of money that would be better invested in protective facilities. I think it's all to do that helps employees. Beautiful words alone are not enough. Conclusion: Staff and staff don't seem to care about you. – Mrs Minister, this is not the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18611	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18633	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I say two or three sentences on this request, something about Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Here!]] Remember the debates in connection with the lawmaking process on StPO reform! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm always there!]] I'm just saying that. For example, you can read what we said, you can read our minority report, but, Mr Stadler, we have worked out it together. As with many experiences in all the committees in which we have been and some, I say, have promoted a lot of things in which we have come up with a lot of things, we have also decided on a five-party request that we make a government reform; a five-party request. I remind all my colleagues that the government reform has been overdue for years. - Just so much for it. Okay, we know what we're talking about. I would just like to say one thing to my previous speaker: His statement would have been appropriate a few years ago – I am not saying who was in the government at that time – that it would have voted with absolute certainty. But if you look at – and I am willing to practice criticism – what has happened in recent years – that is to say, who wants to be bought on equipment for our colleagues in the judiciary, you must say that has never been the case. So if you criticize, at least you should be at the right time to criticize. I just expect this to go on, Mrs. Minister, that this is not now a one-day fly and is therefore over. Of course, every single injured official is too much, no question at all. That we would all wish for much more is not a question either, this applies to all areas, but I think that to do as if the equipment did not exist is not correct and incorrect – with all the understanding of access. I believe that a difficult work is being done here, for us, for the Austrian population. I should like to thank Mrs Minister for the fact that some progress has been made in recent years and the invitation to continue in this direction. I would, of course, like to thank all the members of the Justice Council for their commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18689	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18710	Ladies and gentlemen! The text of the application describes an incident in the judicial centre in which injuries have occurred both to a psychiatrist and to judicial guards. This is not only unfortunate, but it is also understandable that the demand for the necessary equipment is naturally raised. We must also note, however, that not only can the difficult situation be solved by improving the equipment. That's much deeper going. It is not enough to buy a few vests of protection and then believe that the situation in the execution of the sentence has been so relaxed that such a thing can no longer happen. The basic evil has been the same for years: We've got an overburden. We have prisons that are not ideal from the structural circumstances. The size of the detention rooms does not fit. The psychiatric care does not fit. The support of contact with relatives doesn't really work, the contacts tear off. – All these are factors that contribute to the fact that the prisoners will then become conspicuous in any form. I can't spare you again, Mrs. Justice Minister: What is being executed in criminal proceedings is largely a flawed economy. One has too little money, bigger reform projects are impossible, and one sees that one somehow spends the system, although one knows that there are shortcomings on the agenda and there. What is missing is a concrete concept, where one can also see where it is supposed to go in criminal execution, a constructive concept, an innovative concept that allows the execution of the penalty to be further developed and overcome this flawed economy. I have the impression that the execution of the sentence is constructive and innovative, you can't win any elections, and that's why you're continuing. Only: So it cannot go on, but it needs a concept, it needs a line, and there you are responsible as Minister of Justice and you demand to present this line to us once so that the situation can be improved in the execution of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18750	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18772	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Lausch, I think we agree in one area: That the protection of our fellow Members, whether it concerns justice or also the executive, is the highest priority. Both the judicial guard and the executive are professionals who take home their experiences and experiences from their profession after completion of the service. They burden their families with dramatic and tragic events, and we must not leave them alone. But one must also be clarified, and I have been active for many years in training, in the planning of operations, in the operational tactics of the executive, and I know very well: It is not done with the exclusive purchase of protective equipment! There has been sufficient funding: There are helmets, there are signs, there are body protectors, there are cut-resistant gloves, disposable gloves, there is arms – but that's not all. We have to deal with this issue in a serious way. You know very well that the all-healing vest, which makes colleagues and colleagues invulnerable, is not there. You will be left in the wrong faith, Mr Hagen, that the equipment is not sufficient, and if you buy everything yourself, you will actually leave the colleagues alone. It is important to ensure that the daily operations are not a daily routine and that the self-assurance is one of the most important elements. Demands like these are rather unscrupulous, because there is enough equipment. We know very well that there will always be operations in which the executive official or the judicial guard cannot use these protective equipment. Nor can I put on the full protective equipment for a colleague of the traffic police who controls traffic on the road, because he will not accept it. It is therefore necessary to look very closely at the aspects under which the colleagues can wear protective equipment, and they must not be quelled that, whatever concerns them, it offers a hundred percent protection, because that would be irresponsible. I think it's done enough. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18808	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18830	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would not have spoken now, but I still have to do so because it is unscrupulous, Mr Fazekas, that you are submitting me with a lack of seriousness, but, I believe, in the field of justice and justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would rather let Otto Pendlnoch do it, which is already very far away from these things, but nevertheless. What I wanted with this request is not available: a sufficient number. It is primarily about a good number of equipment. That's the problem. Large judicial institutions have the disadvantage that the use space is relatively far away. It would be better if the prison departments, which have up to 120 inmates in large judicial institutions, had such a vest in the department. I do not know now where the problem lies, whether it may cost millions and burden the government budget. But one thing I have to say – Mr Steinhauser has described the case –: Yes, there was an occasion in the Joseph City, an attempted hostage. The fact that there has not actually been a taking of hostages here was actually a very happy circumstance, but there were two servants injured, one very, very heavy. The Federal Minister then visited him in the hospital, but That's just a little bit, Mrs. Federal Minister, if you just do it to sell it medially. I would have expected action from you, Mrs Federal Minister, not expensive measures, but a measure would have been, for example, to buy protective vests for prison departments as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18887	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 932 of the supplements. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:27:03]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1238/A(E) by Mr Mag. Ewald Stadler, colleagues in relation to reducing the horning cost of legal proceedings (933 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18929	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18954	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler submitted a request for a copy of the case. There's no question, we're on this. This increase to € 1 was decided in the previous year. The argument put forward in this motion, Mr Stadler, is, of course, not in agreement and is not conclusive. You can't compare copying a criminal file in court with copying in a copier's office. The prices mentioned here come from a few cents when a page is multiplied a thousand times. This is not like the case in court, where there is also a manipulation effort, where the files have to be provided, then they have to be checked and sorted again. So it is in no way comparable. Nevertheless, we do not, of course, overlook that this is a burden, especially in larger procedures, where perhaps hundreds of pages are involved. However, I would like to point out that: Where procedural aid is granted, this fee is also waived, so this copy of these files costs nothing. However, we have tried to find a solution here that is sustainable, namely, to minimise the burden on justice, which is associated with it, and to reduce costs on the other hand. We have therefore also tabled our own motion for a resolution, which has also been adopted and supported by a majority in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, or even unanimously, as far as I can remember. This request is about the fact that the Federal Minister for Justice has also made it clear in a decree, and in the case of digitalized shares or files, every file – which can often be hundreds or thousands of pages, for example – can be treated like a copy, and it is therefore only once that fee of € 1 per file. That is why this motion for a resolution, which we have asked the Minister of Justice, calls for the efforts already being made in the field of justice to be forced to digitise the criminal acts and larger parts of the file in order to be able to provide them with more and more electronically, so that both can be resolved by minimizing the issue of the burden on justice and, on the other hand, the cost of the parties involved in the proceedings is also more tolerable in larger procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e18999	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19020	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Donnerbauer, Mr Steinhauser and Mr Stadler on the digitization of files of the public prosecutor's office and the courts is certainly a step that is welcome and goes in the right direction. In particular, in the investigation of the public prosecutors and in the main proceedings in courts, the case-law, but above all also the right to obtain a copy of the file, constitutes an important and essential part of a fair trial. At the same time, however, it is preparing the way for resource-saving and, above all, cost-effectiveness of the necessary file views in the future. This famous 1 € per order number or file, regardless of the number of pages, is once a first success. It is an amount that seems to be bearable, but this amount should not be ground in stone forever. On the one hand, the so-called justice relief package has brought some moderate – or less moderate – tax adjustments, but on the other hand it has created an additional burden in the administration. It is clear to me that our dishes are not a copier's office, but there should not be forgotten a certain customer-friendliness and the service idea. Of course, socially weaker people receive procedural assistance, but there are more and more people in our country who do not receive procedural assistance and for whom every additional euro is a burden. Therefore, everything must be done in the future to ensure that fair, correct, optimal legal representation does not depend on the thickness of the wallet and that the higher costs do not affect the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19054	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19075	Thank you, Mrs. Justice Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is primarily about the fact that at court, copies of files cost € 1 per page, not only in criminal proceedings – there it is perhaps the most blatant – but also if you want to copy something from the basic book, for which you have the right, or from the company book. This is a very high amount, and that is why the initiative is right to demand a reduction here. But something strange seems to me what is finally ahead of us. Austria has a leading position when it comes to running procedures electronically. We are the first to do this, and with regard to the book area, the company book area and so on, one looks jealously at us. Electronic implementation is also really an Austrian top product. That is why it seems rather bizarre that we are now putting forward a motion for a resolution asking the Ministry of Justice to make an electronic record in criminal proceedings as well. That is already in progress, it is already being worked on, and there is already a decree from the Minister for Justice. That's very strange. Obviously, the government groups want to show harmony and zeal in an area where there is no dispute. It is, of course, a sad sign that this is necessary, but since the content is sensible and we naturally support that it goes on, we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19111	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19162	Ladies and gentlemen! The regulation we are discussing today, namely this € 1 copy cost, has been introduced with the last budget accompanying law. Today, there is almost a consensus that this regulation has proved to be inappropriate. What would be more obvious if the next budget-accompanied law were to reduce this price, especially as it turned out to be a real robbery in the pockets of those seeking legal protection? And it's an attack on the middle class. I think it is interesting that the EIAs keep out the middle class on every occasion when it comes to preventing anything in the tax area. But who cares? Let's take a look at this: The small ones receive procedural assistance, the large ones can afford it, so it is true that those with medium incomes do not have access to procedural aid. That's fact. If we debate the asset tax, where there is no middle class, because the wealth is concentrated among the richest, the middle class is kept out of the ÖVP, and the middle class is being looted out of the legal protection seeker. The bad thing about it – and this is now the judicial part – is that it was thought to be funding. At the time, at the last budget, they tried to scratch each cent together. But not only does it have a financing effect, but it also has a steering effect. The steering effect is that asylum seekers are less copying, and that cannot be the meaning and purpose of the regulation because, in the sense of a fair procedure, we naturally want all parties to be able to prepare properly. Lawyers and lawyers say that this is a massive problem, especially in the complex economic causs, because the file parts are several thousand pages thick, and if you copy them, it costs several thousand euros. I think it's just an intolerable state. I don't think the electronic act's answer is bad. In principle, this is a useful way, a path that is forward-looking, but I doubt that implementation will succeed quickly, although I know that it has been debated for a long time. I believe that, in a first step in the budget accompanying law, one should take back this pointless measure, which hinders asylum seekers, and, of course, in a second step, it would be welcome to implement the electronic act in the sense of cost saving in the administration, in the sense of a modern administration, in the sense of an eGovernment strategy. Now, when I talk to people from the judiciary, they beat up their hands and say, As it is at the moment, it means more work than less. And it can't be either. I therefore believe that the motion for a resolution is correct, something has to happen. But it is even more important that we now quickly resolve the problem and stop the middle-class law seekers from looting the cash registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19211	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19232	High house! I join seamlessly where my previous speaker stopped. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, this is really my appeal: Let us be glad that we do not live in a country where everyone has become a recipient of procedural aid! People are so poor at first, thank God not yet, that every aid is given to the proceedings. In other words, those who do not receive procedural assistance must bear the full cost of copying. Mrs Bundesminister, I did not want to extend the committee debate with you, where you said that, in the end, there was also the possibility of procedural assistance. – Yes, of course, but then it pays the taxpayer again! If I say that the aid is the cost of copying, it means: I take them in first so that I have to give them back to the person concerned about the aid. Very well done! Then I'd rather leave it right away. No – failed it would be to find reasonable amounts. I just want to mention a few comparison numbers. At the University of Vienna, copying costs, depending on where you copy, between 5 and 10 cents, in the National Library 10 cents, in a copy shop, depending on the number of copies between 5 cents and 30 cents. But nowhere, ladies and gentlemen, does it cost 1 € per leaf, one side, per leaf! Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply not to be seen. And now it is not a question of meeting the poorest of the poor – one more thing: perhaps they can “slip” through the assistance of the proceedings – but it is really about asking the ordinary, ordinary lawyer to check out, I believe that it is not only in criminal proceedings, as the motion for a resolution says, but, as Mr Stefan is right, in all the basics, in all company books, in all civil matters, in all out-of-court cases. That is, even in those stories, where it is about the question of the copy of opinions in matters of duty and care, where not every father – thank God! – or not every mother subject to maintenance – thank God! – is from the outset a procedural aid beneficiary or a procedural aid beneficiary. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I say: The state must maintain proper dealings with its citizens, especially in the area of justice. The request made today deserves approval, to which we can agree without further delay, only: He's taking care of something else. He arranges an electronic act, which will certainly please our grandsons once. I don't have the confidence that we'll see that the electronic act is extended so far that you can save the copies. I don't think so. Finally, it is also true that in the court for the act itself, which is transported to and from, of course, one more act is also printed and can only be copied the handwritten notes on the documents. This is not about the electronic act, in particular the decisions that are often quite informative and interesting, as we know from a committee of inquiry. Therefore, in the end the copy remains as, I believe, the central element of transparency and fairness in the next few years, and this fairness should not be undermined with irresistibly high copying costs. Electronic act good and right, therefore we will also agree to the request today, but that is, please, the one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is the reduction of the cost of copying to an acceptable extent, because, ladies and gentlemen – and now I look at the economic operator Karlheinz Kopf – the cost of copying in the period 2008/2009 to 2009/2010 has doubled: from € 1.5 million to € 3 million for almost the same number of copies that were made! I mean, that's not acceptable, the copy costs aren't that high. They are also to be paid if you do it yourself, I know it from your own experience. Even if you do it yourself – so if you come to court for an understanding that you say: please, sit down, continue, I'm going to copy the act myself – you still have to pay 1 €. It doesn't change who makes the copies. [[Abg. Head:... already inside!]] Please? [[Abg. Head makes a dwindling gesture.]] It is simply and simply a measure which – as Mr Steinhauser is right – meets the middle class, namely those who do not receive procedural assistance and those who cannot really afford it. The whole empire can already bear the copy costs, which are not even noticeable, they don't notice when this is reflected in the honorary note. But those who have to turn every euro around and think about it three times, whether they can run a process at all or not, whether the legal protection insurance pays you the process or not, or whether the legal protection insurance is still ready to cover or not, they are dropped here, and that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19281	Mrs Bandion-Ortner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19302	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These copy costs are not about the pure copying process, but rather about a relatively high administrative burden. Mr Mag. Stadler, you were a law practitioner yourself. I don't know if you sent the judge to copy at the time. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But then you know how complicated such a thing is and how difficult it is to keep criminal acts in order. They consist of several file pages, order numbers, they are attached backlights, which is a pretty high effort. So it's not about a copy like in a copy shop, but it's about administration. What I wanted to say is that there are comparable copy costs in other countries. Especially in the case of civilian acts, Mr Mag. Stadler, it is true that the parties already have the essential documents, because the inputs are already delivered on their own. So there won't be so much to copy into civilian acts. Of course, in criminal acts, there may be a greater amount. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We don't have opinions...!]] But the electronic act is, so to speak, reality, is soon reality and no more utopia. Already, a lot of electronic delivery is being done, even now it's in big penalty so that the act is almost on the stick and everyone runs around in the pocket of his pants with the act. This is simply the modern technology used, and therefore it will soon be so that no copies are needed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19347	No further words are available here. The debate is thus closed. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 933 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is taken unanimously. (E 124.) [[18:43:41]] 14. Point Report of the Cultural Committee on the 2009 Art Report of the Federal Government (III-166/916 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19389	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. To an oral report by Mrs Mag. Muttons were abandoned. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19416	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Art and Cultural Report 2009 are the evidences of false emphasis on cultural policy. On the one hand, the economy of friends, the subsidisation of subsidies, the most generous rewards, for example in the case of failure to succeed – film promotion, I have to tell you: the Austrian film is third in the European comparison – multicultural associations, the construction of parallel societies; and on the other hand, cultural institutions such as the Volkskundemuseum or the Volkskundemuseum have been starved for years – after all, our great cultural heritage, which we should in fact pass on to future generations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a look at this in detail! In the art report, you can see that artists take a walk at state costs. We finance a year after year for example the writer Thomas Glavinic a holiday in Rome by €2 300, or we also buy him a computer of €1 500. The writer Egypt Gstättner may travel to Toulouse at our expense. In 2009, we planned travel grants of this kind alone for €80 000. In particular, artists who bet against us at every opportunity are rewarded, such as Robert Menasse. In addition to an annual grant of €6 000, he also receives a computer of €1 200. It could be assumed that an arfluent state artist like Menasse could actually give up subsidies of this kind. I think it is a summit of insolence that people who are really arfluent take on funds, and on the other hand, for example, a single mother can break her head over whether she can afford the colorful pens for her child at the start of school. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that young artists should get a chance and not arfluent artists like Menasse and Co. The project “Museum Neu” – that is, the merger of two completely different museums, namely the Volkskunde- und Volkskundemuseum – has failed. Both museums have been starved in recent years, they stand with their backs to the wall, they are desperate. By the way, the director of the Museum of Art, you all know, has thrown the towel. Mrs Schindler is still fighting, but she is quite sure that she has to return this project because she is not given autonomy: content, financial, personnel and space is not given. We have already recognized some time ago that this whole project has been condemned to failure. We have repeatedly argued here in the house that we seek a solution with which these two museums, which are of course important for our cultural heritage, are federal museums and also have a future. That was rejected here in the house! It is a scandal, I think, that these two museums are seen by the ministry as cases of problem. That is not what they are; they have been made a problem, and that is not the case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Kulturminister! You know that too, please: for the Volkskundemuseum 400 000 €! In addition, this is granted from cultural activities, it is not even seen as a museum. The house falls over their heads there, and they don't even have money for exhibition posters. That's impossible, you can't do that! Compared to this, the most unsuccessful museum in Vienna is the MAK – please listen! – 9,5 million €! When you look at what's happening there – you've certainly pursued it – you're looking at what's happening there: Communism is being glorified, now with this MAK exhibition, in which this murderer regime is glorified by North Korea. funds flow, but there is no money available for our folklore museum – that our own culture has been passed on to future generations for centuries. Mrs. Kulturminister, that's not possible! There would be enough money for cultural policy. Only: Does it sometimes make sense? Unfortunately, Mrs. Minister, the summit of culturallessness – I must accuse you of this – is that you have loosened funds to get our federal anthem surrounded. I mean, the federal anthem is a state symbol, you can't put that around! There more than € 1 million – I took this out of a request – was loosened so that Christl Stürmer could surround our federal anthem. That is, on the one hand, we have 1 million € for the German anthem, on the other hand we have 400 000 € for the Volkskundemuseum – that is two and a half times as much for the re-densification of the German anthem as for the budget for the Volkskundemuseum! We demand transparency in terms of subsidies. We all know that not only does the Federal Government grant public subsidies, but there are also overlapping subsidies from countries and communities. It would be really interesting to learn how many money flow there. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! This morning, the Minister of Finance suddenly had ideas about saving. I think it's really time for you to act. We are in a situation where once we can separate the sprue from the wheat, we now have to set priorities. I have heard that the Ministries are called upon to act in this respect. We now have to change the structures and produce consequences. We all know: Multikulti failed! We have said that for 20 years, but now it is perfectly obvious. There must be no support for parallel companies, and there must be no money for privileged riders. Art and culture, this is the foundation of our society that we build. This is where the money has to be handled carefully. I ask you, Mrs Minister, to see your responsibility here, and to look at it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19535	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19595	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19616	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm in the wrong movie now, but it's obviously reality. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I would like to make a few points about your statements and also about your broadcast that you made before. [[in the direction of the Abg. May. Inlander]] First: Obviously, you got back to the point – as in the nineties – to defame individual artists in the greatest way. I would like to reject this outrageous and vehemently. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, In your broadcast of “State Artists, ” you speak of an“ ideology resort. ” You speak of it, although you do not intend anything other than to instrumentalize art and culture in the end. [[Abg. Weinzinger: How's that going?]] You're against everything else, you're against everything that's new, and you want everything to stay the way it was. They don't want it to stay the way it is, but as it was. A third point: Perhaps you have missed it, the freedom of art and culture is established and anchored in the Constitution. You do not seem to be aware of the task of cultural policy, which, in the end, has a political role to play, namely to allow good conditions for the free working of the artists. A fourth point: Your idea of tradition or even identity – you have often done that – is more than pre-conceived, with you it means standing and petrifying. If that's what you want, please – but I don't want it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the art report we are discussing today, the art report 2009. This documents that the government clearly acknowledges the responsibility of the state in the promotion of culture. I am glad that this is so, because in many countries, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, the funding has been reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! Investment in art and culture are of great importance for continuity and for adequate framework conditions – as I have already mentioned – because, without sufficient investment, there is a risk that in the following years there will be significant cuts: in the diversity of artistic expression, but ultimately also in the offer and in the possibilities of cultural participation that we have. Our policy wants to give everyone in society the opportunity to participate in art and culture. This is to be read in the report. But you also need a good mediation. Perhaps Mrs Unterlander – she has already gone out – should accept such offers once. Because we have the happy situation that art, culture and teaching come together in a place, there are also good and important synergies. In this way, we enable children and young people to develop new patterns of thought through the art of playful and curious research and to leave enterprising paths. That is why it is important for us to see the state, that you, Mrs. Minister, invest in art and culture, as is done for example in the case of research. We want to move forward and not backward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19686	Mr Neubauer referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19710	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Muttonen has colleague Mag. Inconsistency accused her of defaming artists. I'm actually correcting: Mrs Unterlander could not defamate these artists at all, for she was merely quoting from this report by the Federal Minister and the competent office in which the art and cultural report was drawn up. If it were different, these reports would be diffamation reports, and that would be the responsibility of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19742	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19780	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Without wanting to speak a bit of beauty now or having to defend someone, one can say quite well that this federal government, especially the Federal Minister of Finance and, above all, the Minister of Finance, is very well committed to Austria's cultural nation. This, of course, is also expressed in the 2009 art and cultural report, because if the Federal Museums are held here, which is the fact that more money has been taken into their hands for both the Bundestheater and the Bundesmuseen – at the Bundestheaters by €3.5 million, at the Bundesmuseen by € 8.5 million – that is something that can be seen and what will be difficult enough to keep in view of the economically difficult situation and budget savings – we will discuss this in the next few days and weeks. Nevertheless, it should be our desire to keep this status as well. I have heard several statements from both the Federal Minister and the Minister of Finance in this regard that it is their will and desire at least to maintain the status in the field of culture and art in order to be able to support our artists in Austria in the best possible way. – That was said on the one hand. Secondly, however, I believe that it is necessary, especially in economically difficult times, that all the money that the public hand invests, in any case, flows into culture and the programme, not into the system. This must, of course, also apply to our large cultural institutions. In this respect, we are in favour of the final report of the evaluation of the Bundestheater, because it is also our task here and, above all, the task of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure and carefully examine it – not that we question it in principle, but yet we have a responsibility – whether by means of the public resources we make available as efficiently as possible, namely economically and not economically. It is not a question of whether or not the Commission is prepared to take action in this field. It will also be the task of the cultural speakers of the Cultural Committee to deal responsibly with this matter, for which I would like to invite you very cordially now. In the museum area, Mrs. Unplatzer addressed the situation around the Museum of Folk Science and People's History. I also believe that a museum of cultures or a mixture of one's own culture with other cultures can be quite an enrichment. In the next few days – I mean, very quickly – one will also have to decide how a possible merger of the Museum of National History and the Volkskundemuseum will look like. In a concept called “Museum Neu” – which was created in the cooperation of the Museum of Folk Science, the Volkskundemuseum and also representatives of the BMUKK – the two directors of the Museum of Art and People’s History are likely to have been made very tasty to the two museum directors. This would, of course, be a great deal to recover, although we must not ignore the economic situation and also the budgetary situation. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I am therefore sorry that some false hopes have apparently been made that have naturally led to disappointments at the end of the day. I would like to see this process carried out in the end not for nothing, but rather very well in terms of content continue to discuss the reflections of a museum of cultures and to reach an agreement as quickly as possible, at least a solution for all those involved. With regard to the request made by my colleague, Mr Unterlander, as regards the subsidy transparency database, I can only say, Mrs Colleague: We're already a step further. It was only yesterday that the Federal Law on a database of transparency was presented in the Council of Ministers, where the funding and payments from public funds are accurately recorded in § 11. So we from the ÖVP stand for transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19844	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19865	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The difficulty is already starting with the fact that the division of art and culture is not only lacking in the ministry of every classification. We have this in particular with the Federal Museums. It is so mixed that many believe that art and culture are the same. In principle, it is just like with the squares and rectangles: Each square is a rectangle, but not every rectangle is a square. In one word: Art is always culture, but culture is not automatically art. To work out this would also be a task of cultural policy. One consequence of this mixture is that all museums do anything. We have been pointing out for many years that there is pure chaos, especially when it comes to making money with numbers of visitors, with blockbuster exhibitions – and that of course there is modern art in the foreground. We have five art museums, four of which present modern art, but other things are completely lost. On international parquets, it is almost natural that every larger city, if already in the tourism competition, has a cultural museum. And a cultural museum has other tasks than just making some sort of fast money and developing high frequencies in terms of visitor numbers. It is also about showing how cultures can come out of each other, that they can live very differently and yet peacefully side by side. So much on the subject of multicultural. That can be quite true, but it is also necessary to develop an understanding of other cultures. It is simply incomprehensible why we have a folklore museum and do not make it a cultural museum together with the Volkskundemuseum! That's what we want for many years. That's very reasonable. This museum was simply embroiled by Minister Gehrer in the course of the distribution far below his value, and is part of the Art History Museum. No person around the world understands why this internationally renowned collection is not presented in such a way that it is not only possible to make money internationally, but also to improve the reputation of Austria – but also that which I have said at first, to fulfil the pedagogical requirement that such a museum would have in the first place. So there are very many reasons in one word for raising the museum of folklore from its sleep of thorns. This has been recognised by many, including the public – and the big parties have recognized this too. In a meeting before the summer, I think it was on 7 July. July, there has been a corresponding motion for a resolution tabled by the two major parties and supported by us, as a result of which you, Mrs Minister, have been asked to do everything possible to ensure that the Museum of Art, titled Museum, is installed as a cultural museum in cooperation with the Volkskundemuseum. What has happened after this motion for a resolution? – They turned away and said: No, it all stays with the old; we will and will and will...! The message, therefore, is that a motion for a resolution, which has a good reason, is simply put forward by the Minister. Now I ask you, Mrs Schmied, and also you from the SPÖ: Do you want this museum at all or don't you want it? And: Do you want this museum as an independent museum? This has not lost anything in the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Again: Do you want that or not? Of course you can also say that you want it, but there is no money for it. That's something different than when you say you don't want it. If you say there's no money for it, then you can say: Okay, Mrs. Minister, let's take a look at where you could save there. Indeed, there is a museum that is criticised primarily because of the fact that there is waste addiction, as it did not even bring together “grandmaster” Seiel at the time. If there are things coming to the public that are hardy, then I can really try a comparison with sepulchre. For example, Director Noever celebrates the birthday of his mother year after year in the museum and attracts employees to serve there for this birthday. That's amazing vets. It can't be that Museum Director Noever requires €10,000 for events as rent for the column hall, but on the mother's birthday not only doesn't require anything, but also lets the employees work for it – and also the visitors who come to his mother's birthday count into the numbers of visitors! Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! I would really ask you, Mrs Minister, to take on responsibility. Another example – “School Grasser”, that is to say learn from Grasser – is the own homepage of Director Noever. At the expense of the museum and thus also the Republic, this one makes itself its own homepage! That can't be true! Noever sees in 2003 or 2004 how the grass makes – and does not understand it. In the cultural field, Noever believes that will never notice. - But it's notable. I would point this out and ask you to stop and control this, Mrs. Minister! Another example. Noever performs a limousine with chauffeur – and at every opportunity he does so. He goes to a curatorial meeting with the big black Mercedes, of course with chauffeur and presents himself there. This is all at state costs, and I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, whether this makes a slim foot when all the employees are on the bus during a business trip – and next to it, the director is driving with the black limousine with chauffeur. Is that so great? – I think no! So there is an urgent need for action, and I think it is your job to draw a conclusion from your responsibility, Mrs Minister. There is enough to do in cultural policy, I would say, but just as you do, everything stays with the old, everything is the same as with Minister Gehrer. Make sure that these upcoming problems are finally addressed! It is not only a question of money, it is also a question of will. First of all, I would like to hear whether you, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, are in favour of reorganising the conditions in the museums, as you promised when you took office. For two years, all possible bodies met, working groups and so on – and at the end of the day, nothing came out. We're back where we were three years ago, even where we've been for many years. Again: There is no systematicity in this area at all, there is no cultural policy at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e19979	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20000	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As regards the 2009 art report, we must say: It is, of course, gratifying that although the funds were minimal but increased to € 91.3 million. The main beneficiaries were the large-scale, the Festival, where it was shown that this in turn had a positive impact on urban tourism. That is, if you take money into your hands, you can get something back economically in this regard. There is a 10 percent reduction in the film. Since, Mrs Federal Minister, I think you should invest more, so that Austrian artists are also engaged, have a job and do not always have to move abroad. Let's just look at the Reinhardt seminar. There, great artists are trained year after year, but because of the lack of jobs, they have to leave the country. It would be appropriate to provide financial resources to support Austrians in order to prevent this emigration. On the topic of music promotion: The Austro share of Austrian radio is far too low, especially as regards contemporary artists. There is a need for action; there we should move something in the right direction. Mr Zinggl, as you have already mentioned this in the Committee: If that's really true, I can only say: We from the BZÖ stand for absolute enlightenment. I am convinced that the Minister will comment on this today, because we are not dealing with taxpayers' money. In this regard, you have our full support, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As regards FPÖ's application: Yes, we will support this because transparency is important to us from the BZÖ. We want to know where the costs are where taxpayers are used, where there are subsidies, et cetera. And I am also looking forward to the report we can then replicate. An appeal to art sponsoring concerning the abmissability: For me there is still a need for action, because I think there are enough stumbling blocks that still need to be cleared out of the way so that the sponsorship can be really exploited in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20054	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20076	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Zinggl, of course the SPÖ remains new to the museum concept. It is a political and contently very supportive project, and we will continue to work in this direction. The Minister will, of course, continue the discussions in this direction. I mean, your statement that there are no cultural visions or no cultural concept is not at all right. On the contrary: I am convinced that our Minister of Culture is very likely to pursue cultural visions, and that, in particular, with her openness and appreciation for her, she creates a climate in which art and culture can flourish well. – This is also a primary task of cultural policy. Unfortunately, Mr Unterlander is not here now. I would have liked to say to her that, in my opinion, cultural policy is primarily characterised by the promotion and support of cultural creators, enabling things and encouraging cultural creators to create new things on the one hand, but, of course, to preserve traditional things, always under the premise that freedom of art is granted. As a cultural politician, I do not think we should and should not always interfere in the content. We understand this from social democracy under cultural policy. We do not see this as the colleagues of the liberals, who repeatedly exclude individual artists, just because they may not agree with their artistic content. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is an understatement!]] That is exactly the opposite of what our Mrs Minister understands under cultural policy and what we understand by cultural policy. If you look closely at the art report, you can see that our ministers are very likely to set priorities that are very important for the cultural life and climate of a state, such as the promotion of young people. There is also more means for reading this also in the art report, and it is very important that young artists and young cultural artists be encouraged to pursue their art rather than that of which some politicians believe it is art and culture. The second priority, which has also been addressed, is the mediation of art and culture. This is extremely important so that young people can be led to culture and art and that they can open up new audiences. Thirdly, as a representative from a region, I am very important that cultural initiatives be promoted by regional cultural creators, because I am convinced that there are also outstanding artists and excellent associations away from urban centres and that there is art and culture at a high level. I am very glad that our Lady Minister has also set this priority in her cultural policy. Finally, I would like to stress once again that I am convinced that the openness and appreciation of our Minister Dr. Schmied is the right cultural policy for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20115	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start with my commitment to art and culture in five points, and here I address my word to you, Mr Zinggl, above all. My first point is a clear commitment to the responsibility of the state in the art financing and promotion of the cultural institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: It's in the law!]] – It will live too! My second point concerns a commitment to world-wide art and cultural policy as well as a clear commitment to the freedom of art and the autonomy of cultural institutions. Third point: Art to all and art with all. It is important to set clear priorities in the field of cultural education. Art and cultural mediation is seen as a programme in a place where education, art and culture can be developed together. Fourth point: There must be good framework conditions and above all reliable framework conditions for the development of cultural institutions. This, in my view, includes access to personnel decisions in the sense of a clear responsibility and a culture of soundness. This includes corporate governance and public governance for me. If I put this into the Federal Museums field, then the clear framework agreement, museum regulations, regulations and the involvement of the curators in all areas where they are clearly in place are clear. In addition, there must be a master plan in the field of investment activities, keyword Kunstkammer, keyword Zwanz’gerhaus. Fifth point – which has been stressed most recently and is a very special concern to me –: I have already mentioned the appreciation of the artists and the commitment to their autonomy. Especially important is the appreciation of regional cultural initiatives. I think this is particularly important, because it is also about the mediation of home feeling. I would like to make a very specific statement and address it. The regional cultural institutions have a special role to play in the development of our country, and I also see it in close association with art communication and cooperation in the school sector. But now on the 2009 art report, which is on the agenda today: The year 2009 was probably a particularly difficult year economically, and in the field of art it was possible to increase the Federal estimate of €92.8 million compared to the previous year, even slightly in one year, in which other areas unfortunately had to be shortened. The focus in 2009 is in short: significant increase in funding for the Austrian film industry by €3 million plus, improvement of the social situation of artists, increase of the fund's grant to social security contributions. We have introduced the so-called IMAG, an interministerial working group, an attorney for the artists in all cross-sectional fields, from copyright to tax law to the innovation of the Act of the Actress and the Künstler Social Security Structure Act. A major concern – in this respect I agree with Mrs Unterlander – is the increased promotion of young artists, for example on the newly introduced state scholarships. There is also greater security of planning, especially for cultural initiatives. With two years of contracts, there is a certain degree of security and planning. Finally, it is also about strengthening the international presence. I would ask you to take note of the fact that it is not about holiday trips, but about stays abroad by artists and artists, for example in the case you mentioned in the artist studio in Rome. It is important to me that we handle all our programs with the highest appreciation with the artists. This is a topic that my employees are committed to. An applicant for art promotion must never experience himself as a bitter in my department. This is very important to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, we have also intensified cooperation with the artists. We regularly issue a newsletter, there are regular consultations, and it is also a great concern for me to make the awards of our artists more media-public, because it is above all about the social appreciation of art and culture. I would like to say a few words on some of the questions raised in the previous debate. As far as transparency of funding and funding is concerned, I should like to add the words of Mrs Fuhrmann. On the one hand, there must be full transparency in the art report – from which you have also quoted – and in the future this full transparency will also be ensured through the transparency database. To the Kunsthistorisches Museum, keyword “Museum Neu”: I renew my commitment to the present concept of “Museum New”, a museum of cultures. It will now be about defining – and it will work on this – how this museum can be managed in the highest possible autonomy and independence. But independence does not always have to be the same as social independence. There are other ways to do this. Mr Zinggl, because you once again mentioned the suspicions against Director Noever, perhaps to extend the discussion in the Cultural Committee now: I've got a date 19. October 2010 addressed a letter to the board of trustees Dr. Andreas Treichl with the allegations you have raised and a special examination will now take place to check all these points in detail. I am – as far as I think you know me now after almost four years of cooperation – also interested in full transparency and education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20188	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20210	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Austria is a country that has a lot of clichés. If you believe the clichés, we would be a country of people who are likely to move on Lipizzans and eat Mozart balls; if they are Vienna, they are either cozy or grotesque when they are Tyrolean, they are corey and everyone is definitely skiing. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Leather pants!]] What you have to think of clichés, we know. But there is probably hardly a cliché that is as close to reality as that described in Austria as a country of culture and art. The present art report and also the cultural report give a witness about it, even though some may see it differently here. I would like to draw attention to two aspects: On the one hand, it's the topic of gender. With the help of the EU-level directives – to which the EU has to be thanked – the issue of gender equality has also been given a high priority in art. This is not about undifferentiated equalizing, but about making women visible in art, even to meet the usual and common suspicions. It is about giving women in the arts and culture the same attention and support as men. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The fact that this has succeeded certainly also has to do with the high proportion of women who work as advisory boards and jury members in the various bodies of the art section and who therefore help to picture the reality of life in the art landscape of Austria. There has therefore been a very positive development in the field of scholarships, which facilitates many artists and, of course, artists' entry into art life, into which art scene. A second aspect – this one has already been addressed – is regionality, also in the promotion of art. If we assume that art and culture are not in the high ivory tower, very elitistly so to speak, but as an invitation to be among people as a challenging offer, it is essential to promote art also in the regions. In many cases, as we know, this is primarily the case of the countries, but it must also find its rainfall in the art budget. 4.7 percent of his art budget is issued by the Federation for Cultural Initiatives. As the Upper Austrian, I think in particular of the film festival crossing europe, the ARS ELECTRONICA Festival or the Festival of Regions. These are very successful and very popular initiatives, and they bring culture and art to where they should be primarily, namely to the people. That is why I would like to thank you for this support in the sense of art-makers, but also for the people of the regions. I can honestly imagine a higher share of the budget for these regional initiatives, because most of Austria is outside of Vienna. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20250	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20274	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the art report shows the importance of art and culture, namely that it is also a sign in budgetary difficult times. This art report is publicly available. The distribution of more than € 91 million in budgetary art media is very transparent and very comprehensible for all. I would therefore also like to address some of the points mentioned in this report. For the future of our country, the priority given by the Minister for Youth in her opinion is extremely important. An important contribution to this is the increased cultural placement at schools as well as various art priorities in teacher promotion. In this context, I would like to refer to the free entry of children and young people into the museums since this time, which has led to an increase in the number of visitors by a third in the first half of the year. Many of these young visitors will later stay with art as adults, continue to visit museums, exhibitions, and many young museum visitors will also gain a different, more open attitude to art and the social environment than they had before they had contact with art. But another word on how the liberal opposition wants to see art and cultural policy realized. The FPÖ has demanded in the Committee, but also otherwise – pointing to the Court of Auditors' report – that there should be savings in subsidies. I therefore ask: Whether to promote more common artists? It is promoted quality within the framework of subsidies – and not the attitude. Of course, there can't be a caputt-saving either. It is said here as if there had never been the report on the social situation of artists, if there were to be saved. 37 percent of the artists live below the poverty line, and the average income of artists is €4 500 per year from their artistic activity. The study shows how important these subsidies and subsidies are and that many artists could not live without them. We would be very poor if we didn't have the artistic achievements that will be done there. In summary, it can be said that Austria has a well-functioning cultural promotion and has a lively, critical and internationally recognized cultural landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20320	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20341	Mr. President! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria owes its international reputation for a good to its artistic, cultural and scientific achievements. In art, Austria is one of the most important cultural nations and this is both in the arts themselves and in artistic education and training. This is also documented in the present art report. Those who read this art report must also think of the art universities themselves. The Austrian art universities are recognized worldwide. This creative potential exists in education, the development of the arts and the promotion of art. to make greater use of and network with art and culture institutions much stronger and better. The teacher education programs of the art universities and the educational universities are an important prerequisite for early access to art and culture for students at school. Bundesmuseen, Bundestheater, Galleries, internationally recognized festivals, the film world, all of them live by the art-interested audience and the young public. But while our art universities play in the mediation and development of the arts and teaching in the world league, our educational universities are in this respect in the regional league. The quality of training of teachers at educational universities is far from in line with the standards of the art universities. We therefore need increased autonomy – not only the cultural institutions, as you mentioned, Mrs Federal Minister, but also the educational universities, in order to open up in cooperation with the art universities. However, we also need enhanced art promotion programmes for the educational universities. We also need appropriate funding programmes for the development of the arts. I am thinking of the role of PEEK, the FWF's programme for the development and development of the arts. We also need a similar programme for universities in the field of educational universities. I would like to see more cooperation between the universities, the educational universities and the art and cultural institutions. But I would also like to see increased cooperation between the departments, namely the science community, the teaching centre and the foreign policy centre, because there are also overlaps that need to be further coordinated in particular in foreign policy. The art and cultural forums on the one hand are important, but their activity abroad is much better coordinated from my point of view, so that our contemporary art also has the corresponding promotion of young people and is also presented and represented abroad accordingly. Mrs. Federal Minister, this report impressively shows that many things have happened, but we also have much ahead of us, namely better coordination, focussing and greater autonomy for the educational universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20393	The next speaker was Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20414	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! They always say to us outside: Donate applause, because the applause is the bread of the artists, the musician. I can say: Make music promotion, this is something that our young people can live on and become full of! I would like to make a few positive comments on music promotion. It is gratifying that the Ministry focuses on promoting music research, that artistic quality in particular is such a major concern and that contemporary art and the innovative aspect of this budget are so important. The music budget in question is € 8.5 million in the field of the Ministry. About € 0.5 million of this is spent exclusively on promoting composition and young composers. This is a gratifying circumstance, ladies and gentlemen, one sets a clear focus in the care of young people. It is also pleasing that the New government scholarships increasingly allow young artists to enter the international scene, thus creating a wide range. This positive support policy is complemented and rounded off by music prices and prizes. Ladies and gentlemen! The total art budget rose by 1.7 percent in 2009, in a difficult year. So I can say, Not only is applause full, but it is also a source of increased support. The Federal Ministry of Education, Art and Culture is a good partner for our artists. Mrs. Minister, continue along this path. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20462	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20484	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In 2009, the promotion of young people was a cultural priority. State scholarship for young artists to take a foothold in the international art scene was a very important point. The promotion of young people is of course a matter of course that has already been used in the mediation of art, and the school plays a very special role. As Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager said, teacher education is an important part. Who can be better interested in our children, the young people, than art-enthusiastic teachers? However, regional initiatives are also needed, and I am pleased, Mrs Minister, that regional cultural initiatives are a special concern for you. Art must take place on site so that I can also arouse enthusiasm for young people who are sometimes at home in the rural area and – like me – grow up at the other end of Austria, that is, far away from Vienna, where most art and culture take place. When I'm on the subject of school, architecture is also an important part to mention. In times where major restructurings take place in school, more change to day-to-day teaching, modern educational models are tested, but new forms of teaching and learning are also taking place, it is especially important that architecture also takes into account. There was a workshop in May – Quo vadis Schulbau? – and I am already very excited about what results there are. It is important for architecture to go into this field, because it is more ideal to promote art and mediate art than to take place in a high-quality architecture of art-enthusiastic educators and educators. Austria is a cultural nation, and this must also come into the hearts of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20527	The next speaker was Mr Höfinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20548	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, you have both here today and already in the Committee a clear commitment to the promotion of the state's culture. You have explained your five-point programme again, and this is really very comprehensive so that everyone can feel properly involved. Mrs. Minister, you are talking about the world-open culture, you are talking about art to everyone, you are talking about providing good, reliable and predictable framework conditions, that the appreciation for artists should be appropriate and that there should also be support and support for regional cultural institutions. It is noteworthy that there has been an increase in the 2009 budget, which was not taken for granted in the light of the general circumstances and which, however, is a very good starting point for this work. The cultural report shows us that this year's activities have gone with great commitment and commitment to all those involved. Nevertheless: There are expectations, and I expect and miss some of the rapid development of such structures. A keyword are the museums, the framework agreements or “Museum New” where we are in delay. I believe that there must be implementation very quickly on many points. It has already been mentioned: the merger of the Museum of Folks and Folks and the Master Plan for which the Chamber of Art, the Zwanz’gerhaus and the Literary Museum have not yet been implemented and completed. I think it would be necessary to take these steps quickly now in order to use synergies on the one hand and to avoid parallel structures on the other. Art and culture offered in Austria should also be brought to a modern platform. They should be attractive for visitors, but also for the artists themselves. Our light, in the international comparison, should not be put under the Scheme on this issue, but should really come out. In this sense: Many thanks for the content of this art and cultural report and many thanks to all those who have filled it not only with numbers but also with facts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20594	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Jury is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20615	On the art report of the year 2009, I would like to conclude by saying: Of course, in the fields of culture and art, you can always make everything better. Of course, more and more resources could be available. The fact is – and I must also say this as an appreciation for the Minister of Culture and Education – that the Minister of Culture is doing fine work, especially in the field of cultural initiatives. I can judge this, as the mayor of an artist city that has a strong cultural initiative. This cultural initiative operates six galleries, art studios in our city, it organizes art and cultural ensembles as well as cabaret and jazz evenings, so art and culture in all locations and especially in rural areas! My access, I say now, is that this is a tourist added value for rural areas. I would like to join the Minister for These Equipment Thank you very much for the cultural initiatives in rural areas. Of course, one can develop this again and again, with programs of art communication, especially for young people, where the focus should be in the future. I would like to thank you once again, Mrs Bundesminister. I wish you all the best in the field of art and cultural promotion. I also wish you all the best in the field of education! It's not that easy to go to a good future with your coalition partner. My appreciation is yours – of course it comes from the opposition, but I say: You have to be able to criticize, but you have to be able to praise. All right, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20654	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20676	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The comments made by Mrs Muttonen have led me to a small replica. The proposals you have made to Mrs Unterlander in this House are an absolute diffamation. No one in the Freedom Party will curtail the freedom of art in any form, that is no question at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only: With regard to the freedom of tax money, which is spent for this purpose, one may already have a shared opinion. We've heard that the state has to save. This must also apply to investments made here through subsidies. The freedom of art does not mean the freedom of the means of taxation! When it is described here that young artists need to be promoted so that they have a good start, I really wonder: Is Robert Menasse such a young up-and-coming artist that in two years he needs around 15 000 € subsidies to be able to live his art? (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) They say the artists listed there would all need a promotion. – Do you know which artists were not promoted? Do you know which artists have sought, but whose art – in the context of the freedom of art – has not been recognized as worthy of funding? - No, you can't know that. There is no answer to these questions – on the grounds that it would expose those concerned if they were known that they did not come to the train when awarding a prize, that is contrary to data protection. That would actually be interesting! Because even the people who decide can only do this subjectively! In art, only subjectives can decide what quality is. Maybe you can say it: Do you know what happens in the projects “Ländliche Klubhaus Eagle Rock”, “Restaurant Transformable”, “Marampa Pub”, “Sleepshow”, “If Architecture Could Talk” – this project is made in Mongolia – or in Vienna the “Suono – Podium for intercultural exchange” or the “Transit” project for 30,000 €. You know that? No one knows! It's just the lists are prayed down, because you said it's now, it's a sum of 100 000 €, 200 000 €, 1.9 million € and so on, that's spent. You don't really know! There are composition orders. Have you ever heard of works that were created on the basis of these compositional orders? Have we had the opportunity to once a year, that young artists in parliament, in the column hall or perhaps in another setting present a work somewhere? Have we had the opportunity to see purchased works – there are lists of purchases there – and see what is happening there? Is that on the Internet? – No, there are the names of artists and the amounts they get, in part, shuddered behind any name – of course, probably with good reason, chosen from artistic sentiments. In any case, we cannot understand. However, we are not here to deal with the tax money so generously. Each other must complete his application for point and indent. We can't see what's going on with that, because we can't follow this. Now on museum policy: In the MAK, each ticket, from the free to that of a full-payer, with the highest amount of funding, is sponsored with 52 €. Every visitor is sponsored with 52 €! The MAK has the largest basic funding. I can only agree with Mr Zinggl's statement, which has described some of the treatises of what is clearly happening there, from the service car to the mother's birthday feast. Thankfully, you have already announced or already reported that you have led a review by the board of trustees. Only: Here are clearly the wrong parameters. And if it is necessary by Mr Zinggl for you to become active and to find something like that at all, then this is not really the control that you expect from the system in principle, it cannot be all opposition politicians that can be at the pulse of time. That would actually be a question that the Ministry could do itself with a corresponding controlling measure. That is why, I believe, urgent action is needed. What we want is not only transparency – also through other funding pots, as has already been mentioned – but more or at least more exemplary from the art report, what these individual projects mean. It would not be a problem if you were to introduce a supported film, a film project, music compositions, commissioned works or purchases from visual art to the Hohe Haus once, so that you know it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20758	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of this report III-166 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Inlanders, jury, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of a subsidy transparency database for the arts and culture sectors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[19:48:47]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment 1236/A(E) by Mr Stefan Markowitz, Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues on measures to attract (teaching) professionals in tourism (935 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20836	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Obernoster. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20864	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is a motion for a resolution, a five-party request to attract tourism professionals. As we all know, Austria is a tourist country. If one calculates the number of nights spent on the population, we are the second most important tourist country in the world to Cyprus. We also know that Austria has a very good reputation in the tourism sector internationally, whether in urban tourism, cultural tourism, tourism or as a schination. When we travel around the world, we actually meet everywhere, in all possible hotels, Austrians, well-trained tourist workers working there as managers, chefs or other functions. I think that is also a duty to deal with the issue of training in the tourist sector again. A lot has been done in recent years. For example, this summer the Ministry of Economic Affairs again carried out the pilot project “Get a Job – Your Chances in Tourism”. There is the teaching with Matura, on the one hand, in the form of the extension of teaching time by one year, i.e. from three to four years, on the other hand, one can also do this accompanying. Of course, this has the disadvantage that it is only possible in central locations, but not in the periphery outside. Nevertheless, we must remember that we are bringing many, many young people to the tourism industry. The demand is given. When you look at surveys, you see that almost 50 percent of young people say they want to work with people, that's their idea when they get into work. And almost a third, at least almost 30 percent, the young people see employment in the tourist area as a dream job at all. But it is fact that only about every tenth works in the tourism industry. We hear again and again that especially in the tourism sector, working conditions are not exemplary, so many who have been trained touristically leave this profession early on. But this is not only so in the tourism sector, but also in other professions. Why is that so? – We know that the tourism industry is one where working time is not always clear. We only need to look at the cafeteria here in the house. People there don't know if the meeting is at 8 a.m., at 10 a.m., at 0.00 a.m. or at 2 p.m., you can't say that in advance. There are serious differences in the tourism industry. There is, on the one hand, the city hotels or gastronomy and, of course, the hotel itself, where there is actually a relatively regulated working time. On the other hand, there is the gastronomy area, the typical inn where there are massive problems. If a group comes in there at 1.30 p.m. and wants to eat something and you tell the guests that this is no longer possible, because the staff must go home at 2.00 a.m., then that doesn't work. We are really aware of this problem. On the other hand, the public, whether economics, education or anyone else, can do little. You may be able to change the curriculum again, you can go more towards internationalization, To teach people foreign languages, which is very important today when we work in this area. In the end, however, the tourism industry itself is also required to make the framework conditions for tourism employees as good as possible – and not only in view of the staff. I say quite clearly: It must also be important for the entrepreneur that the employee has at least half-time regulated working hours, because only then do we get many young people to do so. There is an old saying that is still common to us: Only where satisfied employees are, there are also satisfied guests. In this sense, I would like to thank you for this five-party proposal and hope that in this sense, as I said, we will improve the training plans, but also the framework conditions in the tourism sector, so that many, many young people start to confess to this truly beautiful industry and work there. Then: It is not a matter of course to work where others make vacations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20925	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e20946	Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Yes, that is true, tourism is a special backbone of the Austrian economy at an economically difficult time. We are proud of this industry. We are proud that she has really proved to be a crisis-proof. It also shows how we have debated this morning that if people have money they can spend, they are very happy to spend it in the Austrian economy, in this case in the tourism industry. The present resolution refers, on the one hand, to improving and attracting teaching in the tourism and leisure sectors, but on the other, to the extension of the length of stay of people working in tourism. There was already a package, the season extension. Unfortunately, she has not been a great success so far, you have to say that honestly. Only a few know them, and I have partly experienced that they do not even know employees themselves. It's probably too little advertising for that. I think you also have to ask what the reason is why this project did not really take place. I also believe that it is a good way in Austria that the Advisory Board on Vocational Training deals socially with questions of new fields of training, because this will lead to a certain balance of interests in advance. It's clear that we don't want to have a dead end. You can make modules that are constructive, which then go further into the depth, but we don't want any dead end-to-end jobs! Mrs. State Secretary! I believe that we agree that the Advisory Board on Vocational Training will finally make proposals which should be reflected in the Vocational Training Act and finally dealt with in your place of business. I would just like to stress this again today. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not a purely Austrian problem that these professions are not particularly attractive. I have read the last survey from Germany, namely the 2010 training report, since the trainees themselves have announced how satisfied they are with the training courses. There lies the profession Ho telfachmann/Hotelfabriek in the last place, and the profession restaurant specialist/restaurant specialist in the last place. It is clear that, instead of teaching, young people are often used more often for auxiliary jobs or for auxiliary activities. This is very evident in this report. That is why I am pleased when Mr Obernosterer, who comes directly from this economy, believes that we also have to be very critical of the field of training and that the economy must also assume its responsibility. I have recently seen “Tourism’s Future – Institute for eTourism” publish a new volume on the topic of customer engagement in the Web 2.0, under the title “Social Web in Tourism”. This is also an important point: The whole IT area is simply a much more integrated part of training. The topic of ‘languages’ has already been addressed. I have seen that in Vienna the increase in the number of tourist attractions is mainly due to the access of Russian tourists. So the French, as mentioned above, will be rather of little help. New skills will be needed at all. For example, I looked at “School Ski & Board” – that is, simplifiedly said, the attempt to transfer Summer Splash – that is, the event character – to winter sports. I find this very exciting. This also fits our desire to make school winter sports weeks attractive again. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for Sport Darabos. It has created a three-year project for a coordination for school winter sports weeks, where all concerned are involved. But one thing is clear: If we want to further develop in Austria towards more quality tourism and more value creation – which we also want to achieve – the employees in tourism and the leisure industry also need new skills. However, we also need to ensure that the framework conditions are attractive for those who are already trained, so that they continue to like to stay in tourism, work there – and do not migrate to other jobs with their good training, because working conditions and payment in tourism are unfortunately often unacceptable. Here we are all called upon not only to have more value added as a goal, but also to allow the employees and employees in tourism to share this more in value creation accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21017	The next item is the speech by Mr Haider. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21038	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This is a five-party request, in which we call on the Minister of Economic Affairs, on the one hand, and on the Minister of Education, on the other, to develop measures to attract teachers in tourism, and on the social ministers to ensure that people who already work in tourism do so for a longer time. Let’s see why a youth is teaching tourism at all! – On the one hand, certainly, because you get a job relatively simply, because there is nothing else in the home town, and on the other hand you can get in the Ser vices with the drinking money also make relatively good – and a few of this profession will certainly also be convinced. But why do well-trained tourism professionals even change to other industries? – Because the payment is modest because the working hours are anti-family, because the professional reputation is not particularly good either. And now, I remember Mrs. Schatz's speech in the committee, which has criticized the fact that we have obviously only taken a general decision, almost all of which have been with Whischi, for decades, the politicians of government parties have repeatedly overlooked the importance of tourism and the people who work there. And how does it look in reality? – The real wage in tourism has been falling for years, many farms are over-indebted, traditional innkeepers, who also have an important social function, are driven away by Kebab buildings. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] I'm not going to miss out on the smoking ban or the non-smoker law now, because it's not paying off either. If the opposition then makes meaningful applications, such as shortening the depreciation period in the case of expenditure on wellness facilities – it is currently 33 years; I think that this is reluctance to write a sauna down to 33 years; it must be renewed at the latest after eight to ten years – so if you make meaningful applications, then they will either be pushed to the long bank or rejected. Another example: Each of you certainly knows hostess who say they would like to retire, their business has long been throwing away nothing, but they could not afford it because the silent reserves are so severely taxed that they cannot afford to afford it. If they locked the farm, they would also have to sell their house, then they would not even know where to live. If we address these issues, however, ladies and gentlemen from the Government parties show us that they prefer to make general requests. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen: There's also very little talk. At last you have to act, and you really have to complete a wide range of or further applications – and that is to conclude positively by deciding on them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21092	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21114	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we support this five-party proposal, as he has said, especially in his basic intention, but we believe that he is definitely too harmless and toothless, as Mr Haider has said and as I have already said in committee. Mr Markowitz, who was the initiator in this case, and I have tried to find formulations here to give the whole thing a little more salary, but unfortunately that was not possible. I would also like to say why I find this proposal so harmless and toothless. On the one hand, it was not possible to lay down any time limit in it, i.e. the need for the Minister/Minister addressed to account for any kind of accountability until a certain date. It wasn't possible. In other words, with this proposal we have almost already cementless. That's really unfortunate. On the other hand, I would also like to see the contents go on and not stay so much on the surface. With regard to the package of measures to attract teaching professionals: So far, the ÖVP has always said – and apparently also – that it is enough to invest a lot in PR, to produce as many PR resources as possible to bring young people into teaching professions in the tourism sector in this way. Today, Mr Obernosterer's speech has been a little different, and that was the fundamental intensification in the Committee. I am convinced, however, that the problems lie elsewhere. We finally need to rethink at all businesses that apprentices are not cheap workers, but a very, very important investment in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] We finally need a fair remuneration in the hotel and hospitality industry. In 2009, 50 percent of all in the host industry earned less than €1 300 gross. And we also need a different working time management, because, as reality now shows, it will not be that way that many new apprentices like to take up a job in the hotel and hospitality industry. In the Committee, Mr Obernosterer said to these things that the individual black sheep were not quite right. The report of the 2009 Labour Inspectorate says something different. It is thought that half of all violations of law have been found in connection with the employment of young people – half of all violations of law! –, only in the hospitality industry. So I'm sure you can't talk about some black sheep. That means: This also shows that we need much more than just PR to bring young people to the hotel and hospitality industry. As regards the request that Mr Markowitz will still bring in today, for the establishment or establishment of a teaching profession receptionist/receptionist, I must say that this is, so to speak, a too narrow a job for us Greens. We want to make it possible for young people to have a broader vocational training. In that respect, we do not think that this is the right direction. Mr Obernosterer really had many opportunities in the Committee to respond. I don't want to keep this from you. He has told us stories that the KIAB is mainly concerned with harassing the grandmothers in family businesses who unannounced care for the flower beds, while I realize that on the other hand there are reports that in Burgenland people are employed in the hospitality, have accidents at work, and are quickly brought across the border quickly after the accident, so that it is not obvious at the Austrian hospital that they are not insured, not registered. These are the two sides with which we have to fight here. I think it looks like this too, Mr Obernosterer, and I think we should all try to make this very strong sector of tourism in Austria really as quickly as possible a high-quality employment sector. But I fear that with this request – with this so harmless request! – let's not go much further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21199	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21222	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If you look closely at today's agenda, you see: The issue of tourism, although we live in a tourism country and have been generated by the tourism sector of €42.6 billion, will be put at the end of the agenda with a total of 15.4 percent of GDP, always with all that we have discussed in the Committee. So I think we don't need to be surprised if free apprenticeships are not applied to young people. This is clear to us – if you look at the external impact in the area of tourism in this House, you see it clearly – because all the debates we have about tourism are always taking place at the end of the agenda. [[Complementary and intermediate call to the BZÖ.]] - That's right. What was the reason why we made this motion for a resolution, tabled by us, by the BZÖ? – In March we found that we have 1 600 open teaching places in the tourism sector. There are other industries where there are many seekers and we do not have places. On the other hand, in the tourism sector we have 1 600 jobs, and it became clear to us that we need to change something about the attractiveness of these professions so that young people can work with joy in this sector again, and not every fourth apprentice stops training on this profession and every tenth changes elsewhere in this profession. And with older workers in the tourism industry, every fifth change the profession at all. Therefore, we must strive here to make this job more attractive for young people to find an attractive job in this area, because – what is more important – 50 percent of these apprentices will become hotel directors later on. That must be enough incentive! Show me another industry in which 50 percent of apprentices later find a high executive position. Because the profession receptionist has already been addressed: I was at the Austrian Hoteliers' Association, where we discussed new professions in this industry, and I was assured that 300 teaching places would be awarded in this division and that there has been a completed teaching profession for three years. When I look at the attractiveness: This is the book “Hotel and reception technology”. [[The speaker shows the book.]] Let's take a look at the cover. That's up to date. This screen, which is a computer – I don't know – probably from 1995. In view of this, we need not be surprised that young people do not take up this profession. And if I look at the content here: An entire page about phone storage and fax equipment, how I used a fax machine, but only a third of the page about the topic area “analogue, digital and Internet” – and that in times like this! So I'm really wondering, What do we want to explain to the Austrian young people with this programme? I mean, that's also because the professors, whose names are up here, are all teachers who put this in the summer break, write bag in 10 minutes and update a little. So, here it is up to all of us, and of course also to the competent to formulate these books more optimal and contemporary. [[Abg. Riepl:... Schoolbook, or what?]] That's incredible! That's actually yesterday, I think if you ask me. That is why I am also putting forward a motion for a resolution. Mrs. State Secretary, you said in committee that you were too far off and there would be niche professions. I do not think it is, because the receptionist is for me one of the most important professions in tourism. Why? – The receptionist is the first contact person. He embodies the hotel, the operation. He's the troubleshooter when you're in trouble. So for me, this is one of the most important persons, especially as regards the embodiment and representation of a company. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Although the comments of the Members who spoke in front of me were different, I would nevertheless ask that you still agree to this request, for the following reason: I believe that an additional profession will be created here in Austria-Tourism, which offers great opportunities for training and promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21292	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21368	I can still ask you to be patient for a second because the President will now make a statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21387	I shall take the chair very briefly. I have, of course, been informed of what Mr Stadler said in his speech as regards the LVT here in the House. I just wanted to tell you that, of course, it is a matter of course that we are going to talk about it in the presidency tomorrow. They all know that we have the National Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism here in order to protect us. That's been the case for decades. I've already had a phone call with the Minister of the Interior. I also receive a written statement from her. We will discuss everything further tomorrow in the Presidency. Mr Stadler's accusation was not unfounded. From my point of view, this is just as unacceptable and has to be stopped immediately. That's what I wanted to tell you at this point. We will discuss everything further tomorrow within the framework of the Presidency. Mrs Marek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21428	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In previous speeches it was already mentioned: The tourist labour market is actually a job engine in and for Austria, especially with a location guarantee in Austria. That's also the essential thing about it, that's what characterizes him. [[President Dr. Graf will again take over the presidency.]] In 2009, almost 180 000 people were employed in tourism, 5.5 percent of total employees with a well-knownly high female share of 60.1 percent, and there – as has been said – with very high chances of rise. We have very many women in leadership in tourism as in hardly any other sector. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Worm.]] To the apprentices in tourism: Mr Markowitz mentioned the number from March. The number of open apprenticeships in September – currently at present – is even much higher. It's 2,137. This is an increase of 15.5 percent compared to the previous year, i.e. a huge increase in overall trends. We had 573 job seekers in September. This is a drop of about 10 percent compared to the previous year. The staff requirement – and this is seen on the basis of these figures – is and remains very, very large. That means that it will be absolutely an outstanding topic, how we can keep the tourism industry attractive for employees or make it even more attractive. The international competition is a great one here, and we can really score only with high service orientation and good quality – this is what distinguishes Austrian tourism. With the implementation of the tourism strategy by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, particularly as regards the modernisation of tourism professions and careers, we have taken significant steps, on the one hand – and that has been addressed briefly – through the modularisation of teaching professions in tourism and on the other hand also through image campaigns to attract tourism professions. And this is not about pure PR – about beautiful speeches – but it is also about explaining: What can professions in tourism do, what can they accomplish, and what opportunities are there? This will be an essential topic for vocational orientation. Young people need to know what they expect in a profession, and in the full conviction of that they also choose the vocational training that is correct and optimal for them. There must be a mix of professional orientation and image campaigns and information. Mr Markowitz! There is a wealth of very, very high-quality brochures, from DVDs, also appearances at fairs – for example, the Best Fair, professional information fairs and much more – that are really high-level, and I think it does not help us to get out a single brochure here. I also believe that it does not change the orientation of young people, whether there is an item on the agenda at the end or at the beginning of the agenda, or whether a brochure may address three or four pages instead of just one job. As far as the tourism professions are concerned, we have made an essential step towards attracting teaching professions with modularisation – and here the discussion is very concrete – because it enables specialization, on the one hand, to bring opportunities for apprentices, on the other hand, more flexibility for businesses. I'm convinced That just the teaching profession of the receptionist can find place here in the form of a module. I don't think a single teaching profession makes sense only for this narrow segment. Above all, it is not enough just to look at the number of apprenticeships. Although there may be 300 in the Austrian hotels, the question of employment opportunities with this training must also be a priority and not only the number of potential apprenticeships. I did my own training in tourism. Especially for receptionists, it is important to be all-rounder, to know the whole business and to know what is happening in the hotel, in the hotel and in the gastronomy. We have commissioned the ibw, the Institute for Education Research of the Economy, to develop a draft for new module teaching professions, including advantages and disadvantages associated with it, involving experts from this industry. We already have a very specific timetable, Mrs Schatz, in preparation, which I have already mentioned in committee. By the end of October, the ibw will prepare a qualitative study of the needs of this industry and build upon it by the end of November. We will then officially present and decide on this as part of a round table with media support. In spring 2011, we will discuss and decide on the new teaching profession at the Federal Vocational Training Advisory Board at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This is our goal until June 2011. In autumn 2011, the framework curriculum, the regulation in the Ministry of Education and finally the review will follow, and then the entry into force as part of the 2012 curriculum package will follow in spring 2012. So there are concrete plans here. I welcome this request, and we very much support it. I believe that only when work together at all corners and ends succeeds in improving. What, I think, does not help us further – and we should not be surprised if, in fact, fewer young people choose to do so – is to mention, as Mrs Colleague, only negative examples when black sheep are asked in front of the curtain, drawing a picture of an industry that does not correspond to reality. There's always something between black and white. Especially in this area, when it comes to opportunities, one should talk about it – and not only about deficits, which are undisputedly natural as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21501	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21523	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of tourism, when it comes to apprentices and training, you can ask: Is this profession unattractive or attractive? I think it is very attractive because it receives excellent training and is ultimately sought not only in Austria, but in Europe as a whole and worldwide. It is precisely for this purpose that we must take appropriate measures. Why? – I just think it was a disadvantage that in 2009 we had a minus of 6.5 percent. I believe that these 6.5 percent are a disadvantage for young people. But I have also addressed this question accordingly: Do we need young people in this area or do we not need them? - We need her! Thank God we need them! And the trend is that a lot of young women and men are excited about their future in this field and say: I'm going to Austria, I'm going to Europe too, and I'm going to the world too! I would like to highlight the example of Bad Gleichenberg and present it here. Bad Gleichenberg offers excellent training and is also a framework for young people in this course of training. There is a specialist university for health management in the tourism sector. For Bad Gleichenberg there are a lot of demands across Europe and worldwide, where you try to bring young people there and put them there. I am very glad that there is a good training there for the future. I can only say one thing here: In the annual average it is far, far more than a thousand employees, and one can be glad to get a job there. Very good, I just want to say, is that there are 60 percent of women who get there, do their training, for which there are There is a need and those are then employed. I wish them all, all good for the future. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say the following: One can only wish the many young women and men who make their training there good for training and also that they get a job throughout Austria, across Europe and worldwide. I wish them all the best for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21568	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21589	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that tourism is an important economic factor in Austria. Tourism has also survived the economic crisis well; at least the Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Tourism and Leisure Division in Alpbach came to this conclusion. Nevertheless, we must ensure that we offer high-quality training. And there is a stocktaking that is very important so that the mistakes that are being made are no longer made in the future. There is a current study of the union vida among apprentices. 12,000 questionnaires have been sent out, 2 500 have been answered; this can be seen as a representative result. The summary is as follows: The lack of protection for apprentices in the hotel and hospitality sector is widespread. There are conspicuous gender differences in the areas of working time and employment for non-employment assistance. While the male apprentices are more often used for overtime and Sunday work, girls have to carry out non-professional auxiliary activities more frequently. The working environment is classified by 42 percent of young people as “satisfying ” or“ bad. ” Two thirds of the respondents consider the amount of apprenticeship compensation to be “not enough”. If you keep these figures in mind, then it becomes understandable that only 22 percent of the respondents want to stay in the company after teaching. There is therefore a need for action – and that is exactly where this request is being made – on the one hand, as far as the Federal Government is concerned, to develop a package of measures to attract. But, of course, the Federal Government can only define framework conditions. On the other hand, it also needs to be aware – and we must take the economy, the tourism and leisure industry into account – that we need to be aware of it. formal measures to ensure that the infringement of protective provisions is not a cavalier offence. The motion for a resolution to be adopted here should give rise to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21644	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21665	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have done it to myself when I have visited various schools to ask the students what they want to become. And it was very interesting: There was hardly any profession coming from the tourism industry except in areas where there were direct tourist communities. If you later met the former students and looked at what became of them – at class meetings or similar ones – then surprisingly many landed in this area, were happy and successful and did great jobs. I mean, that's where you have to go. In the recent study of the Chamber of Commerce, it was examined how difficult it is to find suitable apprentices in general in the establishments. At least 36 percent say “very difficult ” and 32 percent“ very difficult. ” And the main problem is that applicants are also too unfit for the apprenticeships. It is also stated in this study, based on a study by the Institute of Education Research this year: The main shortcomings of job seekers are accuracy, care, personal interest in the profession to be learned, logical thinking, understanding of work processes, ability to work independently – and this is very important in this examination of the Chamber of Commerce – as these skills and qualifications in the traditional education system can only be difficult to teach. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here on the core problem. In particular, I address my appeal to the progressive forces within the People's Party, to the progressive forces within the economy who see and also highlight these problems: We need a new form of training in the field of secondary schooling I, the ten to fourteen years old. We need to look after the students more individually. We must awaken their talents there, promote talents and, if there are shortcomings, balance them. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] If we want to get our young people to actually opt for professions very early – with “very early” I mean 14, 15, if they want to sniff about, those who do not want to study from the outset – then we also have to reform basic education, school education in such a way that the school can give it. Otherwise we can print a thousand papers, make a thousand brochures – whether there is half a page or a three-quarters side over the Internet or other inside, that is of little use! What we need is a qualified education in schools. This can only happen if we leave the good and the less good together and promote them where they can be promoted, namely, according to their abilities. And this new education system needs it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21711	The next speaker is Mrs Hakel. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21735	Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To the accusation that five-party applications are often too general and that nothing is happening there, I would like to say: The five-party proposal on winter sports weeks in schools has brought something very likely, because our sports minister has already complied with this call to attract the winter sports weeks. There were several round tables in April 2010. The result is a three-year pilot project. It was launched in October, where all the stakeholders involved are involved and are involved. To the teaching professions: The fact is that fewer and fewer young people go into a tourism teaching. Of course, we have to ask ourselves why this is so. – The payment is bad, there are family-unfriendly jobs and a year-round employment is often not possible either, because in many regions there is no tourism throughout the year. By the way, I am also opposed to such narrow-track teachers, such as only receptionist. Why? – In practice, this does not work. In practice, no receptionists are sought. In the district of Liezen, for example, the largest district: 11 percent work in tourism; 430 people are looking for work in tourism. Do you know how many receptionists are being searched? - Zero! And why is that so? – We only have two large hotel companies, two five-star companies in the district of Liezen; everything else is small pensions, small hotels where it is not enough simply to be a receptionist in, but you have to be highly trained there. You must be able to work at the reception, in service, in room care, in the kitchen. You need to be able to speak several languages. It is often also beneficial not only to speak English. You have to be trained in rhetoric and of course you can also conduct sales talks. In this direction, we should reorient the tourist teachers for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21775	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Linder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21796	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Training in tourism is certainly a whole, very high quality, one that offers young people many opportunities, many opportunities. I therefore believe that our problem is more of an image problem that we have. I believe that there are two approaches to this. An approach is certainly in vocational guidance in schools, and unfortunately I had to see for myself that young people were told there: If you really want to work every Sunday, you really want to work at the holidays, do you really want to work every holiday?- Oh, my God! I think that would be the first point where we should start and try to show this profession as an interesting and good profession. The second is certainly the problem of flexible working hours. When you know that the apprentice has to be freed every second weekend and that the interesting work is happening in many businesses every week, because buffets are designed because more demanding work is required, you have to be even more flexible and open there, as I think, in order to make this work more tasty to the youth. The second topic, which was addressed here, concerns the length of stay of the employees in the enterprises: On the one hand, older employees who want to stay and stay, on the other hand, that someone remains in tourism after teaching. There's the same thing. Those people who can divide it from the partner often have the problem that they do not have suitable childcare places, places that are closed at the holidays, which are also closed at Christmas time. As a result, the Federation, countries and communities should try to work together on a package that allows people to give children in kindergartens so that father or mother can work at holiday times. Many people would like to work in tourism, but because of the short seasons they have difficulty because they have to stamp a lot and are unemployed. There is a need to create even more flexible calculation times, so that employees can do overtime during the overtime hours, and that they can be employed all year round. I believe that if we succeed in concreteising this very general five-party proposal and achieving real results, it will be possible to keep the employees in the establishments longer – and to keep the fluctuations from tourism to other professions. Perhaps it is possible to tighten up the next five-party proposal, to make it more concrete, so that it actually comes to the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21852	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 935 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign of consent. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 125.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Markowitz, colleagues with regard to the creation of a profession and the teaching profession of “receptionists”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:35:48]] 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2010/3 (III-114/934 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21913	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Lap. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e21940	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The topic of care benefits concerns 400 000 people with their families in Austria, all of whom have different conditions and different needs, how they want to master and master their everyday lives together. Es also provides support for mobile services and stationary accommodation. Nevertheless, the Austrian care allowance, which has been available since 1994, can be described as a success story. The challenges for the future will continue to concern us, have already occupied us in the past – through the fact that in our society all people can get older, even in good care and care. There are several criticisms in this report of the Court of Auditors. This is a summary of several reports, where a parentheses was then placed on them. One of the main criticisms that we have also discussed in the Committee is the fragmentation of decision-makers. This means that there are a lot of places where you can apply for a care allowance. The Court of Auditors lists 280 posts here. It is true that 80 percent of the people who receive care benefits are present at the pension insurance institution, but also in the federal states. A suggestion has also been made. ==References== In January 2009, a reduction in the number of decision-makers with National Council and Civil Service Insurance took place. Further discussions with the Austrian Federal Railways and the General Insurance of Accidents are under way; that is, the Ministry recognises here the time when these decision-makers are to come together. Another criticism is the duration of the procedure until the recognition of the care allowance is given. Here too, an average duration of 61 days can now be recorded across all decision-makers. In case of an application for an increase in the care allowance, the average duration of the procedure shall be 54 days. Another point is the length of the procedure. This point was also presented by the Court of Auditors with very plausible figures. The need for 137 days for some decision-makers is related to past years and is now no longer the current status for the duration of the proceedings and also the increase in the amount of care. Another requirement is the introduction of an expert pool, i.e. the setting up of different common assessment pools across all decision-makers. To do this, we need to clarify some of the conditions. Finally, the Court's suggestions have been taken seriously and changes have been launched. It is also true that since 2009 additional hours have been recognised for the care of dementia and also for the care and care of disabled children. Also, the fact that pension insurance for caregivers now provides accident insurance and health insurance from a lower level of care benefit for the dependent family is a very important point. Of course, I would also like to point out that there are house visits, which means that it is very likely that people at home will not be left out, and that these house visits can always make it clear that there is a very good care network between caring relatives, mobile services and stationary services. Ladies and gentlemen! The care allowance will certainly affect us again and again in future debates. I assume that the Court of Auditors will again and again present its statements. I believe that this is a very essential point, that we are dealing with demography and also with how old age can be designed in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22007	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22028	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The care allowance is an important and indispensable support in the Austrian social system. Mrs Lapp has already said: It affects more than 400 000 people, but it also covers 37,000 people working in the care sector. It is therefore absolutely necessary – and the Court of Auditors has pointed out a lot in this respect, starting from 2006, – that we will focus the care money on the future. Especially when implementing the care allowance, it appears that it is a complex and extensive system. The evidence of this is that the Court of Auditors has shown that there are 280 bodies distributed across the federal, state and local authorities involved in the implementation of the care allowance. He also points out, however, that there are different legal bases, based on a federal care fund law and further over nine Landespflegegeldsgesetze. This has also been very critically questioned in the Committee. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has clearly worked out the complexity of the administrative reform that focuses on the care allowance. There are savings potentials, there are ways of improving efficiency, there are possibilities to re-regulate the responsibilities. It is important that we succeed in letting go there and there, and that those places that make the care money fill provide the best structures and guarantee performance. These are very important reforms, which the Court of Auditors points out in the five areas: for example, the requirement that we need uniform care schemes on a constitutional basis in order to avoid fragmentation of the legal basis. We need to manage the increased administrative burden, better and safer data. With regard to the duration of the proceedings, the Court of Auditors has shown that, for example, in Vienna, 70 percent of cases need more than 90 days, but it is quite possible to deal with the proceedings on average under 60 days. With regard to the opinions, the Federal Minister has launched a pilot project. It is about getting to grips with the opinions and shortcomings it has made. There is currently no uniformity. There is this pilot project, and Federal Minister Hundstorfer has assured the committee that there will be a regulation until Easter, who makes the first statement, who makes new findings. The Court of Auditors has also criticized the differences in fees. The care benefit circle is very different. Kärnten is more than 20 percent in the German section, and Vorarlberg is below it. That is why we need action. I think it's about getting a care system in quality and quantity in the future that we get slim and manageable structures, a fair and fair distribution, and that the money comes to the caregiver. What is also important – Mr Oellinger said this in the Committee – is that: All should make their contributions, public and private service providers. It was also found in the Court of Auditors' report that there are some professional groups that do not make deposits. In conclusion: The good thing is, it is clear, that there has been a commitment to the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. With regard to the topic of care funds, the Federal Minister has also assured that this will and will have to be regulated until the next financial compensation. It takes a concentration of procedures, a convergence of systems. It is because of the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations and the fact that this Court of Auditors report is also included in the much praised administrative reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22092	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22114	Mr President. High house! Dear Lutz! The Court of Auditors report in these very different areas has shown very well where action is needed everywhere: at the beginning – it was also tailor-made by my previous speakers – the care allowance, a fragmented structure with 280 posts in the federal territory that manages this whole system, various trainings, various care fees, federal health funds law, nine national laws to do something, of course, because of this legitimate criticism of the Court of Auditors by the government. We are happy to wait and hopefully not too long. The care, the care, is something that our needy people have an absolute right to do. They have a right to have rapid procedures. It is also about some details, such as the creation of a uniform pool for the assessors. There are such structural differences from experts, some of those who are very little burdened, some who make 37 percent of the total executions from one area. There are weights. I don't know if there's an objectiveion. Maybe he's an expert of the one official who decides there, better or better, that he's going to give him a job more. This is said to have already happened in various areas in Austria. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Another report. The following must also be said: It makes sense not only to examine the Court of Auditors and to point out the criticism points, but also to establish in the form of a follow-up check, a follow-up test as it stands – but for Lutz I say it is a follow-up examination – what has been implemented. For example, the accident-surgical care of the city of Linz – a cooperation between the AUVA and the AKH Linz – was examined and found that three of the five recommendations were fully implemented, one partly and one not yet. That'll be all right. It has to be positive and satisfying, not only for us as a member of the National Council, who has the Court of Auditors as an auxiliary body – that sounds somewhat deplorable: “as an auxiliary body”, but nevertheless – that one also sees – and that is the motivating one – that the Court of Auditors can also move in some areas. Interesting – especially for me – is the novel to the criminal order, which has been since 1. January 2008 is in force. In the course of the meeting, Mr Stadler has already pointed out some of what happened there and whether it is perhaps not so good that the judge no longer has the accompanying control. But this is not the case that the Court of Auditors would have to examine. It has been said that this changeover – an important work, a significant change in criminal proceedings itself – was not sufficient and not documented for monitoring, the introduction phase, the preparation. This is something I was allowed to notice from the practice itself and had to know that the interaction between the prosecutor's office and the police authorities and the like was almost unprepared. A very interesting approach, which is contained in the report, is the Court's view that the role and activity of district lawyers is more clearly regulated and, in particular, up-to-date. We are talking about points in the area of smallest crime. There is no need for major procedures here, which may then be difficult to assess at some point. That's something else. It's about microcrime. It is about better equipment, better training and also better, higher-qualified use, loosed from a law firm's activity. One thing is worrying, namely, when the Court of Auditors writes: It is therefore important to ensure that there is no accumulation of residues and that there is no limitation. – So, that’s certainly the last thing that a judicial administration in Austria, a highly developed rule of law, can afford to say: Our administrative capacity doesn't make it, we even buy restrictions! - It can't be. A final examination of the special offers for the ÖBB: 241 special offers have been made by the ÖBB for advantage tariffs or anything else, an unmistakable kudelmudel, actually critical points, which you can hear in various consumer protection magazines on the radio or always read when you check out a timetable, with a switch. You get any other information, but only not the best, even if no corresponding plan calculation and then no evaluation has been made. Obviously, you have to imagine this: It has someone on a desk an idea for a special tariff, that's enough, and that's then implemented and then somehow done, depending on the mood or information of the individual switch official or one's own knowledge. In the meantime, you have to be almost computer expert, if you are at the ticket machine, which is not even in the immediate range to the platform, such as in Spittelau – if you come from the subway, you first have to go to the rear corner so that you can solve the ticket, then you have to walk in the other direction to the platform – to solve a ticket. But transport policy in Vienna with metro connections was never the strength of social democracy. [[Abg. Riepl: That was “loving ” now!]] Total: Thank you for this report. We are already looking forward to follow-up reviews on these chapters, which hopefully will be crowned by success.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22159	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22181	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I could just do it right now and say, My previous speakers have already said everything! – Yes, I also agree with what was said by my previous speakers. Just, that's not the point yet. The point is first – and I have tried to stress that in committee – that: The Court of Auditors, with this report on the care allowance, has its master's piece. delivered after he had already delivered several parts of the company on the subject of care money with the result that no one touched an earwash. We have known what the Court of Auditors has described in this report for several years now. What happened? – I am hearing with “Ehrfürcht”, the National Council's rebursement office is now merging with the pension insurance institution's rebursement agency. Then we have 249 instead of 250 billing and decision-makers. It's great! If that continues with the merger of the decision-makers in the field of care money at the pace, then we are in ten or 15 years where we should actually be now. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. And this is very clearly addressed to the government parties. The Court of Auditors notes that the administrative burden is between about 3 per cent and 10 per cent of what is spent on care payments, depending on the place. It is only a little consolation that the 250 jobs that care for and decide on care money only decide on more than 20 per cent of care providers overall, because over 80 per cent of care providers already decide on a single institution, the pension insurance institution, and that obviously makes it quite good. Nevertheless, you all sit there unspoiled by the government parties and say: Yeah, yeah, something's going on anyway! We have already merged, the billing at the National Council is combined with pension insurance! That is, honestly, a little too little, even if there are still two or three decision-makers who have merged. I would like to give you some examples of what wild growth is going on in the field – and these are primarily in the countries – on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report. The RH report states: “In Salzburg, care money for retired municipal officials was administered by the respective municipalities, with no information available about their exact number in the state government. A single unit of organisation was responsible for all other groups of persons in the Office of the State Government.” Dozens of municipalities and a job in the country. The country does not know what the communities are doing so to speak. - Okay. Let's take a different example! “In Vienna, the administration of the care allowance was for state teachers, state teachers, and so on. Municipal servants, persons without pension and retired officials of the city councils of Vienna each divided into their own organisational unit.’ Not so drastic for Vienna yet! There could have been annoyed. But there are of course also federal countries such as Vorarlberg and Lower Austria. I am saving myself now to read in detail how many decision-makers are involved in the processing of the care allowance. There are also three federal states that have a decision-makers. Now I'm saying, It's still too little for me! What we need – and there is a lack of support from the back to the front of the government parties – is actually a federal legislation on the care allowance, which concludes with the totally missing federalism, which is a provincialism. We need – and the Court of Auditors has explained this clearly; I agree, that is our demand – nine countries in which the care allowance is carried out in accordance with uniform criteria speak of a uniform care performance for all of Austria. This means: a carrier and Nine countries. Off. Sometimes things can be as simple as that. That's all we need. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now I am finally coming to the point that has not been mentioned. For none of the speakers has said anything about this. The Court of Auditors also says: "There is no freedom of choice between outpatient and stationary care, independent of the income of care providers. It exists” – and please listen! – “no comprehensive insurance against the financial risk of the need for care. With the granting of the care allowance, it is not ensured that the necessary care services are offered, are manageable or are. are actually delivered high-quality.’ If you have read this sentence now, please explain to me as a representative of the government parties how you can now answer a reduction in the care allowance for €70 million for next year in a few weeks! What we need is more resources. What we should argue about is: How do we get the means? I would like to thank Mr von der ÖVP, who referred to the fact that I have already said in committee: Not all pay for the care allowance. Yes, if we can agree. But that will not be enough for the means we need. But it cannot explain why €70 million will be spent less on the care money next year. This is a social-political disaster. We do not need to discuss such a report if you are not prepared to take the consequences of punishing the administration, but we also need to use more resources, which are the funds that have been released, but also additional resources for this area. Everything else is indisputable.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22278	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22299	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The care situation in Austria has become a care case itself. This is not only what the Court of Auditors sees as it is the case, and it is also confirmed in the women's report. There are huge differences between countries in classification, and the quality of medical advice is also very critical, as the Court of Auditors notes. What the government is proposing here as a therapy will definitely lead to no improvement, but to a deterioration in the care sector. They are planning cuts at care levels 1 and 2, i.e. for those concerned themselves. I can remind you that more than half of the care providers are in Stages 1 and 2. And above average, many children and dementia suffer from older people. You know that, and still invent You now seem to have other bureaucratic obstacles here, in order to reduce the number of care recipients. We will certainly not participate in this curfewry, ladies and gentlemen, BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A Rosskur would be necessary somewhere else, in the case of administrative expenditure in the care sector. In the countries, in the social insurance sector and in the Federal Republic of Germany, the money that would be urgently necessary for the care sector is being sent there. But instead, you want to stick to a paragraph end, through which the processing of care applications takes partly so long that those concerned no longer experience the disbursement at all. This is still sad reality, Mrs. Lapp. You said that before, but that is still happening. The care sector is one of the most important topics for our country, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we call for a comprehensive rescue package from the BZÖ for care in Austria – in the interests of the caregivers, the caregivers and those working in care professions. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if I recapitulate the speeches of my previous speakers, then I must say, I cannot imagine that any party does not agree with this request today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22388	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22476	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22497	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! With this comprehensive cross-sectional examination, there is a document that allows basic statements on the granting of the care allowance. I would like to highlight an important point in this criticism of the Court of Auditors. It is said in this report that the granting of the care allowance does not ensure that the necessary care services are offered at all, or are actually provided in high quality. In this context, a problem area is addressed and as a practical example a case with suspicion of custody is mentioned. The example shows very well where the problem lies: It's about a couple, she gets care level 4, he goes up at care level 2 at the BVA. Now it is true that additional benefits are not allowed at all by the man, who is also described as extremely rigid and inconspicuous. It is very difficult, the situation is described as particularly careless. It is very difficult for the BVA to achieve the most necessary services at all. Under threat that payment of the money will be discontinued if it is not used accordingly, the caregivers may then interact with the couple that additional care is at all permitted. This is also very often the problem. A threat is certainly very useful in this case, but of course it is a grey zone in which one has moved. Therefore, it is also appropriate, as proposed by the Court of Auditors, to introduce appropriate time-limits for re-examination. I thank you for the recommendations contained in the report and believe that we Members will have to deal very intensively with the care problem in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22538	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22559	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the Court of Auditors has examined a very important matter, namely the execution of the care allowance. The care payments and the costs of them will still be very busy for us in the near future. In the course of the debate in the Committee, it was clear that: that we are currently applying many different standards throughout Austria – in nine federal states. In a federal law, we are necessarily obliged to introduce uniform standards. In my view, this will be one of the major challenges for the future. We currently have at federal level costs of about €2 billion of paid care money, at national level it is about €350 million, and in total, as Mr. Hundstorfer has told us, it is with the stationary area cost of about €7 billion across Austria – for about 412,000 care professionals. If we also want to finance this in the future – enough to finance – it will be absolutely necessary for everyone to pay into this system, and it will probably also be essential that those affected – I mean workers who are in employment but also pensioners – participate in the form of a care fund with a reasonable burden. From my point of view, this is not likely to create both material and humanitarian special challenges. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22601	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22623	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address an area which has also been dealt with in this context, but which has not been discussed in detail in the Committee, namely the implementation or the questions relating to the examination of farm premiums. It is therefore a question of promoting the first pillar of agricultural policy. These are amounts that are significant: It's about €600 million in disbursement amounts. This report also contains a detailed chapter on the conduct of checks in Austria and a participation of the Court of Auditors in an audit of the European Court of Auditors. I think it is interesting to talk in this House about how the transparency of European controls has actually been clarified or how they become visible in the political arena of the agricultural policy debate, because from my point of view this is unfortunately too short. I would just like to take a few key points out of this report. First of all, it is interesting for me to say that two companies were selected from around 7 300 controls – that is just over 5 percent, as is planned. That is to say, the European Court of Auditors has only carried out a formal review in the AMA for two farms and then with farmers. In one case, it was found that there were payments of about €5,000 that were not correct, so a refund was necessary. Now you can say, well, that's actually not a really high amount. Mr President, the reason why I ask this question and why it is important to me is that it is also interesting whether, when considering the consistency of a programme, it is also possible to review the politically relevant consistency of this programme. I would like to illustrate this using an example. I was recently in the AMA with a specific problem. It is about the fact that a small farm – a four-hectare farm from Salzburg – that drives its animals to an alm that has always made correct and correctly reported – and that is not a single case, there are many – is suddenly faced with the fact that a control body, a test body of the AMA has found that the Alm is smaller than the Almobmann has indicated for years. Until recently, this was not the responsibility of the invading farmer, that is, the farmer who has driven the animals to the pasture. What is the consequence? – So complex are the systems today. This small operation is desperate because it has to pay back more than €7 000 – a 4 hectares operation! It must pay back all subsidies for several years without making a single comprehensible mistake for it. In this case, the technical testing service of the AMA has confirmed several years before that the alm is so large. I have tabled this to Mr Griesmayr of the AMA, who also asked him to examine this, and he has found that, unfortunately, there is nothing to be done. This level of political review of consistency, trust and plausibility – the systems! – seems to me to be completely underexposed, including in European controls. I would ask you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, that you also look at this level. Tag Sanctions Catalogues: Which farmer in Austria knows today what penalty is due on him in the event of what violation? - Not one! If I park in the city centre of Vienna wrong, I can calculate very well what this will cost me. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: 21 €!]] – 21 €, says Mr Van der Bellen. I've never parked here and, thank God, never got a penalty, but well, I can calculate it, I can inform myself, I get an understandable answer. Unfortunately, these farms do not receive such an answer. I therefore mention a recommendation which is a bit related to that contained in the report, and I would really consider it necessary to deepen it. It is in the recommendations that ‘decisions to farmers should be made in such a way that the calculation of payment entitlements is fully comprehensible’. – Yes, Mr President, this is the one side of the medal! However, it would also be necessary for the sanctions measures, as in the sense of legal certainty, to be usually presented in a transparent manner. - It's up to this day. The AMA is not prepared to make public the sanctions they are expected to impose on the people, to the people concerned, to their standard subjects. I do not think this is all right in the sense of legal certainty and would ask you to further in this respect the tests on consistency and plausibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22662	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22684	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the care allowance results in a very critical assessment with the result that the performance is presented as inefficient and that the persons concerned are also faced with numerous obstacles. It has undoubtedly been introduced as a social policy milestone in 1993, with the aim of enabling those concerned to live a life as independent and need-oriented as possible, and also with the aim of ensuring that those concerned decide for themselves where to take care, and also who should carry out the care. In the meantime, we consider this area to be worth €2.2 billion for 425 000 people. The ongoing development of care provision naturally entails additional costs, such as the protection of caregivers, 24-hour care or the improvement in dementia, so that we currently have a total cost of € 7 billion for the care. Demographic development will also present us with further challenges, so that we are well advised to listen to the Court of Auditors' voice and quickly ensure that the care sector is organised efficiently and economically and that the care funds under discussion are introduced very quickly and in sufficient dosage, in order to provide the basis for the next generations to also have the opportunity to age in dignity.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22720	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22741	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Many talk about care – from the green table, in theory – but few do something. I can only say – especially on some statements by the opposition – that: Tun is admirable, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the criticism of the Court of Auditors is serious, but the care is not bad, because the care is not a care case as expressed by the BZÖ here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Absolutely a care case!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:The BZÖ...! What is the solution?]] Of course, we have problems with financing, with the administration. In view of this multiple fragmentation, we need restructuring, since the Court of Auditors is completely right, but we also place great confidence in the future conception and, above all, in our Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer. I am just saying a word about care funds, a very important point in the government programme, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria there is no need for care, it is not a care case, but Austria is an example in care for many countries, one could almost say a model country, because here over 35 000 people work exemplaryly with high quality in care. – I would like to express my thanks to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22792	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22814	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by thanking you for addressing all the reports included in this report today in the debate. I hope that you will allow me, in particular, to look at the problems facing us. in the field of care, a little closer attention is being given to care, because it was a matter which the Court of Auditors had already focused on in 2006. The Court of Auditors has examined 21 decision-makers by 23 decision-makers – six social security institutions, nine federal states, the Oberösterreich State School Council, the Federal Social Office and four public undertakings – and it has been shown in this area that the legal bases are fragmented, that the executives are very flawed, that the medical opinions are partly inadequate and that administrative implementation is left to be desired. This has also led to the fact that the care money has not arrived in accordance with the objectives of the Care Money Act as planned, quickly and civilly. If you look at the legal bases, you can see that we have ten care benefits laws in this area – a federal health insurance law and nine national care laws. We have our own classification regulations. This means that while the principles are uniform, the implementation is, in fact, extremely different. However, we also have the problem that there are, on the one hand, consensus papers that apply to social security institutions, but not to the countries, and on the other hand, we have consensus papers, which apply to countries, but not to social insurance companies. It has already been mentioned today: We've been since 1. January 2009 23 decision-makers. We have at least 280 executives, and it is not clear how many executives actually exist in the individual federal states. In five out of nine federal states, we have several departments responsible for the office of the state government. In four federal states, we have the problem that the municipalities themselves carry out the care allowance – this has already been mentioned. In Styria, for example, there are 68 municipalities for 151 care providers, in Upper Austria there are 115 municipalities for 166 care providers. The social security funds have their own national offices and regional offices. We have public enterprises, and they, of course, have their own regional staff offices. The Postbus alone has six regional staff offices. But the supervision is also shared: On the one hand, the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection is responsible, on the other hand the Federal Ministry of Finance, namely for public enterprises. It is therefore not even possible to exercise uniform supervision. But now to the consequences: There is, of course, an increased administrative burden by fragmentation. There are only 1 800 decisions per year for change of jurisdiction. At the same time, there is a greater need to vote. And this also leads to the need to carry out new reviews. And even for those in need of care, the difficulty is that they do not know who is actually responsible. For example, every second request was forwarded to the railway undertaking because it was not known who was actually responsible. And all of this, of course, has also led to an extension of the duration of the proceedings. We also do not have a uniform data base in Austria. There is a Bundespflegebank, but it lacks more than 20,000 care providers, because the countries have no obligation to register – and they do not do so to the fullest extent. The recommendation to submit data has only been fully complied with by four countries. Finally, however, we also have different administrative costs. They have decided by law or in explanations that the administrative costs should be between 2 and 2.5 percent. In fact, they are partly up to 10 percent. This too has already been mentioned. There is a different staffing in this area and an average process duration of 40 days up to 137 days. The business processes are different, the IT systems are only unified with the pension insurance institution, otherwise not. The payment of the care allowance is made partly at the beginning of the month and partly at the end, with differences also within the countries. In the same country, the care allowance is paid at the beginning for some of the persons involved, for one part at the end. As far as recovery is concerned, there are different margins of luggage: These are between zero and 250 €, although in this respect there is a decree from the Ministry, which provides for 150 € as a bagatoll limit. Care decisions are partly not understandable because the hours of classification and the necessary care measures are not indicated in the notice. We also have the problem that there are no uniform standards for the determination of the under-supply, say the custody, so that one cannot determine when the care allowance should be replaced by the actual benefit. Finally, the problem of the assessors has already been addressed: We have over 1 150 experts who have produced 172 000 opinions, an expert has an opinion, another expert 2 300 opinions in one year. At the same time, we have the problem that the care allowance will be measured on and on the domestic environment. At the same time, however, most of the actual care allowance classifications have been carried out without visiting the house. Yes, even in the provided forms, it was not possible to fill out how the domestic conditions are. Training in this area, which would be necessary and whose need has also been addressed by the Social Minister in the Committee, is not mandatory, which is why some social insurance companies alone have the professional power to carry out such assessments. These circumstances, which I have briefly described, are precisely the result of the fact that up to now the care allowance cannot be paid quickly by citizens in accordance with the objectives of the law. It is evident – as in the field of education and health – that the money that is used does not come to the fullest extent of the care needy. So it would be good to actually give it to the Minister of Social Affairs in order to be able to take measures to ensure that the care money comes to the caregiver. It would therefore be necessary to significantly reduce the number of decision-makers and decision-making bodies, to provide for a legal entity in each country, to concentrate supervision in the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, to create a uniform legal basis for the granting of the care allowance, and, of course, to provide for a controlling with clear rules on how long a procedure for granting the care allowance may actually take. These measures would be necessary in order to enable a more targeted use of the care allowance, and on the other hand, it would be possible to use the care allowance properly in the future and to better cover the additional care needs and the increasing costs in some way. This is a situation which would be necessary in order to be able to solve the problems precisely in this area, which is very much in the social field, which is why the Court of Auditors can only request that the recommendations be actually taken up and that measures be taken to actually improve this situation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22927	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-114 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, fellow Members, on comprehensive improvements in the care sector. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:24:53]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e22982	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, ladies and gentlemen, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 928/A(E) by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, on: '6 out of 45' is too little – all children's rights in the Constitution, a deadline until 15. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:25:36]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00080_d7e23013	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1294/A to 1315/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 6649/J to 6686/J were also raised. Finally, a request from the honourable Member is Mag. On the ground, ladies and gentlemen, 50/JPR has been sent to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 21. October 2010, 10 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The sitting is closed.
