ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6461	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 69. Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 In June 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Donabauer, Großruck, Ing. Hofer, Neubauer, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, Windbüchler-Souschill and Dr. Spadiut. [[09:06:19]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6495	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Member Gerhard Steier has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council in his capacity as Member Erwin Preiner. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the woman writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I would ask the author, Mrs Anna Franz, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6537	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6555	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6571	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:07:03]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6598	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Families-friendly Austria: Balance and prospects for the future’ The meeting will be held today from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 13.15 a.m. to 3 p.m. As First of all, Mrs Steibl has spoken. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6628	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisors The TV screens! The promotion of families is a central political concern in Austria. Austria, with its funding to families, is in the leading field in Europe. ‘Families-friendly Austria: Balance and perspectives for the future” under this title is the current hour. The Austrian Family Report, which is before Parliament, is also a debate here – a report that has been dealing with the last ten years. This decade has truly done a lot, both in family policy and in the families themselves. The family today shows itself as a colorful, diverse picture. Family, these are small families, large families, they are common or separate households, they are single parents and patchwork families. It is precisely this diversity that needs to be addressed in family policy today and that it should help families in their different ways of life and needs as best as possible. There the family report speaks a clear language, the language of a family-friendly Austria that we have designed in recent years. In this context, I would also like to thank the current experts in the ministries, namely Mrs State Secretary Christine Marekund, of course Family Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, expenditure on family policy measures is the third largest category of expenditure according to the expenditure on pensions and health at around 10 per cent of social expenditure. That shows the value of family. At this point, I would just like to highlight some of the most important measures that Austria has taken to the European top with the financial benefits for families, for parents and for the benefit of children. As far as financial support is concerned, I would like to start with a real milestone, the childcare allowance introduced in 2002. Thus, the first time the care effort for young children was paid at least partially, regardless of whether insurance periods previously acquired by the parents were there. The goal is a diverse, flexible offer, which meets as far as possible all wishes and ideas regarding personal life-design. Freedom of choice was very much written with the two reforms of child care money and, accordingly, the options for mothers and fathers were constantly extended to the latest step. There are now four set-aside variants and an income-dependent variant, which was also included in the ÖVP election programme, which the government has now decided, under State Secretary Christine Marekund Vice-Chanceller Finance Minister Josef Pröll, with the government partner, that mothers and fathers can choose, depending on what is best suited to the personal life model, depending on what is best suited to the combination of work and family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family and children, that's the future of our country. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] It is very crucial to take a different view, because our families are not only to be seen as beneficiaries but also as investors. They are of great importance in their immediate environment...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6698	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to reduce the noise level! Please, Mrs. Deputy. e.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6721	Thank you, Madam President, I have already considered how much family in this Parliament is worth. I know it's a nice morning, but I think this topic too is very brilliant and very interesting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I said that families are not only beneficiaries but also investors. They are particularly important in their immediate environment, provide services for our society and therefore need to be respected, observed and thanked. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, the better compatibility between work and family is a significant keyword and, fortunately, not an empty keyword in the Austrian family policy. Especially in recent years, this has been filled with a lot of life and has been associated with many reliefs and improvements for the families. In addition to the childcare allowance, the initiatives for the extension of the childcare offer and the nationally half-day, free and mandatory free-school year are key points, including in connection with accident insurance, which we decided on in the last committee, so that our five-year-old stems are now also accident insurance. One issue that concerns a very sensitive point is family hospice, which is an important support for families in already very difficult situations, namely in the case of caring for their seriously ill child. In this way, a significant measure has been adopted for those concerned. I would also like to draw attention to the right to parental leave, which is always forgotten, or to the billing of child training periods for the pension. A maximum of the first 48 months after the birth of a child are taken into account as the times of child rearing. We have also made further improvements over the years. It is now based on a value-secured contribution base. Currently for 2010 the review takes place monthly at €1,528. I think this is a measure that shows the value of child rearing. Similarly, it is always important to have the economy as a partner. And I mean, in the end, entrepreneurs also benefit economically from family-friendly practices. Especially in difficult economic times, employees who are equipped with family competence are an important operational factor. The financial support is a significant point, which is out of question, and in this area we have also set priorities, in particular by the ÖVP, in order to support families with children financially, with the increase in family support, with the increase in the multi-child supplement, not to forget the tax reforms in recent years, with the single-earner or single-earner reduction amount, also with the new child supplements and in 2009 also with the tax reform under Finance Minister Josef Pröll. But it does not only need financial support, it also needs support in crisis situations, especially when it comes to common care. A short time ago, a survey on this subject took place. For the benefit of the children, we need to find a way to a common care after divorce. We also need to rethink and redefine the role of fathers. As Professor Mazal says: The story is full of absent men in the family, in school. Of course, it is important not only to look to the future in this area, because family is our future. It is up to us in politics to create framework conditions for families in Austria to pave the way for their future. The family policy of the ÖVP promises family kindness and support, and as the family report also shows, we keep the promises we give to our families, and we give families a secure future. We stand by our family policy with the best conditions for family and children to have a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6794	Mrs Marek spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6816	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Austria over the past ten years, we have introduced many innovative family policy services in almost all family-related areas, thus setting significant milestones in family policy, especially in those important areas where it is important to support the families essentially. You will also find these milestones in the very comprehensive family report for the period 1999 to 2009. At this point, I would like to thank the many experts who have worked on it, as well as the employees of our home, the family ministry. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, financial justice has been a crucial success when it comes to securing families financially when it comes to the compatibility of family and work. Important steps have been taken here, but also in the area of better protection against violence in the family and in the social neighbourhood, which unfortunately is more up-to-date than ever. In comparison with our high monetary family benefits in Europe, but also with the – Mrs Steibl has mentioned it – extensive benefits are in the absolute top line. That's where we can really show ourselves. The fact is, however, that we must always strive to get even better. We are not yet where we want to be and should be. Family and family with children are still the top priority among Austrians in the areas considered particularly important. It is therefore very important for us that we support the Austrians as much as possible in the fact that they can actually live family in all their forms. What are the examples of milestones we have set in family policy in recent years? – An essential issue, a key challenge for the future, is the compatibility of family and work, if not even the central issue. Mrs Steibl referred to the childcare allowance, which was introduced in 2002 with a paradigm change that accompanied it. We have now developed it twice. ==References== In January of this year, there are now four package variants and an income-dependent variant. The current figures show us the first trends that say that we are right with this further development. For example, 15 percent of parents now opt for one of the two new short variants, only five months after the introduction. Father participation in these variants is also extremely positive after just five months, and I am very optimistic that in these variants we will actually reach the target 20 percent father participation in the medium term. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Something we are very proud of is the introduction of tax deductibility of child care costs by 1. January 2009. With this and with the common initiative In recent years, we have been on a good and right path to the development of institutional childcare facilities, as this is a central measure for the reconciliation of family and work. The current Children's Home Statistics 2009/2010 shows that our joint actions – federal government, countries and local authorities – enabled us to increase care rates in all age groups. This too is proof that we are right in our initiatives. We know that we still have a piece of the way to reach the Barcelona target, but I think we are on the right track and will also achieve the goals. The introduction of the free compulsory half-day kindergarten year for the five-year-olds was also an essential step in the right direction, especially because the kindergarten is now finally recognized as an educational school. All children should be given the same opportunities for entry into school life, for their educational course and be encouraged as much as possible. A very important aspect, of course, is family benefits in the monetary field, the financial security of families. In this area, we have been able to achieve significant improvements in our actions over the last ten years, such as the siblings in family support, the increase in the income limit for the multiple child supplement, but also the 13th. Family allowances. All of these are essential steps towards even better support for the families. The families, ladies and gentlemen, are also among the big winners of tax reforms in 2005 and 2009. As part of the 2005 tax reform, for example, the number of single-earner or single-earner deductions was increased by the new child supplements. But also the amount of child allowance and the tax deductibility of child care costs, I have already mentioned it, are essential steps towards increasing family income. It is also very important that we support families in all their living situations, including in the education of children. With parental education offers, our target group specific parents' letters, but also a comprehensive network of 400 family advisory services, we have Austria's most important tools to assist parents in their education tasks. The fight against violence in the family or in the social neighbourhood is an essential concern for all of us. We have achieved a high level of international reputation with the highly respected anti-violence laws and have created essential conditions for the effective fight against violence in the social neighbourhood. Research is also being carried out in this respect. A study in which the impact of the ban on violence in the family, which was adopted by the National Council in 1989, on the education of children, shows that human minds have created a corresponding awareness. Many parents, compared to other countries that do not have such laws, do not use violence in education, they have a much better attitude so that it can be noted that a paradigm change could be achieved in this respect among people. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the topic of sexual abuse is more up-to-date than ever – today there is another media report about a school. I think we have a common effort to make. Therefore, in April 2010, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner and I invited a joint “round table” with around 30 experts. A very essential result – particularly appealing to the school – is an interdisciplinary body of experts, which is responsible for The issue of sexual abuse in institutions is being discussed. In this body, highly-furnished experts advise on the specific situation in the institutions and, as a result, work out suggestions on how to prevent sexual abuse as far as possible, so that such things, as they are still present in the media today, can no longer happen in the future. I think we are jointly responsible for this subject area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the child's well-being must be at the heart of all measures for the families, whether they are concerned with care or other measures, which is probably undisputed. The Child Assistance Act, which was adopted at the end of last year, has taken an essential step in providing representatives and voice tubes for minors and in setting up appropriate framework conditions for children in the event of child care disputes. The reform of childhood law in 2001 with the introduction of common care is also an essential step. This scheme, which is very successful, is also the basis for the current discussion on the further development of the common care. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussions on the budgetary security of family benefits are very up-to-date. Let me conclude by saying: It is a challenge for us and our central responsibility that we constantly review the family budget for broad sustainability. They know the budgetary framework we have, and we are responsible for working through and securing the family budget in this respect until autumn – and we are here with our experts in very intensive discussions. The sustainable security of the budget lies in our shared responsibility. It is therefore very important to us that we do not continue to insure the families with individual speculations. I believe that this is also the responsibility of the House. We will put in place a budget in order to secure the family budget and secure the future of our families in the autumn, and I would ask you to make a constructive contribution and take responsibility. Austria is and remains a family country, and we will continue this successful family policy – also in terms of our values – in the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6941	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour is 5 minutes according to Rules of Procedure. As First of all, Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6965	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In our government programme, we have established that families with their educational and care tasks to children and those in need of care are responsible for family cohesion, as well as for society and also for generations. The compatibility of work and family is certainly one of the most important priorities, Mrs Marek has already referred to it. This is a political challenge, a task that is always about the child's well-being. And what I'm talking about today is that the child, the youth. It should be noted within the family that it is an equivalent partner and that mutual respect for children must be a priority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It also changes the role of parents. We support an active paternity, which is already a reality with all measures, such as the change in the child care allowance with which the father's involvement is forced shortly after birth. But we also need to ensure that the father's work law, social law and financial security are given. In this context, there have already been models, such as the Papa Moon, in which one could catch up. Such measures would be positive in the sense of a modern partnership between parents, and the role understanding between mother and father would be strengthened. At the same time, we have also stated in the Government Agreement that young people are the most important potential for the future of our country and a united Europe. How the state develops depends on investment in our youth. This begins with the recognition of kindergarten as an educational institution, continues through schooling to the profession. But then my colleague Kuntzl will go further. I firmly believe that an active and good family policy can only work on the basis of a good labour market policy, because only the person or person who can live independently because of his or her professional income can actively participate in the design of the future – his or her own future and the future of his or her children. This begins, as said, at the kindergarten, through schooling, study, teaching ultimately up to the profession. Yesterday, in the television show “Report”, a report was made on the fact that young people move out of their parents’ homes later and later. This certainly also depends on the fact that the financial framework conditions for young people are not so good, but it is only possible to extract when a corresponding financial background is given to the parents – or, unfortunately, young people have to make debts, so that they often get into a wheel from which to get out is very, very difficult. I would like to highlight family policy a little bit from the point of view of young people, with regard to youth unemployment. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has done a great deal against youth unemployment. Statistics, which are now available, also show that we have a sharp decline in youth unemployment among 15 to 24 year olds. In June, a 10 percent minimum was recorded. In a European comparison – as the Secretary of State has already said – we are third. It is true that every single youth who has no job is one too much, but I think that all measures are being taken to promote young people so that they can shape their future. In the first half of 2010, 74 000 young people came into employment after unemployment. Over-company training makes a significant contribution to the return of young people to normal working life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, Mrs State Secretary, there are also a few construction sites to be found. The unified protection of young people is still not implemented, and the implementation of the Federal Children's and Youth Assistance Act, with regard to which you, Mrs. State Secretary, had set the goal of making it with 1. Unfortunately, it is still waiting for its entry into force on July. That is why I would like to appeal once again to you – you also said it in your remarks – to raise both the financial and the human resources in order to support those children whose family unfortunately does not “function” as we imagine it to be. That means there's still a lot to do – a lot has already been done. Through an active family policy, we can contribute to the co-existence of the families, which is about the future of our children and young people of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7050	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7071	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Let's be honest: As good as we are now in Austria, it has never happened to us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call:But not long]] That also has its reasons. Especially for families and children – You have already heard it – it has been done a lot in the last decade – the Secretary of State and also Mrs Steibl have already mentioned a lot: We have family allowances, we have an income dependent child allowance, we have study grants, and, in my view, we have introduced the tax deductibility of child care costs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all those who make this possible. I do not thank the politicians, but I thank all those Austrians who pay taxes, because only through tax revenue can we finance all these grants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we also need to talk about whether this is still in line with what we have done. We need to evaluate everything. But we also need to ask if we can afford all of this. And we have to ask who pays. Ladies and gentlemen, 52 percent of the Austrian population are women. Of these 52 percent women, 67 percent are not fully employed – among them very, very many entrepreneurs. All these women are very well trained, they want to practice their profession so that they are independent and independent, but they also want to have family and children. The latest studies show that the average Austrian wants two children, but the average number of children per Austrian is only 1.4. What does that mean? – It shows us that, on the one hand, ageing is increasing, but on the other hand, we have to expect an blatant shortage of skilled workers in the future – and on the other hand, we have to do something! What are we doing? – Against the ageing of society, we must create a framework for women to say yes to the child that women achieve their goal of really having two children. A great deal has already been done in this context. We need to make childcare more manageable, but above all flexible, because there are more and more jobs in which you do not work from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., but in the evening, on weekends or on holidays. That is why we must also make it possible to improve child care at a later stage, whether in public institutions or through tax deductibility, so that care can also take place at home. What do we do about the shortage of skilled workers? – As mentioned earlier, around 67 percent of women are in the work process. That means that there is still potential. We need to make it possible for women to have a good education. You need to be able to continue your education – and at all: Education, I think, is essential in this situation. For me, education, training and training are a prerequisite for equal opportunities, and they should definitely have women. I would also like to bring you a best-practice example from the economy. For many years there has been the concept of women- and family-friendly businesses, which really create a win-win situation – both for companies and for employees, because they are very motivated, they are much loyal to the company, the stress is not so extreme, and there are also much less days of illness, so overall productivity and, of course, satisfaction increase. Ladies and gentlemen, the family is the smallest cell of our society. And our society is as strong as its smallest and weakest cell. That is why it is very important for us as a family party, for us as the Austrian People's Party, to strengthen this small cell. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We will also do so in the future, for a strong family, for a strong community and for a strong Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7123	Mrs Kitzmüller is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7144	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear listeners here in the house and at home! Ladies and gentlemen! Last year's birth rate has also fallen – and today we are talking about a family-friendly policy for Austria's families when birth rates are constantly declining?- Oh, my God! – There should be something wrong with that! It is high time to make family-friendly and especially child-oriented, birth-oriented policies. It is striking that especially the middle class, the powerful middle class, has fewer children. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we have to stop. It is about strengthening the middle class and strengthening the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If savings are announced in the area of families, then we can get warm, because then after the elections in Vienna and in Styria a lot will come to us. If, in an interview with the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), our Mrs. State Secretary has already announced the abolition of the 13. To think about family aid, what will be after the elections? We have already created a petition to this 13th. Family allowances. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also promises nothing good for us Austrians if we look at the social partners' action paper. This is about saving €440 million in family support, ladies and gentlemen! This paper also says that kindergartens and not children should be promoted at home – kindergarten instead of cash. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the freedom of choice, the freedom of choice of families, how they want to care for their children, whether state or home? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of working against the families, it would be time to work for the families. It would be time to carry out the long-term valorisation of child support and family allowance. We heard, in 2002 she became – wonderful! – introduced and thought-out. Since 2002, there has been no valorization, nothing more. ==References====External links== Family aid was introduced because it is much easier to remove a family aid, which was introduced in addition, than to reverse any increases. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not what anyone says!]] The family also needs a new control system. It is time to introduce our model of family tax division, ladies and gentlemen, to promote the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: We want to get what we have!]] It must not be that families are being pushed more and more into poverty, the more children they get. Hands away, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, from the long-term variant of child benefit! The long-term variant should continue to exist. Families should be able to decide whether they want to stay home for long or not. [[Abg. Steibl: That doesn't change anyone!]] It is thus pushed into state care. Of course, the creation of enough kindergartens and childcare facilities will also be necessary. No question, that is necessary. This is the freedom of choice that we imagine. Another proposal from us goes towards family-friendly working world, ladies and gentlemen. Discrimination of parents on the labour market must cease. Therefore, we liberals demand that, if they have the same qualifications, they have a job to fulfil the obligations of care towards children and a family. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our next proposal, which we have had for many years, is to remove the limit of merit. We have seen that the limit of merit was not the yellow of the egg either. ==References== Family report, already mentioned so much today, was very interesting, very important, but it was only important to our Secretary of State until mid-term. When the experts came to speak, she was no longer present. [[Abg. Steibl: What are you talking about?]] The Austrian families need appropriate framework conditions. The Austrian families need support and help, but no state constraints on how to shape their families, how to meet their family planning. You can't beat everything about a performance. Ladies and gentlemen, wake up and finally make politics for the Austrian families and for our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7258	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7279	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Since today the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-President will come to Parliament on the occasion of the next item on the agenda and explain why they are unable to present a budget in good time, and why they are forced to break the Constitution would it have been very interesting if you had used at least this current hour to talk at least about the family budget such a thing as clear text or to dispute certain things. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have now spent a relatively long time explaining what has been in the last ten years, and on the basis of the family report, your achievements have been presented since 2002. I believe that what people are now interested most is the question of how it will continue. You tried to answer that with a sentence to the end that I can't decrypt. This is because you have spoken about the sustainable security or the through-forestation of the budget, whatever that may be. In any case, you have ended your speech and asked us not to continue to be insecure here. I think the uncertainty is yours. State Secretary Lopatka meant that free for everyone no longer goes. – I would really like to know what “free for everyone” in the area of family policy really means. Can you rule out that the Free Kindergarten will be abolished after we hear this in Carinthia after we hear it in the Styria after we hear that free for everyone no longer goes? Can you rule out the fact that the federal grant, i.e. the funds that have already taken place in the last two years only at the pace of the snails, will ensure that there are a few more places in childcare – yes or no? Can you give us an answer? [[Abg. Steibl: In the Styria it wanted the red ones!]] You can rule out the 13th. Family aid will be abolished – yes or no? If you had given an answer, perhaps you could have excluded the insecurity of many families with children. The situation is like this right now: School closure, re-entry of children, horticultural places for autumn are being sought. And everywhere you can already see the signs of the biggest savings package that will come to us in autumn. At once there is no longer the gym, at once the school class that should have been there is put together, and there are only two classes instead of three. [[Abg. Steibl: Because fewer children are!]] All of a sudden, one or two caregivers are less able to afford it. All of this is now uncertain to families every day and not to the fact that the opposition here in Parliament is asking a few questions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the university we know: You want to introduce tuition fees. How's school money? Do you want to introduce school money again? Give an answer to all of this – perhaps even today! What about the grant as regards the important promotion of language? Everyone's talking about integration. In any case, it is only this minimal amount of money that the federal government will have to pay € 5 million to the countries in order to promote language promotion in the kindergarten. Will there continue to be this money – yes or no? These are all very relevant questions. However, what still provoked me was the colleague's statement from the ÖVP, which meant: We've never gone as well as now! – Yes, I can say that about me, perhaps I can say that about you! [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: That's true, too, Mrs. Glavischnig! That's the reality!]] But who do you mean “we ”? – Austria as a whole, okay! Then let's talk a little bit about the distribution! There is a part in Austria that is getting better and better. However, this is a very, very small group that is gaining more and more wealth, more and more income on one side of society. What you are completely hiding – and this is bitter in this debate – is that in the area of families and children, the figures on the risk of poverty and the people who have to live in acute poverty have increased dramatically. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti:... Poverty! That's why everyone wants to go to Austria because it's so good!]] [[Abg. Hornek:... don't pay taxes at all!]] Much more children than last year live acutely in poverty. That is, they go hungry into the kindergarten, get their first meal there, don't have a heated second room in winter, where they may sleep in peace. Children's poverty, which you claim you want to abolish, has become stronger in Austria. That means also for these budgetary negotiations: If you really take family policy seriously, then take this problem seriously. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: That's not true!]] – You’re welcome to speak and don’t have to shout out. The words “all of us ” simply do not agree. Some are better, some have more wealth, more wealth, but a lot of people are going worse at the moment, and they will get worse when social reduction becomes visible in autumn. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where does that end now? The Minister of Finance will come and explain to us what is taboo. I call something that must be absolutely taboo from a green point of view: the whole area of education, from kindergarten to schools to universities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the most important foundation for our children. This must be taboo with the savings package of the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7411	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7432	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The speakers in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have mainly taken stock of the past ten years. Of these ten years, at least five years of age were very good in family policy, namely from 2000 to 2006, because the course was set correctly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The title of this current hour is also called “perspectives for the future”. I would like to deal with the future and say that this title is actually a provocation according to what we have heard now. What the red and black government has offered in recent months in terms of budgeting is really a witness to poverty. They tell us where much to save – at least € 235 million in the family ministry – and they place it with large-scale ads that every unborn child has so much debt, but they don't tell us what action this should take. Therefore, this praise of transfer payments is a very fragile one. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, tell us what transfer payments you want to limit! It's the 13th. Family aid? Will there be social assistance for families? Or is it the free kindergarten that is saved? I also think it is worrying that, when you think about the future, you are not prepared to set the lines for important investments, education and health in the sense of gender equality and to put in place the reforms that ultimately have a lasting impact on the family. Ladies and gentlemen, families are resources and must not be victims – victims of an irresponsible and incapable policy as it is present. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We at the BZÖ will continue to work with all the strength in the future to ensure that families continue to benefit from a policy that is based on the realities of life. We will make our contribution to this. In the end, the fact is, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The families have no lobby in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: Go!]] We once had a generation ministry, now we have at best a state secretariat at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The fact is that family policy is very one-dimensional. They see family policy and the families as a purely economic factor, it is about the mothers returning to full employment as quickly as possible. The best example of this is the following: If experts propose to remove the long-term variant and invest more money in kindergartens and pedigrees with regard to child benefit, this will not be contradicted by the government. The fact is, however, that freedom of decision is very limited. In the end, the unfavorable limit on child care, which should finally be abolished, tells the parents how long and how often they can work and work. It just doesn't fit in. In the end, it is also limited to equal work and family work. The fact is that the discharge of the families is largely about transfers. That is what I am right about, Mrs Steibl, who said that we are in the forefront of this, but with a far too small part of the tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, €19 billion, families pay tax contributions, and they get only €6 billion back from FLAF. The FLAF, so to speak, the flagship of family policy, which will have nearly €1 billion in deficit this year, is slow on the Kentern. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ? – You’re waiting for better times instead of having creative ideas about how to clean up this family burden compensation fund in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this regard, we have made a very good proposal from the BZÖ, which you could take up: Banks making use of a restructuring package of the State and the taxpayer are expected to provide a certain percentage as a generation levy to FLAF. This would be a return of money to those taxpayers and families who need it in particular. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the tax system must be more family-friendly, because ultimately it is the families of the middle class who maintain the entire social system. You pay the most and get back at least relatively. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To conclude: Family has a future, family is not a run-out model when the conditions are right and, above all, if we have a climate that is not only family-friendly, but that is also really family-friendly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7493	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7514	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Haubner, that sounds very nice from your mouth that families should not be saved. But can I remind you of where you saved when you were still sitting for the Freedom Party in the government? [[Abg. Scheibner: This is your trauma!]] There was one of the first measures you have taken together with the ÖVP that you abolished the then kindergarten billions. I remember this very carefully. All the measures we are taking today – the start-up financing together with the federal states – are very important, among other things, because we have enormous need of repetition from these years in which you, Mrs Haubner, have been a member of the Freedom Party in the government. Don't forget that if you're talking about not being saved with the families! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: You fought the child money like that!]] Family policy is therefore particularly important because it is about life opportunities, about the chances of life of children – our children! – and young people in this country we want to improve – from kindergarten to school to universities, through an education system that is really one that offers opportunities for young people. It is particularly important that we start with the little ones who support the little ones, start early on promoting the skills of the little ones, reducing deficits. If we help the little one, we can save them a lot later. It is also particularly important for the integration of children who need to learn German, for example, to have kindergartens. That is why it was important for us in the government negotiations to implement the free kindergarten year for the five-year-olds. This is a first, very important step in the right direction. This is a first step, and many courageous steps must be taken. It is therefore so important and exemplary that the mayor of Vienna has taken very large and courageous steps in recent years to improve the chances of life for children and young people. This is indeed an example. In the next seven years, ladies and gentlemen, the offer of all day schools is simply and simply doubled in Vienna. This is an important step in training young people in our federal capital. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: In Vienna the childcare places are most expensive!]] What has been particularly important in recent years has been the decision of the mayor of Vienna to make the kindergarten in Vienna contribution-free, not only the last year as a preparation for the school – which is available throughout the country – but also for the little ones. For all children up to six years old, the Kindergarten is free of contributions in Vienna, all day long and with the best offer in places we have to offer in Austria. [[Abg. Petzner: Which federal country did it first have?]] Although the best offer exists in Vienna, further expansion is being financed. In the years 2009 to 2011 6 500 additional places will be created in Vienna. This year alone, 13 million € will be invested in the extension of childcare places in Vienna to create new places for the little ones in Vienna. This is an important relief for young families in Vienna, especially in difficult economic times. You, Mrs. State Secretary Marek, are the Secretary of State for the Family, but you are also a top candidate in Vienna! For us, it is more than incomprehensible that you say that you would abolish the contribution-free kindergarten in Vienna. [[State Secretary Marek: That's not true!]] You do not need to be surprised, Mrs State Secretary, if young families will not vote in Vienna. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] We must do the opposite, namely take money into our hands in the right place and, as the mayor of Vienna says, Vienna, Austria must “invest” from the crisis. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] In the next few years, we will also have to take over additional money, extend federal funding, increase the funding of the start-up and help the federal states to expand the range of childcare facilities in order to pick up the need for recovery that we have from the blue-black period and to expand the offer further.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7634	Mrs Hellererer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7656	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mrs Glavischnig said: Free is no longer possible, parents are not insured! Mrs Kuntzl has just said: In Vienna the kindergarten is free, a great success! – What does it really look like in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen? Young mothers are desperately looking for a kindergarten for their young children when the childcare allowance expires when the karenz period is over. At the birth of the child, parents in Vienna see that they get a place in an urban kindergarten. There is a fixed place for five-year-olds, and for those children who are not so old, it is more a privilege to have a kindergarten in Vienna, but not a matter of course with Weitem. This situation has been on the rise since the last autumn. Since the kindergarten was made contribution-free, it is much more difficult to get a kindergarten in Vienna. One would also assume that if there was a free offer, structures would have to be created before, instead of investing in kindergarten expansion. In Vienna there are too few educators and educators, there are too few rooms available, and the kindergartens that are needed are not available at Weitem. – That’s how it actually looks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What you've announced here, it's heading for election advertising. But you also have to see the facts and present them objectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, it is in some federal states. In fact, kindergarten care is based on country competence. There are present-day countries that have invested excellently in childcare in recent years. In particular, I am thinking of Lower Austria, where kindergartens are provided in sufficient quantity and high quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also confirmed by the Federal Institute for Family Research. In Lower Austria, the kindergarten groups with an average of 18 children are the smallest in all of Austria. And because it is a matter of bringing the federal states to a table, the Secretary of State has also done so in relation to childcare facilities and the forced offer. There is a new extension of the Article-15a agreements. There is a new way to ensure that the young parents who need a job can also get it and trust that child care can also be offered to the children. For this, money is taken into hand by the federal side. The Federal Secretary of State has provided 20 million € annually for the period from 2008 to 2010 as start-up funding. 5 million of them are reserved for language promotion. The Länder must, of course, co-finance REN. Some countries are still sparse and have not yet settled with the federal government. That's exactly what it's all about: getting these federal states into the boat. This also applies to the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act. The Secretary of State has presented a very good draft for a new Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act. Unfortunately, the resistance of the countries still fails. Youth welfare is also 100% in country competence. There is also an appeal to the countries: Come back to the round table and support this measure by the Secretary of State! In autumn there will be the free kindergarten for the five-year-olds mandatory. This is a new and good educational offer in the kindergarten area. There, too, an amount of €70 million is provided by the federal government annually to support and finance child care in the federal states. The care rate can also be seen in Austria. Even if we have not yet achieved the Barcelona target, we are on a good path. A total of €369.2 million will be made available at Federal Funding from 2008 to 2013. Today it has already been said that the kindergarten billion has been abolished. It was rather a start-up funding, which was re-turned. Today, the Federal Government is once again investing intensively in childcare facilities in the federal states. The Secretary of State says again and again and stresses that we are talking to families that families must be able to rely on family benefits, especially when they are caring for children, and that, of course, the necessary and sufficient budget resources are also made available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7744	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7765	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would particularly like to welcome our Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth from this point of view – wherever he is. I find it significant that at a current hour on the topic “Families-friendly Austria: The balance sheet and prospects for the future are not even present. But in election times – that is clear – you have something else to do, and you have to present the Secretary of State. But you, too, Mrs State Secretary, have left us with a lot of answers on this issue today. I am concerned about the fact that there is an action paper from the social partners, according to which savings in family support are to be made in excess of €440 million. That's where I see a very big load wave coming on us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not quite two years ago in this house was the 13. Family aid decided shortly before the last National Council elections. And then it was advertised: Austria has long been committed to creating a family- and child-friendly environment, to financially support families, and therefore, in September, the family aid is intended to provide targeted support for the additional expenditure incurred. You'll be paid out sometime. ==References== Family aid has actually been introduced, after all, only with the National Council elections on 28 November. ==References====External links== My colleague Anneliese Kitzmüller has already mentioned it: Mrs State Secretary, you The 13th of the 13th century, as well as in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) – think openly about it. To remove family aid. But not just that. At the time, Austria has provided €15 billion for the rescue of Austrian banks. We were also quite quick to grab the Greeks with the incredible sum of €2.3 billion under the arms. But there, at the 13th. Family aid, which brings a real great relief to families at the very beginning of school, that is, to deliberately damage families and to purchase that they have to make financial cancellations. But our families in Austria deserve support. That is why we have also launched a petition from the FPÖ: Under www.stop-social reduction.at we ask all Austrians to sign here and show the government: [[the speaker places a sign with this inscription on the speaker's desk]] We want the 13th. Family aid is maintained! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you that in family policy we have to reorient ourselves in general. Mrs Hellerer, I am quite right to say that there is still very great scope for child care. No one argues that, especially in some countries, the development of childcare facilities has not yet been fully implemented in the rural regions. It cannot be said, however, that with the current Article 15a agreement, state and federal policy play out as a guardian of the parents, but the Black Peter gives the communities the chance, namely the cost of extending the care. We have already pointed out several times that this mandatory half-day kindergarten year for five years will also bring a considerable strain to the municipalities. Especially in difficult times when communities are burdened with more and more expenditure in the social field and the revenue is breaking away, it is almost unaccountable to impose additional, new burdens on municipalities. There are now weaker years of birth, and yet the communities are required to expand the care places now without need testing and without transitional periods – I am talking about Tyrol. I think that is very worrying. Not to be forgotten is also the following: that this mandatory half-day free kindergarten can no longer be sold as a family-political achievement, because in recent times it has been called only more than educational hope-holders in integration policy. If you really want to save, I'll give you a good tip: Save You are paying the family allowance for children who do not live in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One final sentence: I believe that family policy and women's policy in Austria continue to go beyond reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7860	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7881	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear listeners! “Families-friendly Austria” – I was surprised that the ÖVP has made this issue on the topic of the current hour, because the government parties usually do if they have something to celebrate. In the area of family policy, the ÖVP certainly has nothing to celebrate! - Yes, I know! [[Abg. Grill: You know that!]] Although the ÖVP is happy to represent itself as the family party: We all know that you have clearly demonstrated the ÖVP – and this has been clearly demonstrated by speakers of the ÖVP – only certain families think if you are talking about family-friendly politics in Austria. You mean the well, the better-earning families, you mean the domestic families – but you don't mean the single-parents, even if Colleague Steibl claims this, you don't mean the patchwork families, and you don't mean the families who have traveled here from other countries, or families in which not everything happens according to the classic ÖVP image, but where equal-sex partners, lesbians, gays live together with children. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Yes, say it once,...!]] These families are not covered by your policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Exciting, yes, almost amusing – if it is not so serious – is also to see how SPÖ and ÖVP make mutual preferences, which in the field of childcare in the respective federal states, which are dominated by these parties, has gone wrong or not well. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Nothing goes wrong with an ÖVP government! Some things are going wrong in Vienna!]] The fact is: Yes, in Austria a lot is spent on families. The fact is, however, that most of these budget items are in transfers, i.e. in cash benefits that are directly linked to the families. And the fact is that we need a high level of infrastructure follow-up, says in the creation of childcare places. Here you can claim what you want: We have an obvious problem in the field of childcare. Austria has committed itself to the Barcelona target. Austria has committed itself to accommodate 33 percent of the three-year-olds and 90 percent of the three- to five-year-olds in childcare places in 2010. But reality looks different: For the three-year-olds, Austria achieved 15.8 percent, not even half of what it committed to, and for the three to five-year-olds 88.5%, so not the 90 percent to which it has committed. And then a State Secretary says in several interviews and public statements, but also in parliamentary questions: Not everything is good, but I do not see it as my duty to continue to invest here in the development of childcare facilities. – And that in an Austria that has committed itself to meeting the 33 percent quota and has not even managed to keep 50 percent of that low quota! It is not about children being “parked” in kindergartens, but about the fact that kindergartens are the first educational institution, that is the question of the compatibility of family and profession, which you repeatedly promote here in many speeches, but where the actions do not follow, and that is what it is all about – that has already been said by colleague Glavischnig – about poverty reduction. We know that only those families where both parents can pursue employment – and they can only do so once if there is a corresponding care facility for their children – really have the chance not to fall into the poverty trap. We know that families, where only one parent goes to work, have an increased risk of poverty. However, it is not only the families whose children should go to these childcare facilities, but also the families of those who work in these childcare facilities. We are mainly dealing with women who work under impossible conditions, too low wages – partly to wages under the guarantee of existence – affected by health problems due to the workload of burn-out. These persons, too, have families, and they also have a right to policy to create framework conditions in these institutions that deserve this name. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of the day, however, let me say once again my definition of ‘family kindness’: Family kindness means not only making politics for those families that are meant by the ÖVP, but family kindness means thinking of all families in Austria, and that also concerns those families who do not have an Austrian passport. Your family policy, your family kindness ends with those families who do not have a passport, but who have been living here for ten years, are integrated and are quite understood by their fellow human beings as a family.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7970	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7991	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “Families-friendly Austria”, what does that mean? Is there on the one hand official Austria and on the other hand the families, above the state, below the families, since the payer, there the recipient? Should the Austrian families now say thank you for being so kind to them? – I tell you, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: We have to thank the families today, because it is the families that give Austria a perspective for the future! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Unfortunately, what is missing in our official Austria, praised by the government as family-friendly, is the awareness that families are service providers. Instead, they are often treated as bitters. According to expert calculations, 80 percent of the companies in Austria are family owned. 70 percent of employees work in these enterprises. If we are talking here in the House today about the need to take stock, then we are listening to the balance of these families that keep the Austrian economy running. The fact that these families – unlike others – know how to draw up a balance sheet is unlikely to want to be disputed here. Let us look at the balance sheet of the Austrian families and what remains of the family-friendly Austria! According to a current survey, two thirds of the parents in Austria feel that their achievements are not properly recognized, neither materially nor humanly. For each individual person, his family is a value that one cannot describe with numbers and should not describe with numbers. Perhaps this is precisely the reason why the families in Austria unfortunately have to pay for it. And now that the families are to be saved, I believe that it is purely economic to represent, because without the unpaid family work done by women, our society would be pulled away from the ground, ladies and gentlemen, under the feet. Unfortunately, this family work is not only unpaid, but also unthankful. This can be seen from the fact that the savings fund should now be used for those who work for our society free of charge. In my view, there is more to be done in order to ensure further uncertainty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is enough what the Austrian families have been meant to date: On the one hand, there are the 13. Family aid, the next day it will be abolished. Today there is a free kindergarten, for tomorrow it is no longer secured. I ask you: How are families still to plan and manage reasonably in such a policy? This will prevent the families from going on, and they cannot rely on it either. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it goes even further: The government will not finish with the budget. What's going to be done? – It will be moved. Show me a family in Austria, which can handle their budget money in this way! In Styria, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, your group has laid down the work anyway, is instead concerned with internal problems and is on a self-convention trip with the head of state Voves. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It may then happen that by the way, €1.5 million from the Article-15a agreement provided by the Federal Government for the extension of childcare places will not be collected – not collected! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Perhaps you will tell your colleagues in Styria that this money for childcare will also be collected, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And if we're already there, you'll tell the truth too! Tell the families the truth! Tell me where you want to save some €400 million by 2014, where families will be taken away. Tell the truth! They refuse responsibility, and you refuse to show honesty. That's exactly what's going to fall on your head, ladies and gentlemen, because the Styrian families are the first to go on 26th. September will take stock of your government policy – and this balance sheet will not be positive, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The BZÖ will continue to be on the side of the families in economically difficult times. It will support and accompany the families, and we keep our promises and our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8092	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8113	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to take up the picture of the family that Mrs Musiol has provided here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Thank you! Thank you!]] This does not belong to Parliament, to the National Council of the Republic. I think family should stay family: Family should include father, mother and children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] We liberals, especially me, are not available for lesbians and gays to raise the retort children of our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who are the “we free ”?]] That's why we're a liberal to today's... [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Who are the “we free ”?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] For today's debate, I would like to say that it is doubtful to look at the discussion between the government parties, between red and black. Are you still a sense of your government work, today, on the eve of a constitutional breach?- Oh, my God! – This is unique in the Republic: The budget is not presented in October, but only in December. They lie to the people! They don't tell them before the country election in Vienna, before the country election in Styria, that the 13. Family aid in 2011 is deleted without notice. This is your lie, which you will have to answer. And, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian voters will testify to it in the election session that With your policy of untruth you are not going to... – I am glad, Mr Petzner, that you are my opinion! [[Abg. Petzner: What is the FPK doing in Carinthia? Day kindergarten abolished, family allowance shortened,...?- Oh, my God!]] I'm glad you're my opinion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are not available for a non-family-friendly policy. We in Carinthia have introduced standards that other federal states can only dream of. [[Abg. Petzner: You cut everything together!]] For example, we have child care places that are cheap, 147 € for a kindergarten in Carinthia, for a full day care place. In Vienna, this Kindergartenplatz costs 259 €, almost 100 percent more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is freedom of movement, as it will also take place in the Republic of Austria more and more in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8256	Mr Jury, for the double accusation of lies, I give you a call for order. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. [[10:24:50]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8288	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8497	The debate on points 2 to 7, 8 and 9, 12 to 15, 16 and 17, 18 and 19 and 20 to 27 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8521	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached between the members of the presidential conference. A 10 ‘Vienna Hours’ day block time has been proposed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 140 minutes, FPÖ 125 minutes, Green 110 minutes and BZÖ 105 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were agreed on for the statements by Federal Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors on the budget consultations for 2011 and the subsequent joint debate: The two explanations are 12 minutes each, one speaker or speaker round with 10 minutes each, another with 7 minutes and another speaker or speaker round with 7 minutes, so that a total of 144 minutes are generated. Actual corrections are called during the interruption of television time. The President-in-Office, after consulting the club presidents, shall, at the latest before the beginning of the final round, distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television period. The meeting was suspended from 1 p.m. or after calling for actual corrections until 1/15 p.m. The meeting was resumed at 1.15 p.m. with the Social and Financial Block, which included Agenda items 2 to 7, with the following Rules of Procedure: A round of speakers with 8 minutes each, then a member of government SPÖ 9 minutes, another round of speakers with 5 minutes, a member of government ÖVP with 6 minutes and a further round of speakers with 4 minutes each, so that a total of 100 minutes. Actual adjustments are called after the television time. The President-in-Office, after consulting the club presidents, shall, at the latest before the beginning of the final round, distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television period. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:27:50]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the Budgetary Consultations for the year 2011
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8594	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a joint debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8622	Mr President! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! Honourable Members! High house! Austria is the top priority in Europe with regard to the lowest level of unemployment. This alone proves that we are among the best-equipped and best-prepared countries in Europe from the economic power and performance of the workers and the entrepreneurs of this country. We have also proved in difficult times, with the framework conditions of the economic packages, for example, with the innovativeness of the country, with investment, with support and with the help of the framework conditions of politics, but – and this is always particularly important – with the strength of our companies and employees, that we are among the best in Europe in the difficult times. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] With regard to the relatively low youth unemployment – with every unemployed person, especially every youth unemployed person, too much – we are among the best with 9.5% compared to the European average of 20.5%, because we have the lowest unemployment rates among young people. [[Abg. Bucher: They you created, the work, not the economy!]] Even if we take the 16 850 persons concerned to which unemployment has fallen compared to the previous year, this is a success for these people. In addition to preventing human suffering, however, it is also a financial relief, because every unemployed person alone costs €26 000, and, of course, all that is missing from revenue, all that is missing from taxes – in addition to all the inconceivable human suffering that lies behind unemployment. I do not want to imagine what this would be like if we were among the final lights in unemployment, because I am proud to bear responsibility in a country where it is not because we are among the best. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Only at the budget...!]] We can also highlight this with a few other data, such as short work, which has fallen from 57 000 in April 2009 to only 8 300 people today. This proves that the economy is regaining strength and that it was solid in a time with many workers, when others simply put on the runaway. This has been achieved in close agreement with our actions and with the right attitude of many businesses in our country not to rely on rapid reduction of employees, but on short-term bridging, as has been said, for example, by short-term work. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weinzinger and Mr Grosz.]] In short-time work, as with the training guarantee and many other measures, we have also created something that has and is of great importance not instead of economic performance but as a framework condition for economic performance in our country. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] The European Commission's spring forecast for 2010 was 1.3 percent growth. We all know that measures such as safeguarding our social system, improving our health system, strengthening the middle class of our country, including showing that we are a country that is not interested in the fact that there are only very rich and whole poor, but that we are fighting poverty and supporting middle classes, and that growth is also necessary, because without economic growth, there is no employment, without employment and without economic growth, there is no sufficient revenue. – There is no such savings rate and there is no such tax rate that could replace an active and right growth policy! Growth is therefore one of those sizes when we prepare our budget for the next years, when we have prepared the guidelines, principles, figures, measures to be taken here. In the framework law, we have already defined our path, which aims to ensure that growth is one of the decisive factors. It is also gratifying that we are above the forecasts of the euro area. On the other hand, it is not gratifying that Europe as a whole is worse than others in an international comparison. It is therefore important to pay particular attention to the question of education, research, green technologies, even in the totally merciless criticism of why Europe is worse placed in this competition than others. The forecasts for 2011 of the IHS and the Wifo have been increased to 1.6 and 1.9 percent respectively. I'm not going to say at the hour. We are going through the crisis and now it's only going up! because I know that many factors are not foreseeable at the time and everyone is a charlatan who already believes that the crisis is over, because no one can know it: because the financial markets – which has also made it clear to us in recent days – have made this clear to many international economic researchers – have not yet taken so much steps because speculation has not yet been banished, fought and regulated, because even the banking sector has not yet overcome its weaknesses on its own initiative so much that we can give green light to a recovery. But it is a forecast that goes up from 1.6 to 1.9 percent for 2011 – something that can also make us proud of the achievements in our country. On the other hand, as the last figures show, there are more than 240 000 people in the working age who are in employment, so work, but cannot live by work. There are over 200,000 people who do not receive the sentence “work. ” – Achievement should pay off, but work must also pay off. So there is also an increase in precarious working conditions and no decrease in these difficult times. [[Abg. Weinzinger: These are the small traders and the...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The average pension level in Austria is 1 100 €, and if many call for it, there is a lot to do, then you have to remember again and again that there are many who have to come out with less than 1 000 € and therefore, from my point of view, cannot be the goal of those who say they would have caused the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are only two groups of people whom I have referred to as alternates for many others, who insist that our budget will show a fair and just handwriting that the measures we are discussing here in the House must be debated and decided to take measures that justify the expression of just budget. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the budget? Where's the budget, Mr. Federal Chancellor?]] These are measures to show that those who have more do more and those who have less also contribute less. These are the ones that depend on us to keep our word to present a fair budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to property taxes, Austria is the final indicator of 0.5 percent of GDP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] In comparison, they account for 3.4 percent in France, 2.4 percent of GDP in Switzerland. Now you can have an intensive discussion about statistics and figures and whether everything is so comparable – and this is exactly the case! It is a question of whether we in our country are able to demand a greater contribution from those who have more, with a bank levy at European level or, in some way, with the implementation of a financial transaction tax in Austria. – After all, it was again proud that the number of millionaires in Austria increased by 10 percent from 2008 to 2009. This is all very nice, but that means they have to make their contribution, because those who have more have to make a greater contribution than those who have less. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So there's a two-way discussion ahead of us: We are faced with a debate on how 40 percent who are to be raised on the revenue side can be fairly distributed, so that not those who bear no debt to the crisis, but who are, on the contrary, particularly affected. Secondly, How can we eliminate double-tracking without reducing benefits in terms of content, especially where the benefits of the health system, the social system are particularly important, so that we are nevertheless able to eliminate double-tracking – for example, in hard discussions with the countries – in general in our country? – You all know these Court of Auditors reports, which are the basis for them, and you know that our ministries and those responsible in the ministries are not on vacation for eight weeks in the summer, but are working hard to propose these savings measures as fair as possible and in the context of the decided path in autumn. This seems to me to be a particularly important task, because saving is nothing to be done with, but saving is something that is necessary in order to be able to finance other achievements that are urgently needed. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Saving is therefore not a self-interest, but a purpose to increase efficiency in a country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Why are...?]] But now we are better than many others because of the deficit with a minus of 4.7 percent in 2010. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Declaration on the postponement of the budget!]] [[Abg. Bucher: You're running away from it!]] Mr Westenthaler, I am telling you why we have more time than others. The question is often discussed publicly: What about France, what about other countries, with Greece, with Spain? They are already talking about their actions, where are your measures? – I can only say: I am glad that we are not in the situation of these countries, because they are with a forecast deficit in 2010 – for example, France in the amount of minus 8 percent, UK minus 12 percent, Greece minus 9.3 percent – not even in our situation! That is why I do not understand the attitude that some would like us to have to discuss measures such as those that are in a very different situation than we do. [[Abg. Kickl: What do we need a budget for?]] We have to decide on tough measures, but we do not need measures that we do not need to wish for – and not from the opposition – because we do not have a deficit of more than 10 percent, but rather a responsible budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Then put the measures on the table, then we don't need to discuss!]] The Wifo will have the new forecast by the end of September. Professor Aeginger has made it clear: significant risks from the financial system, no self-sustaining upsurge – that is, certain factors that cannot be calculated at the time. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! Shift...!]] Other economic researchers have also made it clear that at a time, about the end of October, when we have to go into the review with the budget accompanying laws – and in the budget accompanying laws, the decisive measures you are constantly asking for – in our timetable, which is – admittedly – a timetable with which we have not made it easy for us to propose these, are already put on the table at the end of October all the essential measures, so that they can then also be discussed in the review. So far, we have acted responsibly in this crisis, and we will also be measured by this debate in the House, whether, with the measures that are necessary – not those that are spoken of by some – we will ensure the same stability on the part of revenue and expenditure on the part of our countries, as we have done so far, and we can be proud to be Austrians, with political conditions that are fair and fair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8887	I now grant Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Cheers the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8908	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to follow up on what Mr Bundeskanzler has done, namely to briefly highlight the situation and then look at how we presented the budget timetable for the next few weeks and months, and outline what the starting position is. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, no one should have gone away: On the one hand, the balance sheet that Austria can draw in crisis management is one in the European context that we can be proud of together. . I say this consciously here in the House, because in 2008/2009 we made decisive choices and decisions here in the House, which first stabilised the financial system of Austria and also the European Union, and which in a second wave contributed to supporting these decisions here, which support the economy, SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises – and we should also be proud to support them with economic packages, with a tax reform and return money to people. Today, we can take stock of both effects that result. [[Abg. Bookbooker: 13 billion € deficit! Debtenberg!]] First of all: The banks are again able to finance the economy, the medium-sized, all those who work hard daily, get up, earn and finance something. Secondly, we have managed that the entrepreneurs of Austria – this is also a message – which we should thank today, have gone through the crisis with their economic strength, also with the support of the state and the federal states. Today, we have a labour market situation that has led us to the top of Europe with just under 5 percent. These are investments that do not come from anywhere, which are based on Parliament's decisions, the government's proposals, embedded in a common European procedure. We should not put this under the carpet, but we now have the task of considering the future, as we have come out of the crisis with this Austrian advantage, which we have had and which we have led through the crisis, offensively into the future. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Without budget?- Oh, my God!]] The question will of course be at the heart of this question: What does the 2011 budget look like? On the one hand, there are the budget-accompanied laws. We must negotiate three pillars in the coming weeks and months budget 2011 plus budget accompanying laws. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Now we come to the point!]] - For the first time. Secondly, As far as the size is concerned, we must present the largest expenditure and revenue-oriented package of the Second Republic, 60: 40, for several years in autumn, up to four years in perspective. Never before has a government carried out such a task, even in a situation of crisis which is very fragile, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true! The climber has...! You think we're stupid!]] [[Abg. Booker: This is a nonsense!]] Third – the third pillar –: We must conclude negotiations with the federal states on the administrative reform and the contributions of the federal states. In this triangle, in this tripartite context – budget 2011, savings and revenue-side rehabilitation package for Austria, in order to be reinvested in the future, necessary new and self-sustained growth, on the third side the negotiations with the federal states – negotiations are taking place in these days, in these weeks and in the coming months. This is the starting point for the discussion we have before us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am on the budget timetable. What I promise here and what we've done together in the Federal Government is that on 1 January, we'll be able to do. The budget will enter into force on January 2011. You all know very well, no matter when we take the budget decisions, the budget, even if it is presented earlier, comes with 1. ==References== This promise says that we keep this promise, also with the new proposed budget roadmap. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What is this promise?]] It does not change for the people of Austria, nothing for the perspective of the economy and nothing for the clarity when the measures find their implementation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a second point which the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned as a previous speaker, which is important to me, because there is quite a headache about the debate in Austria among the financial ministers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are constitutional breakers!]] Why? – It is often referred to as the German example, the French example, the example UK. In addition to political goals that have been put into space there, for example, in Germany, there is no decision on the restoration of the country at this time – and will not exist before autumn. There it is strongly discussed about the political objectives and the sum of €80 billion. We should also be proud – and you always forget that in an admittedly legitimate debate, no question at all when it comes to a new budget roadmap on the part of the opposition – that a federal government has never before presented to this House a budget tangent with the federal financial framework that you have decided here in the spring. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Thank you! Constitutional breakers!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] We have never set up such a framework before. Internationally and Europeanly, it is looked at whether this federal financial framework is also made a legal link to the benchmark for national implementation. Many of those in the political debate today would be happy if they had already established such a law at this time. That is the second part of the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Allow me to say, of course, that, from my point of view, budgetary reorganisation must be negotiated in this three-column budget from important points of view: Rehabilitation package for Austria to enable offensive measures and growth – also with the countries. This must be done socially sound and economically reasonable. We're in a bad situation. You will also see this in different countries in the south of Europe. We're still in a lavish situation. Socially acceptable and economically sound, socially just and just for performance! We also need to look at those who use their tax money to fill the pot every day so that we can even talk about the potential of distribution. On the contrary, we must not forget this powerful middle class: He will be at the heart of the discussions and negotiations over the next few weeks and months. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must do all we can to ensure that these three pillars do all we can to ensure that future self-sustained new growth with new innovations also in the field of education, research and development, for which we must also provide for offensive measures. I think this agreement in the Federal Government is important that we focus on saving. The IMF was here, has taken a very positive assessment for Austria and has given a view, which means: In the future, those economies, those countries in the international context, will be particularly successful, breaking the expenditure dynamics created by saving space for future investment. That is why I am 100 percent on this compromise, 60 percent on the savings side and 40 percent on the revenue side. On the budget timetable, ladies and gentlemen: We want the 1st. January 2011 to ensure the effectiveness of all three major areas to be discussed. We will now – and we will do so over the summer – the negotiations, the talks in the Federal Government. Of course, we have been doing this technically with the federal states in clarifying budget data and many other issues for weeks since the Federal Financial Framework was clear. We need two elements to do this. First, the “Quality Before Time” principle. It is true that this largest rehabilitation package needs time for the future and for an offensive Austria. I do not want to have, we do not want to have that at a very heated time, at a time when economic forecasts also change weekly, where there are different assessments in which discussion has also begun in Europe, I very much appreciate [[Abg. Bucher: Before the country elections in Styria!]] Ladies and gentlemen, which countries should go into the renovation first and which will go a little later, time before quality. If one sees that France has 8 percent deficit, Great Britain 13 percent, Greece 12 to 13 percent, Germany has more deficit than we, Spain has a significantly higher unemployment, then these countries must move forward. But we also need to consider this, i.e., sharpen economic forecasts, have a better situation in the autumn as regards forecasts, and in time with 1. January 2011 – this is also the message for the people in this country – put into effect the budget, the restructuring package and the administrative reform with the countries. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Please go!]] That's what everyone's gonna ask us to do. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to hold this discussion together in a very special year, regardless of elections, of other situations. And you all know this: In an extremely difficult, one of the most difficult times for Austria and for Europe as far as economic development is concerned, we must be careful that, while we are having a strong discussion and that all the debates that are there and I understand, we are also in line here in this House, but we are putting quality ahead of pace, that we are together trying to bring Austria out of the gap. This is a mammoth task for the government and for the High House in budget creation, something there has not been since 1945 from the requirement. I can conclude with Josef Bucher – it will surprise you now – who said in my budget speech last April: Mr. Minister, you are now presenting a budget. This is irresponsible in the crisis, much too early. We have to wait, you don't know the data. [[Abg. Bucher:... two years!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't stop – continue reading!]] [[Abg. Petzner: What did you do?]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the time I made the bow: Yes, we have a particularly difficult situation. We have all the time to prepare ourselves properly and to resolve what you have called for, with the economic forecasts in September, to develop a proper future budget, a proper renovation of Austria and a good administrative reform, socially sound and economically balanced, for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9166	We are going into the debate. I call Mr Klubobmann. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9191	Dear Mr Faymann. [[Hello! Call at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Order call!]] Dear Mr. Constitutional Breaker Pröll! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ and the ÖVP have broken their constitutions, because otherwise you cannot be referred to! [[Abg. Amon: Madam President,...!]] They're breaking the Constitution today. They are breaking the Austrian Constitution today and are planning not to comply with the prescribed constitutional deadlines. This is political reality. And you can only be surprised that today the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have turned out to be here and have basically made a smooth issue mistake. I mean, that was just steaming. This was an increase in the Austrian population, which you have given here today in your two declarations and for the best. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That was no explanation!]] You would have every reason to generate your way of doing this, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, because what is happening today is a smooth breach of the constitution! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is a step against our Austrian constitution, a blow to the face of parliamentarianism and democracy. [[Abg. Raedler: Weak speech!]] Former National Council President Khol – and not just him – would say that you have put yourself outside the Constitutional Arch with this behavior. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the political reality that we have to evaluate and discuss here today. We, the opposition, and in that case the whole opposition, are the guardians of the Constitution and remind you that you also comply with these constitutional requirements. But why aren't you ready for that? This must be shown to the Austrian people why you are trying to abuse Parliament as a voting machine depending on the desire and mood, and are even willing to break the Constitution because your plan and your procedure are revealing enough. You have just made the plan not to talk and discuss in the Council of Ministers in September, just as it would have been necessary for the Council of Ministers, in the committees due to the necessary preparations, about your planned tax increases and waves of burden – just so that they could not see the light of the public at the end of September, because there is a Styrian country election and a Vienna country election as a result. And here it is particularly unpleasant for you to know in good time also the Styrian and the Wiener population, what you plan to do, what kind of stress you plan, what dramatic tax increases you are planning up to the end of the 13th century. Family aid, where you will consciously again be burdening the weakest and weakest of society. After all, you want to compensate for what you did a few weeks ago – probably overnight – when you had no problem at all in a night and fog action by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, for an EU bank rescue package, with almost €21.3 billion in Austrian taxpayers from the Austrian budget pot. You didn't have a problem at all, so you handled it lightly. I'll tell you: Whoever breaks the Constitution, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you do not believe any further promise you made for the more time today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At that time, in a night and fog action, you generously made available € 21.3 billion in Austrian taxpayers for an EU bank recovery package, where you said it was alternativesless. – So if someone is already standing up and saying that there are no alternatives and no other options, then he leads himself ad absurdum. There are always alternatives, there are always other possibilities and there should not have been any Austrian tax center here in this bank rescue package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] This money should have been used here for Austria, for the Austrian population. And now you come here and want to hide what you are planning, namely these 21.3 billions that you have already taken from the Austrian population and taxpayers, to take them out again by tax increases, because you have to secure the money somewhere. That's your concept! That's what I'm Your concept, and that's what you want to cover up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's really generous if you're living a smooth break in the constitution and first you're offering that you're on the 9th. In December, the budget speech will be held, then on 1 December. (b) to submit a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to Constitutional break remains constitutional break! You are obliged, if you act in accordance with the Constitution, to give your budget speech on 22 February. October to hold. That's where you know there's a lead time. Since you know that you have to start the deliberations at the latest four weeks before, so that the public would also have to know about your plans in good time before the Styrian and the Viennaer Landtagswahl. That's the true background. I therefore say that it is clear to everyone that you have primarily not made a Greece aid package possible, but a bank aid package. And when it comes to banks, your labor knows no bounds. Otherwise, in the last few months, it has not necessarily been possible to establish a work of this government. You are likely to be happy when the sessions are over this week, because then you will finally be back on vacation, which you have been living all year long, so that you won't be able to do anything again during these difficult times. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] But that's it: It is job refusal that you operate, more than 600 requests from the opposition side in the committees that have not found any treatment from your side to this day. [[Abg. Donate: 900!]] And that shows exactly your behavior, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, this also confirmed the EU's Commissioner for Economic Affairs Olli Rehn on Monday. He said something very interesting – I quote the press release –: “If any state has ruptured its national funds in support of affected financial institutions”, “he can rely on the EU’s financial back cover.” – Well, that shows where the journey is going. [[Abg. Gahr: Yes, yes!]] But when it comes to the Austrian budget, when it comes to representing the Austrians and finally making clear decisions and measures, then leave time, then step our constitution out of party-tactical motives with feet, then the Constitution is almost degraded to squatting paper. – For this immense breach of constitution, there is in fact only this one background! There you have enslaved and talked about things that do not at all meet the core of what you have deliberately purchased. In reality, you have great panic. SPÖ and ÖVP have equally great panic about the dramatic loss of the upcoming country elections in Styria and Vienna. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Go!]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] That's the panic that accompanies you. That is exactly what it is, and you can admit that, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Bundeskanzler! This panic accompanies you, and that's nothing too dirty for you, I say quite consciously. These are strizzi methods that you've given the best in here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] [[Abg. Amon: That's incredible!]] That's what it's really like to generate: Constitutional Break with Strizzi Methods! [[I would like to congratulate the FPÖ and Members who do not belong to the club.]] It's to get the way you deal with the Austrian constitution and then make yourself fluffy here and simply represent and explain it in a laissez-fair-like way. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Explain the “strazzi methods” to us first!]] It's for recovery! That is exactly what needs to be made clear: They are buying a breach of constitution in order not to have to tell people the truth before these elections. That's the only background. You are not moving the budget out of conscientiousness as you present it here today, and out of concern for Austria, but out of concern for Häupl, Voves, Marek and Schützhofer. This is your concern, which you have today addressed to this measure – purely from party policy tactics. [[I would like to congratulate the FPÖ and Members who do not belong to the club.]] The truth that you wanted to hide from people until after the elections just looks like you're planning a milliard tax increase and tax package, better said, under the Christmas tree – because it's clear that people should be given pure wine in good time before Christmas, which is to be removed from the wallets in the coming years. [[Abg. Amon: FPÖ has no more topics, you can see!]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the one point, I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: It is not only about tax increases, it is also about savings, but it has failed in recent years and decades. You don't hear that much from you until now. It is important to make administrative savings, not a question, but it is also about not burdening the weakest of the weak again. It is a question of being at last ready to use the savings potential that the Wifo and the Court of Auditors have shown, and not just turning on the tax screw again, as you are planning. In the long-overdue state, administration and health reform, billions are slumbering, and Wifo-chef Aeginger places €5 billion in short-term savings annually through structural reforms. Long-term, the Wifo calculates, it's even €11 billion of savings per year – without tax increases that you're planning on. Further savings potentials are also available in the area of subsidies. There we are European champions, European subsidisation champions! When we look at this: Austria spends 5.6 percent of GDP each year on subsidies and subsidies, which is a total of € 15.6 billion per year. The EU average is 2.6% of GDP, and in Germany it is only 2.4% of GDP. Before talking about new taxes, however, one has to put in place there, and that is exactly what we call freedom of choice: to research and stop this subsidy once! [[I would like to congratulate the FPÖ and Members who do not belong to the club.]] Finally, with regard to the budget roadmap, I can only make an urgent appeal to you – every appeal will probably be too late, but I appeal to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I appeal to the President of the National Council: Just remind the government that the Constitution will be respected and not broken, as it has been said!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9465	Mr Klubobmann Strache, I return to your choice of words – with all the passion of the debate. I hope that the colleagues of the Freedom Party do not commend your choice of words. I would like to thank you and everyone else who is in a passionate debate in the choice of words – and you have done so clearly, you know the ‘strazzi methods’! – make a small gift, one of Humboldt's thoughts: [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Man becomes man only by language. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now you have to tell him who Humboldt was!]] [[Abg. It is because of the behaviour, Mr President.]] – This is simple and for you to think! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: The Humboldt was certainly constitutional!]] [[Abg. Strache: Constitutional breach is protected by Mr President today!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e9555	Mr President. I might add a statement for the choice of words by Mr Klubobmann Strache: The weaker the content, the louder the sounds. This was clearly the case today in the speech by Mr Klubobmanns Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the time being, if the core of possible alternatives of the liberals is to be identified, I note that the Wifo has already said this and that and the Court of Auditors has already written this and that. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Today we have heard “concretely” what happens!]] Then we'll do it like this: Let's make a change! Let's put Wifo and the Court of Auditors here, and you're going out! That would be the simplest solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should then discuss Wifo and the Court of Auditors with us if you do not have your own proposals here, because that would be really interesting, and this also means that in the further procedure of the opposition's budget discussion, we now also have the opportunity to make proposals and put their comprehensive savings concepts on the table. [[Abg. May. Stefan: 60 : 40 is nothing at all! We have not heard any measures!]] Where are your budget concepts? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But the street isn't a federal chancellor, is it? Is it the federal chancellor?]] Where are your savings concepts? [[Abg. Strache: That's where I said more action today...!]] Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, you are also such a “cultor”. They also come and say: The Wifo has already said that the Court of Auditors has already said that! [[Abg. Bucher: Pride Parliament!]] – I’m just telling you that; You should take this into account. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But we agree, Strache is not a German chancellor, right?]] But it is worth reading in the stenographic protocols. What am I reading, what am I reading? – A year ago we had a budget debate here. Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke and warned against deciding a budget, said that the forecasts are being taken back, that for the 2010 budget, which is being drawn up there, it cannot be said what it should look like. [[Abg. Bookbooker: In blind flight!]] [[Abg. Bucher: For a two-year budget!]] He has made a request for referral back that we cannot decide for months on a budget! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are actually doing nothing but what the opposition said a year ago. What do you want? We're thinking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We want a government that doesn't think but thinks about it!]] We say: Yes, we want to draw up these forecasts. They will come back at the end of September. Now we do what you asked for a year ago, and now you don't like that again! They are a “me-fit-gar-nothing” opposition. That's a very weak announcement. But, Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, you're not the only one! What am I reading, what am I reading? – said Werner Kogler of the Greens: ‘The applicant is right in the case [...]. It is certainly limited in likelihood that this numbering work will be built on sand, and therefore it is simply reasonable to refer the template back.” – [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That would have been all constitutional!]] The next one who does not want to decide the budget either! That's how the Greens spoke here a year ago. – And because the blues look so happy, I can only say: I also found the words of a blue in the stenographic protocols. What am I reading, what am I reading? – Member of the Graezeit from your ranks – you will know them –: “The budget for 2009 and for 2010 – we have just talked about it – is from today’s day when it’s printed Makulatur [...].” So, that is, you all say that you should listen to the forecasts of the economic research institutes. [[Abg. We don't make any more budgets, according to Cap!]] So we five parties say this all here! That is why I do not understand this opposition strategy. [[Abg. Bucher: But you don't have it! That's a mistake! And you're in the government! It's worse!]] Who do you want to win with this strategy? If you really have read through the Constitution what we want to put to you now, then you know very well that the government has the opportunity to present a budget here, but it has the same opportunity not to comply with this date; then Parliament has the opportunity to present a budget. Then there are, in fact, You're not going to do that, but you won't, because of course, you don't put any savings-numbers on the table here, because of course you won't find that attractive. You're just talking about saving, but when it comes to concrete, of course, you don't think so, because you're saying that's not the task of the opposition, but that of the government. [[Abg. Bucher: 1 000 applications for opposition!]] Doing this Like Pontius Pilate: One of your club secretaries then holds the water bowls, and you wash your hands in them. - It's not that easy. [[Abg. Scheibner: “Very”! “Very” intelligent! “Very” high level!]] That is why I say to you: You have the possibility. And if we do not make a request, then the government can properly present the budget here, namely on 1st. December in the budget speech, and then we have it as always – we discussed it yesterday to fifth – two weeks of committee deliberations, one week of plenary. That is to say, the citizens who are watching now should know: This Parliament has enough time to deal with the budget, and a responsible process will be set in motion to draw up the latest data and forecasts. What you want is the following: The fact that fear and horror are now spreading – your understatement – then almost everyone begins to fear, and then the economic research institutes come and you can say: Hurra, you can correct it, that's all unfounded! – And what about the whole thing? [[Abg. Bucher: (demonstratively loosening his tie) But it presses a little, gel? It's pushing in the neck!]] To insure the population? In order to destabilise consumer willingness? In order to insure the economy? [[Abg. Bucher: Debtenberg!]] Does drawing apocalyptic images mean responsibility these days? [[Abg. Kickl: (significant to the government bank) The apocalyptic riders sit up there!]] Is it responsible to make a country that is one of the top-ranking countries in Europe, even around the world, which is an example of economic performance, employment, social security, the health system and, in fact, of all other areas, apocalyptic images? Step into your constituencies and make You always: Huch, bitch, bitch!Unknown term type: "%s".? They obviously say: Huh, heh, I just came from Vienna from Parliament and I heard the government, I don't think anything else, I don't have alternatives, but I know emotionally what's going to be going on in the next few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Joseph, read the Constitution!]] That's your message, nothing else. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Read Constitution!]] Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, you were not inside when I explained it earlier, but we can meet afterwards. I'm ready to go to a private body. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: (Keeping the volume “KODEX Constitutional Law”) I have seen it! That's why I brought it!]] I have just quoted Mr Kogler, who said at the last budget that it should not be decided, but that it should be postponed. He is known by your group. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Only one cap can understand such an interpretation!]] But that's why I'm saying: Please, let's sit together, let's use time! Let us find all five parties through a joint contribution and a national epaulment, especially in these difficult times, a common procedure! [[Abg. Bucher: You want... half the year standstill!]] What should be the common procedure? That's what I'm saying: Whether it is the revenue side or the expenditure side – Mr Bucher, you as an economic operator will know that these are the two sides that exist: Income, expenditure – the criterion of social justice must also be a very essential point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is also very important for us: Of course, we must be careful to ensure that everything is balanced, that the economy is further stimulated and promoted, because we want this growth and employment to continue, because it is the basis for financing our social security system and that social state and also the funding for education. It's not supposed to suffer. We are one of the few countries that have managed to ensure that, despite the financial and economic crisis, there is no collapse that we can continue the way forward, that the famous, much quoted “Austria’s advantage” does not become smaller, but larger. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “no burglary ” mean?]] [[Abg. Bucher: In debt growth we have an advantage! Not economic growth, but debt growth!]] That's where you're supposed to be. That should make you proud! You should actually go to your constituency and say very proudly: Yes, I have made my contribution to the fact that there is this national consensus that Austria's advantage is getting even bigger. [[Abg. Bucher: Debtenberg!]] – You should say that and not run around with a lemon face in the area and say: Uaah, horrendous, how's this going on, in which direction? [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Please, what is that?- Oh, my God!]] I'm afraid I can only tell you: That's horrible! Choose us, then everything will be different! - It's too little to talk about. That is why we say: There must be measures both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. Of course, it must be saved, of course, the areas are already obvious where to save, and it should not only be socially fair, but also sustainable and efficient. We'll put this on the table. The revenue side will, of course, also affect those who believe that they can escape the financing of the crisis they have partially benefited from. – Of course not! It will not be so that the middle class is the one who has all this to pay, and it should not be so that those who already have little, have even less, but it must be so that the upper ones, the super-rich, the rich are asked to cash out. There are means and methods for this. In this regard, we have already discussed many points, and you could actually take part in them, because we want to have a solidarity society, a society in which everyone is proud to be Austrian or Austrian, so that we further develop this advantage over the other countries. That is what we should do, and it is also important to do that with the right attitude. This is part of both revenue and expenditure. When saving, it always says: Well, save it. – Making debt is not socially fair either! This will benefit those who make the money for the loans. [[Ah-Rufe, Deputies of BZÖ and ÖVP.]] – Well, there’s an opinion anyway! Where is there a problem? I am pleased with the agreement of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public However, it may sometimes be necessary to pursue anticyclic policies to stimulate the economy, as we did together, when the effects of the crisis were in sight. That's what we all did together. The bank package is based on a five-party agreement. So where's the problem? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I am in favour of it – that no one can misunderstand me! – the proposals of the Economic Research Institutes, the Court of Auditors and so on are taken seriously. If, for example, the Court of Auditors makes proposals in Lower Austria, similar to at the federal level, to increase the scope for control so that, in the case of speculation, money is not lost, because it is known that a billion euros have been lost, then I am in favour of taking it seriously. [[Abg. Wheeler: Hello!]] This too is a contribution in the savings sector to which we confess ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10041	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to start with you, Mr President. It is well known that the Members of the Liberal Group and I, in particular, have very little in common, but I say to you one thing: It is not your job to measure Members from above, who point out that the government which is pushing itself into the house with a statement here does not comment on the matter which it has to explain. [[Abg. That's how it is!]] The honourable Member, Mr Strache, points out that you are taking measures to protect it and, in reality, the breach of the constitution is protected by you, Mr President. [[Lively applause with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This is not a parliamentary presidium! I don't know what your role is up there. And that's where we've been in this country for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10101	Mr Kogler, so that this does not remain in the room: I have not criticized the term “unconstitutional break” and “constitutional breakers”, but the term “strizzi” and “strizzi methods”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, yes, I heard that!]] – You should have been a little more careful.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10134	No, not at all! Klatsk Not so early, your conscience will still be required. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, of course we have heard this, but Mr Strache is still free in his speech when he describes this. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But that's not the main problem at all. The main problem is that the President-in-Office has so far not clearly explained how this will end. And I now explain to you the history before we come to what it is all about, because the Constitution is not so important to you, the motive is anyway another. The motive is the country elections and the thing to prevent the different concepts of the parties that arrive there from being discussed and confronted, so that the voters have a choice. – That would make sense in a democracy, but even that you are missing. That's what's going to be going on. Let us follow the course of each process. Over a year ago, we started to define the budget roadmap together – five parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] Mr. Cap, Mr. Kopf, you were both there. ==References====External links==* Official website In November 2009, the budget roadmap was decided – and of course a constitutional budget roadmap. You keep in mind the opposition of something that has, by the way, been done in a completely different context, but do not explain why you are turning away from your own signature. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Not something!]] – This explanation is still outstanding. Mr. Kopf, maybe you can get this back. The budget roadmap is a presidential agreement. Yes, if that doesn't apply in the house anymore, what's going to happen at all? [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] And that had a good reason. By the way, we have even been annoyed by the fact that this took weeks because you made it so complicated by the government that we came to the dates, from the chapters in the committee to the chapters here in plenary and to the final vote. It took weeks. You know what? – The house didn't cost so little money at all. Your party headquarters should perhaps re-found this to Parliament, because it is not to be seen that we as Parliament are binding the resources, so that at the end of the day the government will end up throwing everything over the pile, and then you will still be flattering instead of taking the floor. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There has already been a great deal of talk about constitutional conformity and the announced breach. We're just leaving that away now, because that's obvious to you. I'm just telling you: First of all, the Constitutional Legislator is not anyone, and secondly, he hopefully thought something about it. – You or your predecessors were all there. This has a meaning why, in a regular year, the budget is presented in October: so that you can get it in time and debate it for a while. You too should be interested in the budget and not always lose sight of what the government is proposing. That's the reason. And if you, Mr Cap – your cabarets have been more demanding before, I can only tell you by the way – quote what members of the opposition said here in the previous year, then let go of the fact that this was a completely different situation. To date, we still criticize this method, budgets, especially double budgets, to decide far ahead, where one can really claim that this is happening in the statistical forecast blind flight. That is actually the case, and the quotations you brought here are entirely true, and we stand for that. But what's present now is quite different: We have a regular marketing year, and that is why we have to comply with the rules. This would be different in any other European country. A government is advocating the Constitution. The government should actually work. The important thing to put forward is a budget. If you are not able to present a budget, don't sit down and say that we have failed because the cause is quite another one. And here I come to the country elections. One department flashes into its clientele and says we're just making rich taxes. Mr Cap and Mr Faymann will look at the day of the accident. The others say – I don't know, you're not even talking about the ÖVP at all – a little ecologization. There's nothing good about that, either, if it comes from you. [[Abg. Head: Aha! And that of the Greens! But that's interesting!]] Everyone says the matching in the direction of his clientele. The government would actually have stopped – I will tell you what we want, Mr Kopf! – to present a budget together. You can't do that! Then put yourself down and say we can't do that! Actually, you are ready to withdraw if you cannot comply with the Constitution if you break these rules. You don't follow the rules you've been praised on, but you stand down and say it's all grudging us, we're going to do so. They confess You don't fail – and all this just because you're afraid of these country elections! [[Abg. Head: Can I hold this for the Minutes again: the Greens are against ecologization!]] Now I'm telling you something else: It would actually be useful – and I might praise you for it – if all your tax plans were on the table in such a way that you can talk about what comes out in good time. You know, colleague Cap, it doesn't help much, from the experiences, when the SPÖ in June on the party day in the choir voted the hymn: only rich taxes!, and every day after the country elections, the day X plus 1, plus 2, plus 3, much further we won't come where you fell back. Tell the voters in Vienna and in Styria how the agreement between you and the ÖVP looks out what is coming after! That's the point. You're moving the budget because you want to run dial maximization before. It's just about the vote of the voters, which you're dizzying in a way that can only get you bad. And after that, You fall over again, that's your core competence, and that's why it's a cleaner. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] In fact, it is no shame that we have two government parties that are different, quite the contrary, but then we debate this in an orderly manner and in a regular time, and then you can see who represents which concepts and what comes out of you together. I'll tell you: Yes, save! You'll ask me: What do the Greens suggest? Yeah, that's exactly what it would be about, and that's also part of the country elections. Do you know what happened now? It's still getting worse. On the weekend, I will talk to the Styria Financial Council on the issue of what impact this will have on the election campaign, that in Styria – in some countries the situation is even more dramatic, so in Styria at least – we will have even greater budget cuts than we have to do here at the federal level. You know what he said? – Well, we don’t need to discuss this anymore in the election campaign, because the Federal Government is going at the end of the year and we don’t know what it gives us, what the financial compensatory negotiations result from et cetera. But now it's really over with fun. And that's obviously part of the exercise you're holding here: The representatives of the state government, who should now stand before the voters and say what they want, as it looks like – in the Styria, up to 25 percent of budget cuts, according to the lawn mower method, nothing intelligent – can now call upon you not to make a budget. That's why this Faymann/Pröll-Budgetfall is also a Voves/Schützenhofer-Schwindel and also a Häupl/Marek-Schwindel, because they can hide behind you now and you've done the same thing, and that's the real thing about it. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Of course, it's about comparing the concepts. We have no common ground as far as BZÖ and FPÖ are concerned, but we would stand up and say where the differences are, obviously, better than you do. Yes, save! We say save. Where? – In the case of environmentally harmful subsidies, in the case of tax privileges, which at last belong to the country, in the case of tax benefits for super-richs. And if you remove a few privileges, it may also hit the so-called middle class there or there. Yes, we confess that something will have to happen, of course! It is necessary to combat tax fraud, to implement the Court of Auditors' concepts and so on and so on. And we won't be able to do it all right, absolutely right. Last night, the basic tax debate broke out. I turn to the media because it's always as if everyone would never say anything. We are the only ones who are committed to developing a concept for what the Wifo and the IMF propose: The new basic tax, which brings more revenue, also helps the communities where more allowances are collected below, but the more paid on top. You of the SPÖ all say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Social Party! We must not tax the real estate of the rich, is not a subject now! But at the party day you sang quite different songs! And that makes you so unbelievable, and that is actually the reason why you take this procedure. And people should know that! In fact, you are denied the follow-up because what you are doing is harmful to democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The truth is reasonable to voters, and it is also useful, because it is not a shame, as said, that you have different opinions. But then confess to it, and then present your concepts, which at the end of the day look out as a possible compromise! A compromise is not a shame in democracy, of course. Show enough numbers You are pointing out what is decided unanimously here or at least by the Greens – yes, because we are finally constructive and we are committed to such proposals, even if they are unpopular, so that you can re-run your cheap game. But then stand before the elections and don't stop the game!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10259	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10280	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, thank you very much for the quotation from Humboldt. For you again, Mr Strache: Man first becomes man through language. [[Abg. Stache: And by his behavior!]] And by his behavior – and by his language. Mr. Strache! “Constitution breakers”, “Strizzi methods”, that says a lot about those who use such a language. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is reality!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You do it yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be here at this point in an excited and screaming discussion, or not a writing event, but we should all talk about it seriously, and this is urgently necessary: What does a country have and what does a country's policy have to do at 5 percent deficit, at €200 billion debt? – Budget renewal is announced. So let's talk about budget recovery! [[Abg. Strache: Then do it in time and in accordance with the constitution!]] The 2011 budget and the following will certainly be a huge challenge. We have to reduce deficits, we have to reduce debt, but, ladies and gentlemen, how is it all more important than when, because the budget will at least be decided in good time this year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's talk about how, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is a high tax country, so we are going to, and to do so, we are confessing to have to deal with budget reorganisation in the most part on the side of expenditure. Austria is a wealthy country thanks to the performance of many in this country. In other words, we will have to deal with the budget renewal as efficiently as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is thanks to God also a socially stable country. That is to say, we will make budget recovery balanced, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side – and if we have to do so with burdens, then in relation to the performance of each individual. That means: Balanced, socially acceptable and also generation-friendly budget adjustment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grauburd: A Sunday speech!]] Austria is thanks to God an economically strong country. This economic strength, the capacity of many in this country, we owe to our prosperity. That is to say, and the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it, we must, of course, review all the measures we are taking to re-establish the budget, including their growth effects, for their economic impact: Budget renewal must also be growth-friendly and growth-enhancing. But if we want to make our budget renewal, ladies and gentlemen, balanced, generation-friendly, performance-friendly, growth-enhancing, then we have to do the first thing on the basis of secure facts. Economic researchers are currently reviewing almost their forecasts every few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That won't change!]] In other words, it is quite legitimate to try to keep these economic forecasts or these data as secure from the budget as possible. That means, in the sense of Bucher, even in the spring of the debate on the Financial Framework Act, the later we do so, the safer the basis for our budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government wants more time from Parliament for the debate and for the preparation of the budget, but, of course, it must be sufficient time for this budget to be reviewed, for a multi-week review, as it was always the case. It must be time for at least four weeks of parliamentary treatment, as always. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: And how does it go until Christmas?]] It is necessary to ensure that the decision is taken this day. And it must be ensured that this budget is actually on 1st. Japan can enter into force. Then the meaning of that constitutional law, which we have agreed with each other, is actually fulfilled, because that was the meaning of this law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now we are talking about 'unconstitution'. I have even heard from the Green Clubwoman in the last few days the word “mutability” in this context. – Yes, we need courage in many areas of society. There would probably have been many discoveries, many inventions, many entrepreneurial achievements without courage – but courage in connection with the budget? I've read a recent saying: Courage is the victory of impatience over reason. So, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the budget it is probably better, it wins reason over impatience. That's probably the better way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say in this context: When it comes to all of us seriously, on 1st. January next year to be able to put in place a budget which will be fair to the demands of socially balanced, growth-friendly, performance-friendly, but also, of course, the way to reduce debt, to reduce the deficit that we unfortunately had to face, then it makes sense all the time to give priority to economic reason, to reality over speed. I really appeal to the opposition parties at this hour: However, if you criticise the election of dates, you will also show your understanding that the government, together with us in Parliament, wants to follow a path that will ensure a budget at the end of the year, but in time before the beginning of the year, which will meet all the previously apostrophic demands. We owe this to the population in Austria, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10448	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10469	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the government declarations by Federal Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, we have heard the word “stolz” several times: proud of the debt mountain, proud of the deficit, €13 billion deficit in 2010. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government is proud of the debt as a monstrosity! That is why you, Minister of Finance, are the nation's debt vice! Never before has a Minister of Finance made as many debts as you, Mr. Finanzminister! Never before in the Second Republic, never before! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We have a debt of €200 billion at the end of 2010! There are the debts of the ASFINAG, where the debt of the ÖBB is not yet taken into account. If you add that, we'll get to a debt of €240 billion! I only remember, ladies and gentlemen, Greece, which has been pleading, has a debt of almost €300 billion. If we continue to do so, we will be there in two or three years, where Greece is today, and this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be in our interest! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That is why it is a white cock, Minister of Finance, when you are looking for expensive taxpayers to advertise millions of amounts to make it clear to citizens how high their debt is: With over €30 000, the people of our country are indebted when they get to the world. They use taxpayers to bring people closer to this amount. Finally, stop wasting the money, and finally start to save and make sure that this uncertainty of people is finally put an end to it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you tell me that at the last budget debates, where it was about assessing a double budget, the budget for 2009 and 2010, I said this is too early: Mr Cap, there is a one-year budget and there is a double budget. Double budget means two years of comprehensive budget, which has been adopted by Red and Black. I have compiled a documentation of all my quotations, which I now give to Mr Vice-Chancellor for reading. [[The speaker gives Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pray a paper.]] They adopted the 2010 budget in spring 2009. I didn't want to, I wanted to refer this back to the committee. Why? – Because there were no figures, data and facts that would have brought real reliability in order to adopt a careful and proper budget. That's why I was in favour of resetting the budget. That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! They are proud that unemployment is falling. – Yes, we are all happy here that we have more people in employment again, no question at all, but it would be good for you, Mr Vice-Chancellor and ÖVP Party Head, if you would also thank the economy for this, for the workers and employers, but especially for the economy that it has created these jobs. These have not been created by politics! Policy does not create jobs, but at best creates the framework conditions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Each time these debates focus on the economic crisis. It is good that the economic crisis has also arrived at you, but it has arrived everywhere, with people throughout the European Union, all over the world – as a result of a financial and banking crisis. But what people need now and what the economy needs now is planning and no uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. They leave people in uncertainty, no one knows what will happen to us next year, what burdens you are planning. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, say the truth: You don't agree on a 2011 budget! You don't find each other! There will be no budget! That's the truth! Get out of it at last! Until you have established a budget for 2011, you have not only run out of time, but also the voters in Styria and Vienna. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are invited by the European Union in the context of the Stability Pact agreement until the 2. To inform you of the measures you will take. ==References== June you had to provide this information. Mr Finanzminister, I ask you: Why is Parliament less worthy of you than the European Union than the EU Commission? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why are we, the elected representatives of the Republic of Austria, not worth receiving information about your tax plans that you have? Why don't you tell us? I must also address the President of the National Council. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The President plays a very bad role!]] Why, Madam President, do not go with self-confidence into this debate and say: We don't like that!Unknown term type: "%s".? Next to you is a conspirator of Austrian parliamentarianism, who has been sitting in here for 25 years, colleague Cap, who always says: [[Abg. Grosz: For 40 years!]] We must not let that happen! We are people's representatives, we are self-thinking people here in the House and can also be proud of it! We cannot do that if the government tells us when we have a budget to adopt here! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black – and I am appealing to your independence as well – this is a white mouthing of your two political groups that is taking place there. Finally put yourself on your back feet, prepare this duck for an end, say: That's not how it is! We are not required by the Federal Government to break a constitutional law! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is quite a call for a breach of justice! We are those in the High House who make the laws, and now we are called on by the Federal Government to break our laws, our regulations and even our constitution. – Where are we going, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! I must ask you, Mrs Prammer: What do we need 183 Members for? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do we need a president for?]] What do we need them to do if they only sit here as a voice and only wave through what the Federal Government prescribes? – That’s much too complicated! We do not need these structures, they are long overdue and in need of reform. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The reason – and this has already been addressed several times today – for the budget shift is that there are still two country elections ahead; they have simply cheated in some way, the country elections in Styria and Vienna. That's the real reason. You don't want the voters to know what savings package or what load package comes on you next year. That's the real reason. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pröll, in particular! It's so cynical – it's no longer cynical – that you lie to people for months, that you don't tell the truth for months, and then next year every citizen, every taxpayer, and especially the middle class with the tax culprit one over the head. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What?]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's fact!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is white cynicism, which is now being broken by the Federal Government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] People in our country expect reliability and honesty. You use the excuse that you are missing the economic data of IHS and WIFO. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The WIFO is red, the IHS is black. Send the two clubs to the desert and rely on plan economic figures from the private sector, then you will also get a budget! If you don't trust your own people and don't trust them, go back to the ministry and get your numbers there! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we need more planning, more reliability and a federal government, which is full of courage and willpower to finally take up reforms. You won't be spared it. No matter what economic performance will look like next year, whether it goes up or down, it doesn't matter: They are not about reforms in the field of administration, education, pensions and health! They steal from it, that's the truth. They are literally running away from the reforms, and this delaying tactic will be especially felt by taxpayers, the middle class. We from the BZÖ will fight this with every fiber of our political weight!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10660	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10681	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! There has already been a lot of talk about words that have been spoken about. Man is what he is, so to speak. I have to say, if I listen to what my colleagues Faymann and Pröll give of them, that's a devastating testimony. This is a revelation, there is not much left of this human being. I'll give you a spell on the trip so that we don't just stick to the words and the language. There are also the deeds, and there it is so beautiful: By their deeds you will recognize them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, is a gloomy realization with regard to you, because, unfortunately, it must be described this way, Mr President, whether it fits you or not and whether you want to contribute here or not – is the living breach of the Constitution. If I articulate this in the way it understands the population, then I have to say these are strizzi methods. Now and then, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is also about something else in this debate. That is why I would like to ask the spectators at home in front of the television sets whether they can remember what happened here in plenary a few weeks ago and also in public, in interviews, in connection with the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance. I therefore ask you whether you can still remember, because in times when billions are being pushed around at ever shorter intervals like the shopping carts in front of the supermarket, certain things can get confused. So the question is whether one can still remember this pairing of Mr Faymann and Mr Pröll, keyword Greece package, keyword Euro protection. Here behind me on the government bench, where they sit today and from where they talk long ago, but have not said anything, they are standing and have had nothing to do but proclaim, with already almost esoteric wisdom, how the Greeks have to go about getting out of the mess, which is admittedly far more angry than Austrian. And not only that, you have also explained to us in arrogance, how to tackle it in order to finally put the speculators and the dirty financial sharks on the chain and, so to speak, to limit neoliberalism. That was very detailed. There have been instructive recipes as to how to save, where exactly to save, which privileges in Greece are unsustainable, where the population needs to tighten the belt, so that all these unsustainable states belong to the past. In fact, you have actually saved here from the government bank from all over the world. That's what it looked like. And what now, ladies and gentlemen? What now, a few weeks later? – Now we are experiencing these financial zampanos, who have known everything about Greece that has saved the euro five times and not one time, sunk into humility. Now they don't know what to do anymore. Now it is necessary to think carefully, to think carefully and not over night, it has to be carefully balanced. At first I thought you would get the Nobel Prize for your financial performance in connection with the Greece package; while, at the Nobel Prize, I think, one must be careful, for since Obama it is so that one gets him to do the opposite of what one has announced. But anyway – you have now sunk into a new modesty. Mr Cap, impressive was your explanation of why it is now this way: We have an uncertain economic situation. – I am sorry only for Mr Aigerer, because he is being abused here today because he has not yet presented something without which you are obviously not able to work. But even more is he sorry because the proposals for reform that have come from the WIFO for years and decades are being put to the end by you in the drawer, instead of finally thinking about implementing them and saving them. Mr Aigerer and the WIFO are therefore de facto to blame for the fact that the Austrians have no security, no planning security and do not know what is on them. Colleagued head of the ÖVP has given up by a very interesting knowledge: We have the biggest crisis since the 1930s! - But go! This is interesting: The crises justify the breach of the constitution! This is an interesting historical model that should be transferred to other times to see if it was a matter of fact, which should always be applied. I now turn to you, Madam President, as the guardian of the Constitution here in the House: Are crises really to be overcome by breaking the Constitution? I think if you look back a little bit into history, you'd see that this is a relatively unfit element, so you can't argue that so seriously. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has already used to a lot in the negative sense, but the population is also quite saddened, but this third process you are presenting in terms of budget shift over this magical deadline of the two elections in autumn is already a new piece of unfrozenness that you deliver. This also shows that red and black are in agreement in one thing, although otherwise they are biting and biting and wadel everywhere and have nothing else to do but fight each other. When it comes to taking up the population, you are strangely agreed. Then pull on a strand, then make a common cause. – This too is very informative. All this just to somehow get over these two elections in the autumn. This is the truth behind this shift, nothing else at all. In the background, I tell you, you have already put in place the red and black social policy demolition mountain. You will cross the population with the Caterpillar once these two elections have been struck. You are not only unbelievable – you have proved this in the past, Mr Pröll; You should not promise anything, it is not worth nothing – you are not only incapable – you prove it if you are not able to do so without Mr Aiginger’s papers – but now you are still cowardly, because you are not the people and do not give their pure wine at a time when you will always say: We don't have time to lose! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's going to happen? They're talking about property tax, property tax. – These are not the latifundias of the super-rich, and this is about taking the owners of apartments that house builders to the kandare. This is your target audience, because otherwise you do not even come to the large volume of savings that you have to bring in in view of the billions of graves that have started from Greece. I sometimes have the suspicion, I tell you, that you may know that there are billions more tombs – perhaps a Spanish tomb, perhaps a Hungarian billion tomb – that this package of horrors you have bound will once again blow up that you may need this time to pack in these new horrors and then present them to the people as a Christmas present. [[Abg. It's a Portuguese!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: Many social achievements – 13. Family aid, 13./14. Monthly salary and so on – will go in the known form, your privileges will remain! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:51]] [[11:50:55]] Ordinary Call
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10761	Mr Kickl, for the conscious use and repetition of the term ‘Strizzi’, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But when the booker said that the government is lying, there was none!]] – He immediately corrected himself! Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10800	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We've got 4 on the 4th. In May of this year I had the hearing of the Federal Financial Framework Act, and in preparation for today I have read again what the experts have said. They have essentially approved it, though with quite critical comments. I have found two quotations very remarkable because they fit very well with this statement today, on the one hand, on the subject of reserve of the economy: If the growth forecasts worsen in the autumn, one should create the opportunity to change consolidation. - Quote. The second quote: In view of the difficult economic situation, I recommend taking decisions on fiscal consolidation as late as possible, because this allows for a better assessment of further development. [[Abg. Head: Who was that?]] One was from Rossmann, the other from Marterbauer, who, in principle, both pleaded for it: wait as late as possible, the autumn forecast coming at the end of September, in order to be able to include the current economic data in the budget process. In essence, what the government has declared today is nothing else. I find the whole thing to do with the elections exciting, but the 20. October is my knowledge also after October 10th. October, and that is, the budget speech on 20 October. The elections were held in Vienna in October. ==References== December is also after the Vienna elections, and that means that the budget speech will only take place after the Vienna elections, but that is nothing but what has always been planned. ==References====External links== December is too late, I can say: Yeah, that's right, then we wouldn't have done a reasonable parliamentary process. ==References====External links== We have as much time as any budget on December. I think on average the parliamentary process lasted 29 days, now it is 28, so one day less than in the average of the last 15 years. In principle, there is just as much time, and hopefully this time will also be used qualitatively to debate it properly, and not to debate it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I do not think that the question of when the budget speech takes place, when the budget is discussed, but the content of this budget is crucial. The question is, as this budget is presented as the first post-crisis budget – the other budgets were crisis budgets – whether we see that we have drawn lessons from the crisis. We note that, unfortunately, there are parts, including politics, that have not yet removed the lessons from the crisis, because if I look at the fact that 1 billion € has been speculated in Lower Austria and the responsible ones there, Sobotka and Pröll, do nothing but do, as if nothing had been lost at all, as if the Court of Auditors were wrong, then this is a real scandal. If you are already engulfing 1 billion, you must also have the courage to stand in front of the voters and make a pure table. Unfortunately, this is not happening in Lower Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budget will provide important answers to important questions, such as: Who pays for this crisis? The SPÖ has already said in January that we want at least a contribution from the banks in Austria, namely the bank levy of €500 million net. After initial hesitation, the ÖVP is now also in the boat, and we are developing the exact model. It is not so important for us when this budget is presented, but it is important for us that it contains this €500 million and that the banks also contribute to the rehabilitation and payment of this crisis. That is crucial for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We all know that our tax system allows great injustices today, because you can earn money in different ways. There are people who get a great tip at a hunting company, namely to invest in hypo shares, and then earn 200 000 euros within a year. What has been their personal performance in making this €200 000? To go to the bank twice: once to pay down, once to cancel – 200 000 € have more! What's their tax performance? - Zero! 200 000 € Income, no euro tax! There are also people who go to work for their money – around 90 percent of Austrians must live by having to go to work; there are also some in education and the like, you must not forget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] If someone wants to earn €200 000 by hand or headwork, then he cannot do the first thing within a year, but must go to work for five to ten years, every day, and secondly he pays about €100 000 for it, i.e. about 50 percent, taxes and taxes. And this ratio no performance/no tax: high performance/extremely high tax simply must not be. That is why it is essential for us that, in the budget, too, it is clear that we are getting more tax justice that those who have a high income, who earn millions and don't pay taxes, pay just as taxes as the people who go to work for their money. That's important to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The situation on the labour market, unemployment, also these are very important questions for us. Although in Austria we have the second lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and the rise during the crisis was very low – there have been many positive measures in this Federal Government: Short work, as already mentioned, Youth Training Guarantee et cetera – but unemployment is still on record. Yeah, she's been sinking for a few weeks, but it's too slow. It will also be decisive in this context that we recognise in this budget that the Federal Government will take the responsibility seriously and develop a wide range of measures – there are many good proposals from the experts on how to create more employment – and that the Federal Government is doing everything possible to allow as much employment as possible to promote employment in this country so that unemployment is reduced again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] If a budget fulfils these conditions, I am honest, whether the budget speech is on 20 June. ==References== ==References== If these contents are inside, we will agree to the budget. I therefore expect the Federal Government to look for justice, for who pays for this crisis, and for the labour market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10879	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e10901	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a result of the last sentence, in which Mr Krainer referred to him, it does not matter whether the budget is available on 22 October. ==References== In December, I would recommend that the representatives of the government groups present a new federal constitution, in which Article 1 applies: Austria is a democratic republic. Their right goes from the people. Everyone is obliged to comply with the laws – with the exception of the Austrian Federal Government. An explicit exception from the Austrian Federal Government to comply with the laws of the Republic of Austria, I would recommend that if you see this so loosely, if it doesn't matter to you when a budget is presented. I would like to make it clear once again, and I would like to make it clear once again to the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office and also to criticise the Ministry of Finance for the argument they have made available to the government that has gone to all the media with which they are hiding and trying to deceive and defy and simply push away this breach of constitution. I would like to explain this again. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, how would you see this: On the Austrian motorways you can drive a maximum of 130 kilometres. Of course, in the road traffic regulations, consequences are provided for in the event that you do not comply with this provision, for example, by driving 160 kilometres of time. Nevertheless, you have the opportunity to drive 160 on the motorway, but you will of course be punished. The fact that you do not have to fear sanctions if you do not submit the budget does not relieve you of the obligation to present such – of course not! – nor do the Austrians have the freedom not to comply with the road traffic regulations. Would you now also write a Constitutional Opinion: Of course, every 160-hour-kilometre can drive, it doesn't matter anyway!Unknown term type: "%s".? I mean, right must stay right. How many times have your ministers said this in recent weeks? How many times? [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] It is rare enough that all constitutional lawyers agree, even if you look into Austrian history, but this ten-week frist has always been taken very seriously. There have also been governments that have resigned because this Ten Weeks-Frist has not been observed. So, the Constitution does not apply to you. Mr Cap, you say that the Constitution also provides for alternatives, namely emergency proposals, if the government does not comply with this obligation, then of course Parliament must jump in. This, however, is far from decomposing the government's commitment. How do you imagine that? Well, a budget is important, but do you think a state, a republic can come out without such emergency provisions? And you argue with these emergency provisions in the form that it's meated for whether you're presenting it or not?- Oh, my God! I rarely heard a cynicism like that! This is an express constitutional provision. I'm sorry, but There's nothing to discuss at all. And this note from the BKA is actually in the Recycle Bin, I say openly. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] So the Constitution doesn't count for you. All citizens, all citizens are bound by the laws, but with you it is even more: You are committed to the Constitution, namely all of you as ministers, as well as we as Members of Parliament. Your oath doesn't count either. Then there is the signature of the clubmen. – Nor does her signature count. What does Parliament still have to do with it? Eid, Constitution, signature? Vice-chanc Pröll is now trying with a promise – a bad attempt, an extremely bad attempt. We're used to a lot of you. They have sworn for months: Read my lips, there will be no tax increase, I promise. – So, what is worth something in this republic to the citizen and the citizen at all? [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] This is not about country elections at all, but only this insolence, as it is about to rise above it, to take action against all the rules, against everything that is made out is a real affront. And why are you doing that? – They give themselves time by doing so. You say you need time to create the budget. I believe that the population also needs time to be involved to be able to speak with, to point out, yes: This regulation is overwhelming, this is unfair, it is unfair. The Federal Chancellor spoke of fairness. I ask you to be fair to the population! The population has a right to learn something in good time in a budgetary process, to also express protest in good time, to say in good time: That's not what we want, we want something else. With this plan of combat, which you originally had in mind, you would have realized any resistance, any participation of the population in classical black and blue manners, that is to say, within two weeks. And against that we turn in all clarity and in all determination. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] They want to go over it and then disappear into the Christmas break as soon as possible and close the package again. And then the Austrians should look at how they come into the next year! It is also about a certain degree of security, about planning security and also about life security. Many people are in very difficult situations. What is going to happen now? Will they continue to receive family allowances? Will there continue to be the same social benefits? Indeed, its Federal Financial Framework Act provides for the majority of social savings, in the care, in health, in education, in science, in universities, in schools, in kindergartens. 60 percent of the savings are expected to happen in this area! But you say two or three weeks of consultation are enough! And then is the population supposed to see how it's going on next year? That's extremely unfair! And this is not about election struggle, but simply about a fundamental fairness to the people in this country. You are obliged to do this – even without a constitution. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] And I can assure you: The Greens will be side by side with all those people who do very, very much in these areas – pensions, health, family, youth, social insurance, consumer protection and environmental protection – to fight for certain areas to be excluded from your brutal savings package that will come. Austria also needs reasonable planning of the future, and not only welfare arguments in order to be able to hold an election campaign in Vienna in peace – and then to be able to push through the brutalities. We're not going with that! The hardest resistance from the Green Group also over the summer is certain to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11022	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11043	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to say a request to two of my colleagues from the coalition partner SPÖ, Mr Klubobmann and Mr Krainer. Both have spoken of the fact that housing funds in Lower Austria were speculated by 1 billion €. [[Abg. Heinzl: Isn't it true?]] My request would be: Don't believe in the SPÖ Lower Austria party press service, look at the Court of Auditors report! I got him here. The Court of Auditors report says that the net assets of housing funds, taking all payments into account, are €66.7 million higher than at the beginning, i.e. more than at the beginning of the investment. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] And in the interests of the good coalition climate, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, I really ask you – I really ask you, I am looking for you! –: In the future, we rely on data and facts and not on press releases of party groups. Are we in agreement? Okay. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, but now on the real issue. I think the debate so far has shown that the budget timetable has not been changed from jux to tolling. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, yes, the rule of law...!]] He has been changed, Mrs Glavischnig, because we have a situation that we have not had for 80 years. We have not had such a financial and economic crisis for 80 years. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stay with the truth! Get in touch!]] This has an impact on the budget when, of course, we took a lot of money into our hands, Parliament and the government, a lot of money to fight the crisis. We succeeded, we were successful. We have stabilised the financial markets, there has been growth impulses for the economy. That cost a lot of money. And I have already said, Mr Bucher, it is still relatively simple to agree politically on how to spend more money, it will be much more difficult to agree politically on how to implement consolidation. We had no such situation for 80 years, Mr Bucher. You've got to admit that. It is a special situation that is actually unique – not only with us, but also in many other countries of the world. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a chuzpe that you claim!]] Hans-Werner Sinn from Munich is absolutely right: All the countries of the world have fought the crisis over public debt. That is why we do not have a normal budget to decide, but we have a budget and a restructuring programme for the future of our country. [[Abg. Bucher: Do it at last!]] And a second: Of course, forecasts are always uncertain, not at all a question, but as uncertain as they have never been. They've never been so insecure! The economic researchers themselves say: We're going in the fog. And since, honestly, I prefer to make a budget decision if I have the last data, and not data that are already out of date when decision-making. This has been your argument, Mr Bucher, half a year ago. [[Objection to the BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Read the budget debate! I'd rather be on the safe road than on the unsafe. The third point, ladies and gentlemen: There are also many different opinions. It is about finding a balance between consolidation on the one hand and growth impulses on the other. There are different views among economic researchers. In recent weeks, we have experienced the struggles between the USA and Germany, Obama and Merkel. One of them says: Let's start earlier with consolidation, the others say: Don't stop the growth impulses early! It is therefore a very delicate task not to find this balance between growth impulses and at the same time to combat public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we live – as honest as we have to be – at a time that has only a single mark: the pace and the speed of change. There have always been changes in history, no question at all, but the pace has never been as stunning as it is at present. I've mentioned it before: I was in the European Union Financial Committee in March. At that time, Dominique Strauss-Kahn said that we must be very careful not to get a crisis of state finances after the financial crisis from which an economic crisis occurred. – And three weeks later she was there! So fast is the pace of development. That is why I say that I really prefer a future pact for our country on the basis of the last available data, because I am then on a safe path rather than on the basis of outdated data. – Mr Bucher, you still like to smile so much, that's just the truth. I understand that you now believe you can change political change. I understand. But do you know, colleague Bucher, what the people in the country are saying? I told you yesterday. I had two events in my constituency yesterday. That's where people talked to me about what happened in the paper. The only thing they said was: Yes, you have no concern in Parliament but to argue whether a budget speech is three or four weeks earlier or later? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Does the Minister of Finance have no concern other than...? - That's a joke!]] That's how people in our country think. And I think it's counterproductive for you to do what you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I am not your counselor; you can do what you want. You can also make a special meeting every week. But the people of this land are not so stupid as to take away from you what you spread about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also point out – Mr Vice-Chancellor has already said it – that we had a very intensive budget debate in this year. We have created a new budgetary law – incredibly important – that we have entered into a debt brake for the next four years, a covert of expenditure. [[Abg. Bucher: This is not a brake on debt!]] Who voted against it? – All three opposition parties! This is also typical: Play “Oberg’scheite”, know everything better, but don’t take responsibility – that’s the opposition! [[Objection to the BZÖ.]] We have a debt brake here, and now we have the next steps of the sequence: Now all ministries do their homework and have to look at how they achieve this saving goal in the respective department. We could make it very easy and we could decide something right away, but then we decided to increase taxes. We can do that right away! But we need to exploit these savings potentials – they are undoubtedly present – which is correct and serious. The quality of work undoubtedly takes precedence over the pace. Let me also say the following – I have said that before –: Mr Finanzminister's statement: If you save more, you need less taxes! It also aims to keep us waiting until we have all the savings proposals on the table. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we did not, we might not have a ratio of 40 : 60, but perhaps one of 90 : 10. I say we also feel like the taxpayer's lawyer. As little as possible should be done about taxes and as much as possible expenditure savings. That is responsible policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11229	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11250	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join you right now, my colleague. If that's the way you say now that you need the budget in relation to 60 : 40 would like to cover, i.e. 60 per cent savings, 40 per cent of additional revenue – with Mr Cap saying here a few weeks ago, 60 : 40, 50 : 50 perhaps; if it does not matter, that is just a few billion, but so precisely we do not take it with the tax revenue – Mr President, if it is the case that 60 per cent of the expenditure is to be saved, then it would be just an argument to do that now to discuss now. How do you want to do this if you decide a budget in December, then if you decide on the 12th? October, two days after the Vienna Landtagswahl, start to discuss the proposals for savings? How do you want these 60 percent expenditure savings a few weeks later, on 1st. January 2011, effective? That's impossible! We now need to discuss and not wait for these savings proposals and structural changes in Parliament together. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Stumbling and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, because you said: Well, you have to wait. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll stands at the government bank and speaks to Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] – I would like to wait until you finish your discussion, Mr colleague, but it would be important for us to discuss this now, because you, too, have kept us from saying that we have to make the budget earlier, and before that we have said: No, later. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Klubobmann Bucher then, when it came to discussing a double budget for 2009 and 2010, said that the double budget is not serious for 2010, it is not useful to decide that already. We were in the middle of the crisis at that time, and it really hasn't been known how the year 2010 will develop and if it wouldn't be better to wait. Mr Vice-Kanzler, at the time you said – in April 2009, now we have July 2010 – and I quote you, unless you make sense to enter into the negotiations for the 2010 budget, otherwise you will have to negotiate immediately; we will do everything together, because “it will not change much, and therefore it makes sense for these two years now” – April – to “put the perspective on the table.” – And that at that time, in the middle of the crisis, when you really didn’t know how long it will last. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] – Mr President, this is really incredible! You're always saying you're the best speaker here in the high house, and you're asking for you to listen, and you're going out here now, and you're gonna get the government into a conversation. That's really rude! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Calm down!]] I'm calming down, but you're an example of this: They give us censorships here, what we should do in order not to generate political change; You are the best example of the fact that you are really concerned with party politics. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's exactly what you're talking about! Do not distribute censorships, wrapped up You are not here in any small political discussions, but try, Mr President-in-Office of Parliament and financial speakers, to hold here together a truly objective discussion on the budget. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That would be it, and not any calls from the upper-masons over there who only emphasize when it comes to saving something in the regional area and in the municipalities and in the countries! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, where are the savings potential? Mr Cap said yes: Well, put something in front of you! – we already know that – and: Wuh, woh!, he said. Mr Cap, what did you read yesterday that you were so on the Cabaretist side today? I remember: When we raised the minimum pensions by 5 per cent, you spoke of pension robbery. That was no uncertainty at the time – now at once it is uncertainty?- Oh, my God! Mr Cap, we have proposals and we want to discuss them with you, including for the 2010 budget. When it comes to saving, for example, on health and social security, we have a proposal: Put together social insurance – pension insurance, accident insurance, health insurance for all workers and for all self-employed and for all farmers. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this would be a sensible proposal. Let's talk about it. Or: a common national hospital concept, so that we do not have regional concepts with which each national icon wants to build his own system extremely expensive. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there would be €3 billion to save! 3 billion € of tax money a year would be saved there! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And as far as pensions are concerned: We don't want to rob the pensioners. They have their rights – no problem. We want to start with special pension rights: that you can't go to pension with 52 no matter where that is. We have said that fair is a pension account for all, and everyone decides for himself what pension and when to retire. – A concrete proposal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the case of taxes: We have the system of fair taxation with the flat tax – uniform tax, easy to understand, promotes purchasing power, promotes the economy. Let's talk about it! Mr Cap, on the subject of administration: We have said that we support 100 percent of the concept that the Minister of Education has presented here, because that is also our concept, which is also the concept of the Court of Auditors – uniform savings, a level savings, performance-oriented, promoting school locations. No problem, just: What about implementation? Where are the negotiations with the countries to make these skills adjustments? That would be the important things. The Court of Auditors has said that €1.5 billion will be saved in this area alone and invested in quality. Much more could be added here: of course, the adjustment of competence, for example, between the federal government and countries, the administrative bodies, also the legislative authorities, reduce the days of the countryside. These are things we need to discuss now! It is not just that you say that the budget will be decided sometime in December, but it will not discuss what proposals there are. I spoke to a minister. I said: Let's talk about it, but you're not ready. – Then he says: Oh, yes, I have already made my savings proposals. We're done, but we have the instructions in the Federal Government that we're only on the 12th. In October, we were allowed to talk about these things publicly. Ladies and gentlemen, why? October? ==References== ==References== October? - Because on the 10th. The local elections are held in Vienna and two places before the Styrian country elections! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is the only reason why we cannot discuss this important reorganisation in the budget and in the administration. You'll only make more tax increases! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Party politics is already in order – for party politicians. But for government leaders, state policy would be needed, and unfortunately we miss it very much with you – at the expense of the welfare of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11379	For the last round of speakers, there are almost 7 minutes each for strong discipline. Mr Kurzmann is speaking next. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11403	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to begin with a comment on the clubman of the Austrian People's Party, Mr Kopf, whom I do not see in the hall. Maybe he'd be kind to someone. [[Call the ÖVP: There he is!]] - Now he's back. Mr. Klubobmann Kopf, you have been very excited when the liberal Klubobmann Heinz-Christian Stracheden called "Strizzi", who is not so familiar with us as a federal representative. [[Call the ÖVP:Scandalös!]] You, Mr Klubobmann's head, have, however, left something unanswered, which would be far more serious as an accusation: When Heinz-Christian Strache called the two gentlemen behind me, the Federal Chancellor and the Vice chancellor, “constitutional breakers”, there was no contradiction from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this were really the condition of Austrian democracy, that there would be a conscious breach of constitution, then we would be on a very dangerous path. But back to the budget proposals that are not yet on the table, but that you will bring late. I say quite openly to you, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor: The Austrian population, the Styrian population has no understanding for your burden policy! And the people don't understand the beauty that you've run from this government bank here today! No person in our country, ladies and gentlemen, understands that you are handing billions of euros abroad – keyword: Greece’s aid – but only a short time later, you want to tax the Austrians with billions of euros on taxes and taxes. Your guiding principle is obvious: We are wasting Austrian tax money abroad, but we are saving for it all the more brutal among our own people! Ladies and gentlemen! Our policy, the policy of the Freedom Party, is another. We say quite clearly: Austria first! And: Our money for our people! – These are our slogans that we present here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If billions of loans are already to be granted on the international capital market, please use them domestically: for our unemployed, for ensuring the health care of the Austrian population, for security in our country – but not for foreign countries! No one in Austria understands why you immediately moved €2.3 billion to Greece – in one, as we all know, corrupt Greek political landscape, for Greek banks, as well as for French banks in Athens and for speculators. [[Abg. Grosz: Why do you want a Greek investor for the hypo?]] In the same breath, ladies and gentlemen, you – and for this no one in the population understands – want us to buy the increase in taxes in Austria, and make a policy by which we are subjected to burdens. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, not we, not the Austrians have lived over their circumstances, you may both have over Your circumstances lived, but you have to take note of one thing: In Austria, there are a million people at risk of poverty, but this does not seem to have happened to you! [[Abg. Grosz: Why do you want a Greek investor for the hypo?]] Most Austrians have fewer and less income. In Styria, for example, last year we had an unemployment rate of about 50,000 people – rising! [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's not true!]] Many thousand jobseekers, ladies and gentlemen, are currently being hidden in re-training courses so that they fall out of official unemployment statistics and do not appear. The result of your policy is social reduction – which cannot be disputed – is the deterioration of living conditions for many Austrians. On the other hand, on the other hand, you often play the model student of the European Union and lower our money in the corruption summary of Athens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I was, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in Hartberg, a very beautiful East Styrian city, and I was there in front of the works towers of the Triumph company. In the next few months, already in October of this year, 300 women, including very many single female workers, will become unemployed. The company Triumph closes this important location. And I wonder, What does this Federal Government do for these women? Have you tried to set up a work foundation? [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Yes!]] Have you tried to help these women in concrete terms, not with banalities, as we often hear them in this House, when it comes to the ‘innen-I’ or the ‘gener’ chatter, but with concrete measures that really help women!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: We did it!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget with 1. May next year the term of protection for the Austrian labour market ends. This means, for our Styria, that thousands of unemployed, unemployed people from Hungary, but also from Slovenia, will flow into Styria and our people will be driven away from the Austrian labour market. There, Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are required! You have to make sure that our people in this Republic are better!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11589	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11611	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! The speech by Mr Kurzmann once again proves that it is not far from the point of view of the honesty of his arguments. Then: In triumph, the exact opposite of what he said is the case: The social ministers and the trade unions or the social partners are very much trying to find a solution there. And it is good that we take care of this and we have not waited for you, Mr. Cot. We're with the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kurzmann.]] Because we are already on the subject of honesty: After the negotiations on budgetary law were conducted very emotionally – also by witnesses – I would like to clarify the facts a little. Several years ago, when we were still in opposition together, Mr Kogler, we negotiated the new accounting law with the then government parties Black and Blue, Black/Blue wanted the regular double budgets. We have been committed to setting ourselves: as soon as possible to the new year! Why? – Because the threat of a deviation is so great that it is convenient to define the details at the end of the year before. But we said: We understand the argument that we need medium-term budget planning!, and we have decided together – I even imagine: unanimously – the new budgetary law, in which we stated that we are putting the discourse on the budgetary path, on the framework in which policy is taking place, in spring, always in advance for several years, and the part of the discussion, as we do in detail next year, at the end of the year. But we have not changed one thing: the 10-week-Frist!, it already stood inside. This comes from a time when the budgets were still being discussed in their entirety, and it was therefore necessary to discuss this time for the entire budget. Now we have already completed half of the discussion, ladies and gentlemen, and the government is now finally trying to do what former governments should have done: in the event of serious uncertainties in the prognosticism, as the next year looks forward, with enormous consequences for the population and for businesses in the measures to be taken, as far as possible, on the basis of the last figures. I understand that, because we need to be clear about what that means. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then we change the Constitution!]] If we have instead 1.3 percent growth 1.9 percent, that means 0.3 percent on the tax and tax side. That's where we're talking about 1 billion euros! And that raises the following questions: What does the social framework look like? We have now set 500 million as a framework. Then how does it look in the area of the unis? Then how does it look at the schools? What about family promotion? This may then depend on whether the 1 billion is there or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Mr Bucher, I do not want us to have a budget based on a wrong forecast, which contains measures that may mean cuts that, if it goes well, we may not need to do so to such an extent. In this sense, it is important to me that we make the budget as much as possible based on the last data than that we make the 20th. October. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, we always do so and we change the Constitution if it is so well done!]] It's an honest policy we're making! The government could also have gone here and done the following: After all the elections, she could have put forward a federal financial law – which Mr Krainer has already pointed out – but not a budget-accompanied law. You're just talking about the budget-accompanied law – there's no 10-week-frist given for it! Formally correct! Then one would have waited until the budget accompanying law was there, and then it would have been exactly the same. Formally every letter would have been fulfilled! Material would not be a change. But I prefer an honest policy, as Faymann and Pröll have announced today, saying: We'll tell you right now, we need time! We will give you the same time of discussion, but we will make a budget that will, as far as possible, correspond to the current state of play! I think this is a failed policy as formal trickery with the date or with the title in the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And as far as the argument with the elections is concerned: Mr Voves rightly pointed out two days ago that this was of no use to him at all. [[Abg. Grill: The Voves is a bad example!]] But also the head of state Häupl does nothing. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes! They're hiding behind it now!]] And the Christine Marek does not use it either. Then: What does it mean, if it's actually not known what's happening? – On every occasion the opposition will paint on the wall, which will arise for horrors from a savings potential of 1.35 percent per ministry, that there will be a chaos that will have to lock every second school and so on. There's going to be a terrifying scenario out of small things. This may harm the politicians of SPÖ and ÖVP, who are in the country election campaign, more than if they knew what was going to happen. That is not the real reason either! The real reason is: We only want to put in place the most necessary measures so that we can implement budget consolidation because we want to avoid the budget strengthening the economic climate. We must be very careful, especially with the savings packages, that we do not suffocate the small economic plant now, so to speak. Because of responsibility for this country, because we know that the measures have serious consequences, we want to rely on the latest data from economic research and without tricks – keyword: Introducing the law ten weeks before – creating the budget, and therefore we say openly and honestly: We're still waiting for that! We want to make a budget that contains only the most necessary measures. [[Abg. Bucher: Let's change the constitution!]] We do this in full responsibility, and we will therefore have the best successes, as in the past, which is to defend one place in terms of low unemployment. We will do this with Chancellor Werner Faymann and Minister of Finance Pröll! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11753	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11775	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the expert hearing on the budget in May last year, the tax expert nominated by ÖVP, Prof. Gerhard Lehner, agreed that a consolidation plan should be drawn up as quickly as possible – as quickly as possible and quickly as possible, as it concerns safety and planning for people and companies in that country. I am convinced that the expert Lehner did not mean 13 months, because so much time has already passed, and we still have nothing on the table. – Responsible government policy, ladies and gentlemen, certainly looks different! Mr Matznetter, figures, deadlines – let us take a look at the background before which we will discuss the budgets of the next few years! For years, there has been a wild speculation on the financial markets. Governments have watched without fail. And a few have enriched themselves at the expense of many. What is the result? – The result is the most severe economic crisis for 80 years – with high unemployment rates and huge budget holes! But the cause of the crisis, protected by billions of rescue packages financed by the taxpayer, continue as before – without contributing to the crisis! And what does the Austrian Federal Government do? - She's still sharpening the situation! It is planning drastic reduction programmes for those who can't help this crisis, rather than courageously resort to those who have to pay for the crisis they have caused and who can also afford it. They are now called upon to finally stand up bravely – after all, the outbreak of the crisis has been almost two years behind – and to say: We remove the privileges of the foundations, we introduce a bank levy, and we are in favour of making a fair contribution to dealing with the crisis in the event of large inheritances and large donations! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One thing is clear: that ÖVP and SPÖ cannot save the future, because now we need to help people who can't do anything for this crisis and who need support now, and that is to make investments in the future. Investment in the future – this is the central question we now have to decide on and where to set the course! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] In fact, Mr President, there are two ways to do this: either cut-off and unfair distribution or jointly shape the future. And that means investing where it makes sense. And since education has priority, because investing in education means future, the opportunity to secure opportunities for young people. And if today Federal Chancellor Faymann speaks of low unemployment rates, I have to say: He is already looking through the pink glasses, because the current statistical figures show that more than 64 000 young people in Austria are without a job and therefore have poor prospects for the future, and it is quite clear that we now have more than ever to invest in education. It is also an hour's commandment to invest in environmental and climate protection now. That means: We should get away from the production of energy from oil and gas as soon as possible to generate energy from renewable energy sources. This would give us independence in the energy sector, and we would also have the opportunity to create jobs on the ground. Of course, it would also be important to reduce energy costs while at the same time supporting the strong companies we have in the environmental engineering sector in Austria, rather than wasting money on millions of heavy advertising campaigns, as is now happening by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Grillitsch: This is our policy!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In particular, investment in science, research and development is now important, because research means responding to the challenges of the future. But what does Austria do? – By 2014, around €300 million will be spent on these areas – and this is not about small things. I emphasize: 300 million € less! Germany is going a different way here. There you spend additional €12 billion in the research area. In view of this, you do not need to wonder about it or you do not need to puzzle who will have the nose in the next few years, because research means being competitive on the markets, having the best products and securing jobs in your own country. Because today the credo always means: Growth!, I would like to point out that the humus for growth is education, research and science. But there, too, you save. Tell the truth! Saving there is a serious mistake, because investing exactly in this area is important in order to meet the challenges of the future. Furthermore, it will also be a matter of distributing the burden fairly and shaping the tax system forward-looking, which means that taxes have to be changed ecologically and socially. This does not mean the mogel pack with which the ÖVP runs and which she says is the right way. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The right path is a non-profit-making eco-social tax reform, which gives us the opportunity to create new jobs and relieve labour, and, of course, a fair taxation of big assets, where we have long been in the final analysis compared to countries such as Great Britain, France and Switzerland, which are far ahead of us. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] In the end, there are two clear tasks for policy, which must now be dealt with courageously, the sooner, the better, because the time is running and the tasks are getting bigger and bigger: First: Those who have caused the crisis must make a fair and fair contribution to coping with this crisis. Secondly, We must now invest in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11869	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e11891	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lichtenecker, I would very much like to enter into a discourse with the Greens today, especially with your Clubwoman Dr. Glawischnig, who spoke here today in connection with the budget template very massively about a breach of the constitution, which meant that right must remain right. It would be very interesting in itself to have this debate. But I remember very well: A few weeks ago, when the Constitutional Court had passed a judgment that Ms. Zogaj was not allowed to stay in the country, here in the third row you rolled out a transparency: ‘Arigona must remain’. This is how you deal with the Constitutional Court and its decisions! [[Abg. May. Kogler: There is a right to stay! You don't know each other!]] They are therefore not really predestined to read or talk to us about the federal constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have no idea!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] By the way, one thing is very interesting, Mr Kogler. The Greens, in writing to the President of the National Council, have strongly criticised the process in connection with the budget timetable. Thank you, Madam President, I have asked the House's legal and legislative service to draw up an opinion. It is quite interesting that the experts – here on page 5 – when they fail to comply with the time limit provided for in the Constitution: In the event of a lack of time, the Constitutional Legislator – that is, we – has established explicit consequences. If the Federal Government fails to submit a draft in good time, for whatever reason – that is, the opinion of the constitutional judge, Mayer, whom you like to quote – Article 51a B-VG applies. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... parliament!]] Article 51a(1) 1 B-VG provides that, in the case of late submission, the National Council may also, by application of its members, submit the draft federal financial law. Where's your design? – You would have had the opportunity to present a draft today or even in October. [[Abg. May. Kogler: So such a thing of hypocrisy!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are as always in such debates!]] You have this opportunity, but you do not want to discuss your proposals. You would rather discuss our proposals, which is what we are talking about, but it is not very decent for you to criticize them and even in the whole debate to make a single proposal on the budget. [[Abg. Bucher: Is that a budget debate?]] In this opinion on page 5, however, it goes on to say: Article 51a(1) 2 B-VG further states that, if a government template is filed after submission of an initiative application, the National Council can still say: But we are dealing with the government proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are talking about a “unconstitutional” and in the speech – as Mr Strache has made – to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and to Mr Vice-Chancellor as a “constitutional breaker”: That does not correspond to the situation in the case of Weitem! By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is already remarkable – practically all speakers have pointed out – that we are in a not very dramatic economic situation. This is probably common sense, and a number of measures have been taken in this House together. In reality, we are talking about the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s, which Austria has managed relatively – clearly only a relative approach – but only because of the massive opposition. The right measures have been taken, for example in the labour market. Of course, we all have not been able to assume from each other that, for example, a measure such as short-time work does not lead to unemployment at the end of the day. This has not been the case for most of the time. People today have jobs and jobs again, and the unemployment rate is falling, ladies and gentlemen! This is the positive message of today. In the area of banks and the financial market stabilisation package, I believe we have put in place essential and appropriate measures that will sustain the financial cycle and ensure that there can be investment and that the economy can act accordingly. But we also need to look at the causes of the crisis! These are, of course, curable speculators on the one hand. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, these are also states that act as if the money had been abolished! These are states that pretend to have no morning, states that do not think of the next generation in their financial and economic policies. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to do differently. We want to present a budget that is balanced, in which the social symmetry is true, but in which it is not broken down, as has been argued here. [[Abg. Grosz: You don't believe that anymore!]] No, there is a budget in which there is growth impulses in which research and development, in technology, is invested in education, but in which, on the other hand, structures that are obsolete are also considered, in the area of administration where reforms are being made, reforms that bring closer to the citizen are even more close to the citizen. [[Abg. Grosz: Whoever lies, you don't believe him, and if he speaks the truth!]] [[Further calls for Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about, which is why we need a certain period of time. We want to take this time to have security, too. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I hope you are on the road as much as we are, to know that it is, honestly, the least problem for people outside, whether a budget will be decided in October, November or early December, because it is crucial what is in the budget! This is crucial for people, and not so much the question of appointment. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what's going on!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that it is important and right to create a budget to decide on a budget that is in line with the Financial Framework Act on the one hand. As the expenditure brake has long been decided, the savings measures are there. This surprises me at the opposition, because if you listen to the speeches, you could get the impression that everyone is for saving, but of course according to the Floriani principle: You can always be saved with the others, not me! This would have given the opposition parties the opportunity to at least vote in the Financial Framework Act, because we are still in the general discussion. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] We see what can be spent in total, but we do not yet see the concrete measures. It is about this, and I am convinced that the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Government will present a socially balanced, interesting impulse budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12094	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12115	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Amon, of course, the breach of the Constitution – and you know it very well – is what is happening here today! All those who claimed this today are right, because it is also historically unique. Everyone knows that, everybody can see: There has never been such a situation! Not this crisis situation that you are constantly quoting; I am slowly wondering what you would do if the crisis did not exist. They're pushing everything to the crisis. But there has never been a breach of constitution in this House in such a way that this famous ten-week-frist has not been observed until the end of the year, except it was a federal election. Never before, and that makes up the unique thing about history. Even if it were not a breach of the constitution, it would be in the minimum refusal to work and an increase of the taxpayer, colleagues from the ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now I look deeply at the ÖVP, Mr Grillitsch, but even more so at the former Chancellor Schüssel and the former Minister of Finance Molterer. I ask you once what would have been – remember back, hand to heart! – if our government, Schwarz-Blau, had presented a budget in 2001 or 2002 only in mid or early December? - There would have been an earthquake! We would never have trusted that Wolfgang Schüssel would never have allowed that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Now we have a vice chancellor and finance minister who allows this and sells people in this House simply for stupid. We don't like that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is a breach of constitution and a refusal to work, it is also an increase of taxpayers, and it is essentially the fear of the voters. Of course, it's the fear of the voters, only this one is now much, much smarter than you might suspect. Because the Styrian voters and then also the Vienna voters know only through the debate exactly how you want to sell them for stupid. Mr Cap is not here now. He just... [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] There he is! – You spoke of the Reich tax. Yes, I suggest to you once the first rich you can tax: This is the Styrian head of state Voves, who still owes €5 million with his foundation of the Republic of Austria. Please pay your debts, Mr Cap von der SPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Her exorbitant and soon also elected country captain – for he will be after 26. September no longer give, because the voters quite rightly know that they are mocked here, they are sold for stupid – Mr. Voves, as rich people, does not pay his taxes. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This also applies to Mr Schützenhofer: He also bends like Espenlaub before this choice. They just don't want to tell people the truth because there are just elections! You don't want to say that the biggest load addicts in the Second Republic are already slumbering in your drawer. This is actually an insult to Mr Steger, who writes this budget every year, because he has been in the drawer for a long time. We all know that! We all know that – you just don't say it yet – that you, for example, the 12th and 13th. In future, pay will be fully taxed. Tell the people! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: The 12th is already taxed!]] Or that you want to increase VAT. Or that you want to raise the mineral tax. Or that you want to raise the basic tax. Or that you want to stress the overtime more strongly. Or that you want to cut the pensions really, because you don't even allow a pension increase again. That's your program of horrors! That is not what you are saying to people, and therefore you are fleeing from this House in dizziness – yes, Mr President! That is why we clearly show this from the opposition. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Krainer: With the word “lying” I would be careful!]] This is happening against the background of the highest level of unemployment, the highest debt that the EIA, Mr President, has to answer with this Minister of Finance! [[Abg. Krainer: With the word “lying” I would really be careful!]] They are now the debt party number one and also the one with the highest tax burden. But it is not a problem, Mr Pröll, but the holiday has already been booked. I read: Southern Italy, to the Adriatic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The Federal Chancellor: Amalfi coast or apulia, I think it was, then it goes to New York. You all travel quite well and make vacation, we don't need budget! Only what is interesting and what connects all is the political death you all already have. You're sitting up there with a face, you can see that, everybody can follow it. For example, Mr Pröll spoke in a discussion about the “golden bridge over the death valley”, so he deals with the death valley. Minister Berlakovich makes his holiday to America to the Death Valley, so to death. [[Abg. Krainer: This is in California!]] And the bird shoots the woman's minister: She travels to Cornwall and visits wishful cemeteries there. I'm telling you, you've never had that much end! The political end will also come to this government, I am convinced of that. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Whatever touches me is how you defend it. The MEPs, above all the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ, defend this act of anti-parliamentaryism and anti-democracy, namely simply to bypass Parliament. Today, the “standard” writes: “Demorseful Members”. It is surprising that "the representatives of the government parties are uncontroversial about this demise. They apparently gave their self-esteem to the wardrobe of their clubs.” I quote: “They are the leaders of the coalition, which are necessarily all good for them by chancellors and vice chancellors.” It's the same thing. You from Black and you from Red are “handsman” of this government and no more Members representing the people here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the top there is a president of the National Council who, in the last few weeks and months, has placed an eierthance that has suffered from a political sluggish trauma, as I have never seen before; who says a few months ago, the plan has to be observed; who sits in a “press hour” and says, in October, the budget speech has to take place; which changes her opinion every week; and today – I see it on the speaker list – does not even have the mumm and it is worth getting here and finally defend Parliament and democracy as Parliament President against the arrogance of this government. In fact, she would have the obligation to make herself here as President of Parliament and to say: That's not it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why we say: If not, ladies and gentlemen! I say to you, this Bureau – and I also mean the black President, who from above always likes to play the high school master, but also here finds no word to make it clear that the Parliamentary Roadmap is to be observed – this Bureau is also very, very strange in its conduct and in the interplay between government and opposition and, above all, between government and Parliament. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] At least we won't let that happen. We will do everything we can to ensure that in the coming summer – Klubobmann Bucher has announced this – with special sessions, with real parliamentaryism, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, of which you do not want to know anything more, even though you have been sitting in the House for more than 40 years, you do not want to know anything more about it, we will do everything we can to ensure that real parliamentarianism, the people's representation, returns here to the House. The BZÖ will take care of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12283	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12306	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I can give you two APA reports from 2. Read More: "Holding Pröll's speech on 9 October, Pröll gave his speech. December, are only around three weeks for the whole process by the end of the year. As Parliament implements this, it remains to the House, says Prölls Spokesperson. "We see ourselves in a position until 9. to present a budget.’; And the second: “The overarching opposition of the blockers is not supposed to occur now,” announced ÖVP General Secretary Fritz Kaltenegger. If then Mr. Klubobmann's head says today: This says a lot about the one who uses such a language, so I really believe it says a lot about how the ÖVP thinks about how superior some of you are and how arrogant you are to us when you call us “absolute opposition”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr. President Neugebauer, your “humbold” – “Man becomes man through language” – I ask you, give the Vice-Chancellor and his staff so that he too knows when man becomes a human being! [[Abg. Rädler: He already knows!]] If it's planned that we'll be on the 22nd. In December the budget will be presented, I wonder where the President-in-Office of the Council will remain the chief guardian of the Constitution if he takes note of it without any comment. However, I also wonder why the government is too weak to tell the public the truth, to inform and inform citizens when, as Mr Amon says, what is in the budget matters. That should be presented to the public. If you compare the 2010 budget with the 2011 budget, dear colleague Cap, I really think: If you do out there show and theatre, then this is your thing; but if you start to believe these things yourself, then it will be serious about the entire opinion of the SPÖ. If as a Carinthian diffuser you never get tired of yelling over Carinthia, drawing over Carinthia, I can calmly say that we have done our homework in Carinthia, decided the budget in the government in good time and set a budget schedule that has been respected and has been better off in the billing process than presented by you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am pleased to be able to tell you that in Carinthia we have a finish of 247 € per head in the invoice. However, if one hears that Lower Austria has a deficit of €375 per head, with a deficit of 600 million, I believe that it would also be your task to criticize and keep in mind the head of state of Lower Austria. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] He also told you yesterday on TV that 90 percent of the debt is in the federal government and that the federal government should take care of the debt. Mr Vice-Kanzler, Minister of Finance, I ask you: Don't make Carinthia bad any more as long as you don't have the debt in the federal government as long as you don't have the courage to tell the citizens the truth about what the budget looks like, how the burden policy will look like! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And, above all, do not call us the ‘super lazy’ opposition politicians, as long as you yourself are not able to present a budget in good time!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12381	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I'm interrupting the meeting for a break until 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12415	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:16:39]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (628b._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Bridging Aid Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (SVÄG 2010) and the Amendment 626/A(E) by Mr Karl Oellinger, colleagues on E-Card for Social Assistance Workers (818 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (677, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Federal Government and the countries in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG via a national demand-oriented minimum guarantee (819 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 12/A by Mr Karl Oellinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (ALVG) (820 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion 1103/A(E) by Mr Carmen Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the preference of parents on the labour market (821) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1134/A(E) by Mr Gerald Grosz, colleagues on the uniform system for improving the health and safety at work of nurses (822d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Stenographical Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on the distribution and performance of justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness’ (III-111/618 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12518	We now come to points 2 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Strache. Fixed speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12546	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With minimum security and transparency, this Federal Government has once again done a abdominal spot, which is to be illuminated more closely. Of course, security measures against poverty make sense, we also support effective poverty reduction, not a question, but we need to make that work well! We are in favour of transparency in transfers, but that really has to concern all areas, and of course it has to be understandable where abuse is taking place. Both goals are, however, clearly missed and not achieved by the present law of God. If one takes the dispute of the two government parties in advance and lights up, then one sees, there is disputed and also junctimized. What happened then? – A brushwork, which is not exactly safe, is not socially fair and does not ensure transparency, as we imagine it to be, but makes abuse possible, even in many areas of abuse! The difference between minimum and low incomes is not very significant, and therefore the incentive to continue to pursue a job even with low incomes is not very large. You just have to highlight that. It cannot then be said that this can be a joy to the citizens, the service providers, the people who work. It's a blow to the face of all the working people in the country, when it's told that today, if you're lazy and don't work, you get almost the same amount, so work is no longer worth it. There you can then switch to minimum security and to do so best on the black market. You then deserve more than you can earn in the normal work process today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's say it quite openly: This model is basically better advised to cash the minimum security and then work black. That's the reality! – Mr Petzner will probably find himself in the circle in a few years if he no longer sits in Parliament. No question, this is quite a model that could also be suitable for him in the future. So one design error follows the other. If you become unemployed in this society, then you only have a right to minimum security if you save – and you have to break down on the tongue – if you have used up your savings if it exceeds €3 720. So you have to rely on your savings. In turn, all those who have worked hard and saved themselves in life come to the handcushion. They must first spend and consume the savings before they are entitled to minimum security at all. All those who have not saved anything from their hard-earned money will be rewarded anyway have given and have not saved. All others will be punished and driven into poverty by this scheme, because the savings must be exhausted before the minimum guarantee is given. In the case of a longer than six months reference to the minimum guarantee, the existing assets shall also be used, which shall be defined as follows: There are exceptions only for a vehicle subject to professional requirements and an apartment serving the urgent needs of residence. - Well, good night! It can then also be secured on a ground-book basis. Well, good night for those who do. That also reminds me a little of Hartz IV. – In that case, you can make a ground-book guarantee. This, of course, punishes all those who have worked out something in their lives. You just have to figure this out. This is not necessarily fair and not necessarily socially fair. Everyone with a permanent residence permit in Austria is entitled to this, so all asylum seekers are also entitled to it. There is almost the impression that the Austrians should work in the future, and some of those who migrate to the social system should then live by the minimum guarantee. The package you decide here today conveys almost this impression. Some jobs, where you earn less, will lose appreciation due to this minimum assurance. This also applies, for example, to half-day workers who are of course no longer appreciated. You should think about it. What does it make sense to work as a half day force? Many want that, many want to work only half a day. But which Does that make sense then? What kind of incentive is there to go to work half a day instead of getting the minimum guarantee? The oddscracker Ewald Stadler is also back in the hall. I'm very glad. So far, the social offices have explained whether a person is able to work or not. Now this task is to take over the AMS. I also wonder if that makes sense. I'm saying no. People who cannot be communicated to the AMS will be sent to the AMS, and so they will have to be sent back to the Social Office. These are completely superfluous ways to go. The placement of jobseekers is the core task of the AMS. The AMS has been tirelessly liberated from its mixed competence, its unclear role between the service organization and the extended arm of the social offices, and now one wants to reunite this somewhere and thus ultimately build red tape. And that's not a sensible process. We are now once again beginning to mix the AMS's tasks with those of social policy, and this at a time of sharp increases in unemployment, i.e. at a time when the AMS has basically got its hands full enough to bring the unemployed back into the work process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our consideration must be to create framework conditions so that people's jobs are safeguarded and that their work also gives them a salary from which to live, so that they do not have to practice three occupations as they do today in order to survive. Does it make sense to transfer these further tasks to the AMS? Is the staff position at the AMS increased in the future to deal with these new tasks? Wouldn't it be more sensible to leave the social offices in their office? - I mean it. They have also explained so far whether or not a person is able to work or not, and one should not have created additional bureaucracy unnecessarily. With regard to the transparency database, it should be noted that citizens' service and transparency are of course to be supported. They are also necessary. We have also been the first In this House, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats put forward proposals for this when we asked for transparency. That's a reasonable idea! For us as a liberal, in the context of the transparency database, it is crucial that, on the basis of a comprehensive collection of the status quo of benefits, promotions and support of those who have In the future, wrong promotions or multiple promotions will be diverted to those who need them. This is not guaranteed and secured here. In addition to the control function, such an institution must also have a control function, because it is a fact that today, unfortunately, not always the most in need, but often the most skilled of our society, who deliberately engage in social abuse, can use the pot for themselves, but those who would need it do not know at all what possibilities they have. Both aspects have not been made socially fair here, as I mean.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12661	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12682	Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is a historic day for Austrian social policy today. A social policy milestone similar to the introduction of social security funds under the Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun in 1993 is now being decided here in the House: the national harmonization of social assistance, the need-oriented minimum security, a project that had to be negotiated very long, very hard and tough. At this point, I would like to thank all negotiators, first and foremost Federal Minister Hundstorfer and his team, for their toughness, endurance and negotiating skills. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The need-oriented minimum security provides a very close social network for all people affected by poverty. According to total statistics on income and living conditions from 2006, almost 13 percent of people in Austria are at risk of poverty, which is about one million people. Without our transfers, the percentage would be even higher, namely 43 percent. This figure alone shows the importance of the Austrian social state. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A key objective of our federal government is to combat poverty more effectively. We are the only country that today, despite the financial and economic crisis, takes a very important decision, which represents a social policy milestone. Who benefits from the minimum guarantee? – Some 270 000 people will receive them: 90 000 recipients of social assistance and about 15 000 children of compensation recipients, 165 000 social assistance beneficiaries. Of the 165,000 social assistance workers, about 17 000 people are permanently dependent on social assistance. That's a very, very important number! For the rest, this means that social assistance only affects a very, very small part of their lifetime; they eventually find a job again. That is why this number seems quite, very important to me. What are the most important changes? – I said: It is a reform of the social assistance system within the meaning of a last social network for all people in Austria. It means expanding the minimum-security elements in unemployment insurance, increasing the net replacement rate and improving the accounting of partner income. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The minimum guarantee provides a clear financial improvement for single-parents and thus supports most strongly a group affected by poverty, namely single women. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important to me that the need-oriented minimum guarantee is only provided for persons who are entitled to a permanent stay in the country. I would like to say very clearly: According to their population, social assistance providers without Austrian citizenship are under-represented in social assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! That means: It is wrong to equate foreigners with social partners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The need-oriented minimum guarantee is not a basic income, nor an unconditional basic income at all. The person or person wishing to receive the benefit shall be provided that he/she provides his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her labour force. Social assistance providers are cared for by the AMS and must be available to the labour market. In order to enable people who have been excluded from the labour market for a long time to be integrated into the labour market, training and qualification measures are also offered. I can also say that additional staff will be provided to the AMS so that people can also be provided with appropriate qualitative and active assistance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer to one more point made by Mr Klubobmann, and I would like to make a brief comparison: What does it look like to face the demand-oriented minimum security with a share of housing costs with a minimum wage of € 1,000 gross? – This means a monthly income of €744 for demand-oriented minimum security. If I assume the minimum wage of 1 000 € gross and net draw the comparison, that's 849,30 €. So the difference is 105,30 €. If I use the annual sum – you must not forget that there are additional payments or special payments in collective contract wages – the difference is already much greater: It is 2 964 € per year. This means that the minimum guarantee is what it is: It is a compensation for people who cannot get into the work process, but it does not mean that people can simply escape responsibility to go into the work process. Let me make two more comments on health measures, which I believe are important. In the future, the BMS members will also be included in the statutory health insurance – keyword e-card. Those people who are often in a difficult situation due to their precarious situation are also more often threatened by disease. They're all the harder to get into the work process because of the illness. The possibility of increased participation in preventive health measures will be provided. I would like to make two comments in connection with the motion for a resolution on the database of transparency. This instrument is intended to ensure that social benefits, promotions, tax savings and social security benefits are disclosed and transparent in money and in kind. In this context, I already agree that this transparency has always been valid for the workers in this country. There is no doubt that there is a need to rethink in the field of economic promotions and agricultural promotions, which will certainly be in line with this introduction. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say once again that this is really a very important social milestone. It is an important step towards combating poverty. People who are long away from the work process will be reintegrated into the work process, and this group of people will also greatly facilitate access to health services. I thank you very much, a really important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12783	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12804	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to establish the link between budgetary policy and social policy, then to poverty reduction, to the so-called transparency database and to the “roubling” role of the two major parties or alleged major parties in this context. A short return to budgetary policy: It is only one hour since the opposition was directed by a Member of a government group, that they may, if the government fails, present a budget. You can't leave that uncommented! – colleague Amon's not here right now. – I really think that's a shambles to the square. It is a tradition in Austria that Parliament is being starved of, as far as its resources are concerned, the possibilities for Members here. There is not even the capacity to really present a budget here. And then you come here, imagine, talk about it, as if it were as simple as it were, and do so to the television audiences believe, that's what happened. Such a thing is really below every level. That doesn't have to please the opposition. But above all: If we still make proposals, even though we have difficult conditions – for years we have done this, budget concepts, tax concepts et cetera – then it is just the agitation machinery of the ÖVP, especially the Styrian, because Mr Amon comes from there, which then runs around and agitates – against the facts! – which is not done evil again. That's why double hypocrisy! We do not need to let that happen, we will reject it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Weinzinger.]] There are also sufficient examples for this. When we talk about social policy, everyone knows that this also needs to be financed. That's right. This will also apply to the future debate. Now we are dealing with minimum security. But in autumn, after the elections, it will be quite different things, because there will be a lot more cuts in that place than is now decided here. That's as good as clear, as otherwise would I'm sure you'll trust this place. But as I said, My previous speaker from SPÖ can now celebrate and hide what is to come afterwards. We know that needs to be saved, but right, just, intelligent, and you can and must also invest. But that means, and every reasonable person always knew that we also need to talk about how we finance the whole thing, the task of doing the public hands. We were never the ones who spread any tax lies. This has been reserved for you, Secretary of State Lopatka. Tax lie with start-up – that has been specifically called by Mr. Finanzminister, because it was necessary because otherwise the renite government partners would not have been on the path of saving. Just like you're trying to keep this sluggish thing going. This lie, this dizziness, has just been raised to the working principle of the government. If we say that in these areas we can imagine tax increases to do and finance this and that, it is your propaganda machine that claims to be up and down land, then again the housekeeper, the little, the farmer et cetera is hit. These days we can experience it again. I told you. WIFO and IMF propose not to look away from the basic tax, but to introduce half-way international standards. This can be done so that you lower down – the many small house builders, who often pay 30, 40 €, for which large amounts of bureaucracy is used – but go in the top all the more strongly. Mr Grillitsch, you know very well that agriculture is treated in its own way with the basic tax B. You do not need to camp around, which is not all bad. But that's it: They're hiding everything. We make proposals, and then you say the opposition should suggest something. That's not all right anymore! Be honest once and turn away from the principle of lies! It's never too late to reverse. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We see this in Upper Austria, we see it in Graz: The ÖVP is also politically resocializable. That works very well, and then you can talk about reasonable things again. However, one thing will not go: that you want to continue your fridge policy everywhere, and that nobody knocks on your fingers. We'll take it over, so you can rely on it, even if you're still telling shame. Do this away, it won't help you any more! For minimum security: Actually, I would like to say something about poverty reduction. It is already an expression of the fact that the primary income distribution – i.e. before taxes at all – is really a major problem. In the last 15 years, the lower 10 percent of the income earners have actually experienced real wage losses, not too scarce. It is now not the time to focus on where all this comes from – through competition on the labour market et cetera. We also have the problem that the regular minimum wages are so low. This is also the reason for the fact that the discrepancy to what is now the minimum guarantee is not too high. The question is: What is the solution to the problem? You can't go here and hack around on those who are supposed to get a real mini-security now with 744 € per month, but you have to think about how we can intervene so that the distribution of wages can be arranged more fairly. That must be the task of politics as well as it can. Everything doesn't work anyway. We don't want to give in to an illusion. To the transparency database: Ladies and gentlemen, that was your junkim, you regularly junctimize as you see again. It is not even clear what authority is getting insight into and how this is being coordinated. Yes, that can be a good thing if at least the different funding stations know to each other who does what. [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's what we're doing!]] But we don't trust you. There is the problem in all the federal states, and it will not be abolished at all. A case like Herbertstein, promoted by four or five different bodies, without knowing each other, would be as possible today, because they do not even share it. You have not dealt with this in this motion for a resolution which is here today. That's why we're going to reject him. He leaves everything open, and above all he leaves the biggest problem that exists in the area of transparency. This is that citizens should not know who is actually financing the political parties in the country. They say that there are no public subsidies when it comes to private donations. But the main problem of transparency in this country is: No one is allowed to know which banks support the ÖVP, which companies are going to put their money on. One cannot know how the SPÖ Foundation is in Styria, why the hospitals in the Styria are always costing more than 5 percent, and why advertising agencies in contact with the hospital judges are always doing the campaigns for the SPÖ. All of this is kept in secret. They refuse the most important question of transparency in democracy – the only country in Europe –: Who even spends for you? People should know. This would be the great start of transparency provisions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Apologize the expression and the comparison, but he really has his permission: The fish starts to smell at the head! If you don't want to be looked into the books, if you take money from banks yourself, then, gentlemen of the ÖVP, don't follow the social assistance recipients!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12866	Mr Kogler, you are now a long-standing Member of Parliament and know that the accusation of the lie from the speaker's mouth is a pompous term. That is why I am giving you a call for order in the use of the previous practice for the multiple accusation of the lie against the government groups and also against the government. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What?! Come on, please!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was a quote from the Minister of Finance!]] The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 8 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12917	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Social is to help people who want to help themselves but cannot, and is not social, to help people who can help themselves but do not want to. In this respect, the need-oriented minimum assurance and a request for the introduction of the transparency database will be decided today. This combination is a condition for us from the ÖVP. Yes, it took a little longer, but the principle of quality before pace – we have already heard this today at the budget – must also apply to social legislation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] We confess to social security. We want to help those people who find no work and have no wealth. Of course, minimum security is linked to the need, and this must also be demonstrated. What is this much debated need-oriented minimum guarantee? – In essence, it constitutes a harmonisation of social assistance in the federal states. We create uniform minimum standards throughout Austria with this law and thus also offer greater legal certainty. We create the e-card for all, thus allowing the inclusion of health insurance. In addition, a better link between the AMS and the labour market is given, and workability and willingness to work are clearly reviewed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the goal of the need-oriented minimum security is to integrate people into the labour market as soon as possible – not hammock, but a springboard back into the working world. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Csörgits.]] What is the minimum level of security? What is the starting amount? – It is €744, which is the net compensation rate. There is a base amount of €558, which is 75 percent of it. The remaining 186 € are the housing cost, which is lost, for example, if you live with your parents or a partner or have an apartment. I would like to give the people three examples of what is decided today by means of minimum security. When it comes to an incompetent, isolated person and there is no claim to a share of living costs, this person receives €558 – that is the minimum guarantee. A single-parent, 20 hours part-time work, net income 500 € and maintenance by the father 200 € – this is taken into account and deducted in total – is entitled to 312 €, without a housing share to 59 €. In the media, a four-member family is often referred to as an example: two children, the father receives 800 € unemployment benefit, the mother has no income. The family is entitled to 584 €, without a share of living costs to 238 €. Ladies and gentlemen, in the negotiations, it was very important to us from the EIA that there was a clear difference to an income, additional income and support, and a willingness to work must be given. Under these conditions, we can also give our assent to this minimum guarantee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this means more expenditure – around €160 million more for the federal government, for countries up to €50 million – and it is an additional distribution of tax funds. Therefore, as the Austrian People's Party, we also demand more transparency towards the service providers – those people who fill the tax pots. I call you a number that is already remarkable: 10 percent of payroll and income taxpayers, which are almost 500 000 people in Austria, account for 50 percent of total wage and income tax revenue. That's about €11 billion. We are committed to these people. These are the working people in this country who pay taxes that fill the tax pots so that we can enable social and transfer services. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we insist on the introduction of a transparency database. We want all these benefits – social benefits, transfers, promotions, tax savings, unemployment benefit, sickness benefit to the Free Kindergarten – to be listed and made transparent. For whom, ladies and gentlemen? – for the referee, for the referee, for the citizen, for the citizen himself and for the paying agencies. We do not want to create a glass human being, and therefore it will not be a envy account, because only these two parties, if you can say so, have access to or access to this transparency database. The transparency database is intended to avoid abuse and to reduce double-tracks, especially between the federal, state and local authorities, such as in the case of heating aid. Let us remember 2008: There have been three-fold disbursements – from the federal government, from the countries and also from a number of communities. This should be reduced and reduced, as it cannot lead to double-tracks in this area. Furthermore, greater awareness is to be created in the population. What benefits, what subsidies do we actually receive from public authorities, from the state? It worked very well when the certificate of benefits was introduced at the local health insurance company a few years ago, and the population has received it very positive that you will finally receive a list of the benefits you refer to in this area. We also want to implement this with the transparency database. We want to bring a little light into the jungle we have in Austria without any doubt. There are subsidies and benefits from the federal government, the countries and the municipalities. This should be made transparent and listed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is also in the sense of the population. I think people have a right to know. If we are always talking about making everything transparent, why not do it? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why not finance the party?- Oh, my God!]] There is no difference between those people who work in the working world, whether they are workers or employees, whether they are self-employed, whether they are public grants or promotions – everything should be made transparent and listed. Overall, this is a coherent combination – a yes to social security for those who need and need help, and on the other hand more transparency, public service disclosure and grants. With this we can prove to those people who fill the tax pots with fug and justice where the money comes at the end of the day. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you to comply with the roadmap relating to the transparency database mentioned in the motion for a resolution, namely that until 1. The draft review is available until 19 September. On October 1, a government proposal will be introduced into the House so that we can get the law by 1 October. January 2011 can be decided and it can enter into force at the end of the day. It is also a pass on it – that was the last time in the discussion – that the federal states are involved. Of course, the federal states should and must provide the data. Finally, I also believe that a good compromise has been reached by the end of the year. January 2012 will ensure that all federal states will have to provide and submit their data. Ladies and gentlemen, yes to distribution justice, but also to performance and transparency. That's what the ÖVP stands for.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e12989	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Bucher. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13011	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now you have to sort things out a little bit, because my previous speaker, Mr Wöginger, has confused a lot. [[Call the ÖVP:Hey! Sure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But it'll still be. You still have time. You're still a young MP, and you're not expected to know about everything. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, basically this was an exchange business: The ÖVP was unhappy with the minimum guarantee and wanted to have the transparency database in return. The transparency database will not be decided today. There is a motion for a resolution in which there is nothing in it except that one may think of creating a database of transparency on the part of the Federal Government and presenting a bill to the National Council. That's the only thing that happens. But the essential things – in order to speak to the transparency database – are returned to the table. When it comes to revealing the donations to the party, you are again on the way of withdrawal, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. There's nothing to hear from you because you obviously have a lot to hide and the public want to hide how much you actually get from party expenses from any donor in Austria. We ask you – if transparency, then for everyone. If everyone on the Internet has to disclose their income, then the parties and then also the ÖVP so that we know what we have to do with it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a need-oriented minimum guarantee, but an unconditional basic income. It's a basic income we promise people. I really have to wonder about the attitude of the ÖVP, which is always talking about performance orientation, which is that we need to promote more performance in our country because otherwise the competitiveness of Austria suffers and we are no longer competitive enough – which is of course true. But there you have to stay strict and honest, there you have to stay on your way and keep it. You must not give up your voice for a minimum assurance which promises people things that we do not believe and that will not be able to finance in the future. We are not the land where the fried pigeons fly to the mouth. The promise you make is fatal. The signal you're setting is fatal. All EU citizens, including third-country nationals, will be able to use this minimum guarantee in the future – that is, €744 for non-life. We don't want that from BZÖ. We do not want this to happen because it is anti-performance and contradicts the idea of performance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the departure from the state of service. This is hammock socialism pure. We've had that before. 20 years ago, this system was carried to graves. By the way, the GDR had established this in the Constitution – the right to income, the right to education, the right to accommodation and housing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens, where this has led, we see that. I can give you the examples of what it's all about: A single person or a single person who uses the minimum insurance in Austria, because she or he has no work, receives 744 € net per month. [[Abg. May. Honey: That doesn't have to be!]] Look at someone who receives a minimum wage – those are supermarket employees sitting at the cash register, which we always meet – in the future. Look You see these people who work 40 hours a week. You get 818 € net. The minimum guarantee difference is € 74. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a naughtiness! 74 €!]] That means 40 hours of work per week are worth 74 € per month. You have to keep that in mind. This is not all, however, because those who receive the minimum guarantee are exempt from the ORF fees. You don't pay a prescription fee. They receive housing aid and, of course, do not have to bear travel costs to drive to work. Under the rule are all those who work 40 hours a week. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is the reality, and that is why this measure leads straight to the black economy. [[Abg. Nice pass: Shame!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does that mean, “Sorry! ”]] This is an example of black-and-white work, and this cannot be in the interest of a government that should be interested in taking taxes and guaranteeing a welfare state. You will carry this welfare state to the grave with such measures, because you are actually forbidding people to perform, and young people signal that they have nothing to work in this republic, because the state basically receives it until retirement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Do you know what this single parent has to expect a pension? - Zero! He can say: I take the 744 €, by the way I do blackwork and earn 1 000 €, so I have 1 744 € per month, of which I can live beautifully. Only when he is 50 years old will he wake up and calculate his pension rights for the first time. He won't get insurance periods together, and then he'll get there badly. [[Abg. Schönpass: You have no idea!]] They bear the responsibility for many people being led astray in this country and getting into the pension trap. This is not responsible for a federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A family with three children receives 1 798 € net per month via the minimum guarantee. Two persons in employment – fully employed and part-time – receive €1 800 net. So both of them, he's 40 hours, they're 20 hours a week, they're going to do a job and get 1 800 €. The difference between the two families is €2. 2 €! Jobs You're going to have to do this. One family works 60 hours a week, the other family doesn't work anything – difference: 2 €. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, where is the proportionality? Where is your sense of responsibility to those who want to perform in our country – performance from which we all live, performance that we need so that we can achieve a budget? You're doing the exact opposite. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, if you continue in this way, this leads straight to the boycott. Not only that, but Austria will fall back on the performance of the State and what will result in competitiveness. That's a much worse signal. That is the worst service you can provide to the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13174	Mr Hundstorfer, Federal Minister, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I would remind you of the agreement and add 9 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13195	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of I'm allowed to teach a little history for a while. [[Abg. Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] The idea of this law, namely to harmonise the minimum guarantee, was born many years ago. There was a federal country that implemented this idea many years ago, namely the Federal State of Carinthia. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But quite different!]] Yes, Mr Westenthaler, quite differently, first of all, about a number of people higher than today's minimum security, and secondly, about corner houses that are more foreign-friendly than we are now implementing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Yes, quite different!]] Don't forget your story! Even if it is embarrassing to you, do not forget your story! - That's one point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Carinthia has always rejected this! Haider always refused what you wanted to do to him!]] What are we actually doing? – We unify today’s social assistance. That is really what we decide today. We unite all social assistance guidelines in Austria. Some federal states have already taken this decision, some federal states are in the pipeline and make it retroactive. The Article-15a agreement has already been signed in all the federal states, partly even decided – no matter what party there is in the government, no matter what coalition they are in, and even unanimously in some federal states. What is it really about? – It’s about knitting a social net in this country, from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler, which has nothing to do with Hartz IV, that’s your main problem – a social network that’s more abuse-proof than today’s, which, for example, is more misuse-proof than today’s social assistance laws. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A social network of dependence! Your own!]] Whatever we do is focus the labour market. The labour market is focused on, for example, because the AMS already knows 150 000 of the 160 000 social assistance beneficiaries today, but the rest are not yet available or are not yet available for a long time. It is not about, Mr Strache, that the AMS is now testing the ability to work – even here, please, I can only invite you, read the laws as they are! – but the social assistance authorities check whether someone is able to work or not. At the moment when the medical opinion gives employment, which is caused by the Social Assistance Authority and by no one else, at the moment: Return to the AMS! [[Abg. Kickl: Pingpong!]] No pingpong! That's exactly what's going on. The AMS recognizes this opinion, and then the mediation begins. In reality, that is the crucial difference. It's not hammock, it's not a jobless basic income. [[Abg. Bucher: Sure!]] After its division today's social assistance in Carinthia would then also be an unemployed basic income, but it is not. [[Abg. Bucher: You are advertising for the unemployed!]] But not at all! You have no idea at all, Mr Klubobmann, what you are saying. Forgive me for these hard words! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Today, for example, a permanent social assistance worker must not be available to the labour market, today a permanent social assistance worker cannot be punished, and today a permanent social assistance beneficiary cannot be reduced. This is not possible today, even in your Carinthian “superlaw”. [[Abg. Booker: That's what I'm looking at!]] It is simply a question of making people accountable to work as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us not spread the same false reports again and again. In reality, the uniformity means 558 € basic amount. This is the new Social Assistance Guide, the rest is living, and is not to be paid for this living, then there is only the 558 €. Read the Lower Austrian Social Assistance Act – already reviewed – read the Vienna Social Assistance Act – already passed – read the Salzburg Social Assistance Act – it has been passed yesterday or today. In Carinthia there is exactly the same thing inside, and it will be decided there in November. For example, the Kärntner government decided yesterday, in all unanimity, to accede to the Aritkel-15a agreement and, of course, to adapt the corresponding national law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is another head of state!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Jörg Haider would never have done that!]] In reality, it is about spreading sand into the eyes of people: Work no longer pays off? – The exact opposite is the case, because the 558 € is twelve times. If you take the worst CV we have in this country, or one of the worst CVs, then the difference to a 14-time payout at a 40-hour week is still 45 percent. That's the reality! [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We're talking about net amounts!]] That there are, of course, people who work part-time in part-time employment – yes, clearly, no question, and there are small incomes, like today! That's not what's changed. Whether paid enough for part-time jobs or not is another chapter. The fact is that the minimum guarantee is paid 12 times, but all payments are paid fourteen times. What do we decide today? . We increase emergency aid, we reorganise the billing of partner income, we adjust the amounts of children, we lead the e-card for the permanent social assistance beneficiaries – these are 17 000 people – and we manage for the first time to do something for which many people have made preparations for many years, for which many people have used their know-how, from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That doesn't mean anything!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It is not unified!]] That is unified, that is unified, and that is with 1. In September of this year it was effective. I thank all those who have participated, I thank all those who have worked with a lot of know-how, and I also thank all the country days that have decided to do so. The fact that we have said a clear yes to the transparency database is, I believe, also quite clear, because it is a question of making what state services are transparent – transparent for the individual, transparent in anonymized form for all of us, that is, for politics when it comes to making decisions. This is not about a sniff account, it is not about a envy account, but what we now have on the table is a comprehensive overview of what state benefits are to the individual. I really want to ask you all together: Let's read the minimum security as it is! Let's try, not scratchy. No, we are trying to say yes, in the interests of the people concerned in this country. We have just 17 000 people in this country who are the only source of social assistance. These 17 000 people must also be assured in the future, and if in the future other people come to make a decent life possible for them too. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13433	The next speaker was Mr Kickl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13454	Mr President. Federal Minister! Nor does it get any better if you try to make history falsification and take up models that are quite different now, so to speak. In connection with this minimum guarantee, I find you something like a political division of personality. On the one hand, former trade union president Hundstorfer, who has at least somehow taken advantage of the interests of the working population – that is, the people who have their earn by working – represent – and then there is the new Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who does something different: He is trying to put a blow on the face with the installation of a minimum security, just those people he used to represent. – From our point of view, this minimum guarantee, with all the commitment to poverty reduction, is just a blow to the face of the working population. It's just absurd what you're doing in part! They produce new injustice under the claim to create a system that produces more justice. There have already been some examples, and I will bring you others. They produce new injustice under the claim to make justice. You'll know the old proverb – that's what happened to me when I heard you talk about minimum security again today –: The opposite of good is well meant! – This is quite true here, if you look at what you and your predecessors have now suffocated and doubled in connection with the minimum guarantee over many years – for it was nothing else. The highlight of this pussy, this year-long pussy, was then, as it were, this last-minute cow trade, which took place there: I give you the minimum guarantee, and you give me the transparency database – actually wrong: you give me a few pieces, a few debris of a so-called transparency database, just so that you can basically treat your party-political profile neurosis together. In this matter, you have done nothing positive at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary, this piece of work related to the transparency database is highly suspicious. It has already been mentioned that it is actually a shame not to take in party funding under the offer of any obvious arguments. That's what you've packed out again, that this shouldn't be transparent. So a database of transparency where the operators of this project commit themselves to transparency when it comes to party funding – well, good night! I believe that the Austrian population would have had the claim that you are the very first to have a financial-political nudist scanning done over it and to go ahead with a good example before leaving the pants in the populace. This would once be a decent policy, ladies and gentlemen, to which you cannot get through. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say to you that the opposite of good is well meant because, with this minimum assurance, you are putting an incentive in the wrong direction from our point of view. I believe that the best incentive if you want to fight poverty and if you want to get people into employment is still that you offer people a job, that you create jobs that also deserve this name – not jobs or anything else, as you call it more and more lately – and that you can define by the activity you are doing there, you also have a corresponding outcome for yourself and for your family. This is the appropriate incentive to combat poverty, and it is the one hundred times more effective incentive to go into employment than any senseless course and any depressing events related to the AMS, as they are piled up. The AMS is not a one-stop shop, and also the social office is not a one-stop shop, but that is Ping Pong, which we are now experiencing: from A to B, from B to A, shared responsibility instead of a responsibility. However, this is still a spindle and an essential function in your entire design of minimum protection. That would have to give you some thought if you read surveys showing that those who are cared for by the AMS are, for the most part, completely dissatisfied with what they are experiencing there. You would have to think if high-ranking representatives of the AMS warned you that you are doing a manslayer, and it would have to give you a thought – I only brought you a current case – if you say that the AMS will ensure that people get into employment, and then you will see that this happens as follows: AMS: Recent example – heart disease as a bodyguard. [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height.]] So that's funny, too. I quote: “Robert L. (Name changed), Vienna and learned tile army. After many years of joblessness, his AMS supervisor had a dazzling idea: Robert L. could be bodyguard. It's just stupid that the 55-year-old can't even kneel after heart attack and back problems." So that's this placement into the work you're saying, the work preparation will get into the jobs there. – The opposite is the case because your control mechanisms actually do not change anything about the current state. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] They create an incentive in the wrong direction, and I warn you, in the context of the forthcoming opening of the labour market in the East, to do so, as after three months of transition, full access to the Austrian labour market and thus also to minimum security is given.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13554	Mr Herzegovina came next to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13575	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating our Minister of Social Affairs, Rudolf Hundstorfer, on the project 'Minimum Assurance'. It is a social policy milestone, which can be measured in a historical dimension, also finds international attention, and the Austrian population is already convinced of the sense of this measure to more than two thirds. [[Abg. Grosz: A stumbling stone! Not milestone, but stumbling stone!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is the right answer, ladies and gentlemen, to the unblemished, shameless and really unfair criticism of the opposition. [[Abg. Grosz: Stupperstein!]] [[Further calls to representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] I would now like to turn to the issue of transparency. Who was the pulser, anyway? – No, Mr. Finanzminister Josef Pröll was not, because the SPÖ had already tried in 2004 in a “small investigation committee” to make agricultural funding transparent. We came across a black and blue wall of silence at the time. Meanwhile, Mr Grillitsch, there is a development in the EU, and some things are transparent. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Minister of Finance Pröll took up the issue last October, but one-sided: only the social transfers, only the families, the commuters, the needy. Yes, and what about the assets, the corporations, the big property owners, the big subsidies recipients? [[Abg. Grosz: With the foundations!]] This would not have been the case for the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with three areas and not just one on one side. Firstly, we are concerned with agriculture, not only with the co-financing of the EU, but also with what the Federal Government and the countries themselves are in favour of promoting – agriculture, the environment, premiums of all kinds – and we will also have to talk about reforming the values of unity. It is time for justice, for distribution justice, also in agriculture. The big ones have too much, the little ones have too little. I am convinced that the transparency database will help us to achieve this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] As far as economic promotions are concerned, there is also a need for efficiency and sparing. What about double promotions? What about take-away effects? And here, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the country's administrative reform. That's where state captain Pröll can prove himself. There he can show competence, because to point out only to the SPÖ sites in the federal government, that will be too little for the chairman of the national conference. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Thirdly, it is an optimal social system in Austria, and we will continue to see that we can make the fight against poverty as best we can. Of course – I am with some opposition speakers – transparency extends to parties as well. On the one hand, there is the legal, the state support – I believe it is indisputable that it is essential to ensure the independence of politics – i.e. promotions received by political parties, political academies, political groups, and of course these legal state subsidies are included in the transparency database. But what about the private party donations? – They are currently only reported to the Court of Auditors and the data are kept under lock. This is, of course, not portable, and this is why, in future, there will be transparency for private party donations from €7 000 – in Germany, by the way, the limit is €10 000, in the UK, €5 500 – because the population has a right to know whether a bank, a group, an entrepreneur is donating and whether it is linked with expectations for politics. In the future, it will be clear on Parliament's homepage and on the Court of Auditors' homepage who will give a private donation to a party – this or that. This is regulated by the Party Act, and if the international evaluation takes place at the beginning of 2011, we will have done our homework in Austria. But there is also a criminal part – abuse of office and infidelity – and it is located in the blue-orange-blue area. We all remember Scheuchs Part of the game: You get citizenship, you get something in the party register. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Or if, for example, ladies and gentlemen, opinions are drawn up, where two-digit million amounts are agreed, and then this is 44 sentences. So you don't need a lot of imagination to suspect that there's money going into dark channels. The penalties must also be tightened. This area, of course, is very damaging to politics. All in all, more transparency is needed, ladies and gentlemen. This is good for the development of democracy, for political culture in our country and should ultimately be in the common interest of the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13702	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13730	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Herzegovina, I would now like to reject what you have pushed the opposition into the shoes as a whole, that is, unblemished criticism, for the Greens. I do believe that you can or should not yet be able to differentiate between what the Greens say and what BZÖ and FPÖ – and you are right – have not yet understood. The point is, there has already been a lot of praises, Mr Federal Minister: The minimum security is really a mini mini security – unfortunately! – if they are measured by expectations and also by the needs. Yes, it is right, the minimum guarantee provides that there is also an e-card for minimum security providers. That's good. That's right. Yes, there are also some other small improvements. The rule is largely abolished. There are improvements in emergency aid – and I don't want to take this at all – which for an emergency relief worker – it is usually the women who are concerned – that she receives €20 or €30 per month. FPÖ and BZÖ are on the rise. Do you know what it's all about? – More than 20 to 30 € emergency aid per month! That's what we decide today, and you say: No, that's terrible and immense, and it's all going to be lost. - You say so. Do you know how high the average emergency aid in Austria is for a woman? - 500 € per month. And this 500 € you only get if you have no income – nothing, never. Of course, a woman who receives emergency aid – 500 € – can now apply for social assistance. But this works – if at all – only in Vienna quite a bit. There is then supplementary social assistance. It does not work in all the other eight federal states. The poverty conference has demonstrated why, and we all know the reasons. You should actually know them, but you're making yourself up and saying: People get too much for not working. Then Mr. Kickl comes out, tells the case of Robert M., who is divided by the AMS, a senseless course, or an absurd work, because he cannot do it. So what? What's going to happen to Robert M.? – In the view of the FPÖ – I have heard – it must not in any case receive a minimum guarantee. He'll thank you! For not accepting this job, shall he not receive anything, shall his existence be put to nothing? Unfortunately, the minimum security that we now decide to do includes a few moments – Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has made it clear in all drama – which we believe – in the opinion of the Greens – is far too much repression. There was no discussion of the conditions for minimum security, but they would be necessary. For example, a minimum guarantee should of course be accompanied by a minimum wage, which also deserves this name. And that certainly can't be the 1,000 € gross that still exists for some – and for some there are still less than 1,000 € gross for full-time work. Yes, let's talk about what's needed! [[Abg. Bucher: Do you want to... salary negotiations...?]] But where are you with your requests? Where are you with your ideas? – Even if there is this 1 300 €, of which we assume they are necessary: Skill You think anyone should live from 300 or 400 € per month? Is that what you want? You know what I got here? [[The speaker points to the covered plate standing in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] It's not exciting. This is what remains, according to the calculations available in Austria, with a ration of three meals per day, per meal. [[The speaker lifts the cover from the plate and shows a packed sausage cream.]] This is the equivalent for a sausage semimel: 1,44 €. That's what you can convert according to the calculations – and that's to a month, it's 130 to 140 € – someone to live, to eat – just to eat! There are no other cost of living that a man or a woman has. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] 1,44 € – and that's why you're fighting! You're saying that's too much, we don't afford that to the people? [[Abg. Bucher: No, we don't say that!]] – Of course you say that, and we certainly do not participate. Mr Federal Minister, this ratio is for you, so that you can take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13822	The next speaker was Mr Grillitsch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e13850	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has developed into a great place of life and business in recent years, thanks to a good policy. Today, Austria – and we can say this with pride – is the fourth-richest country in the EU, but the economic crisis has not stopped before us either, forcing us to find and discuss solutions for certain issues openly, honestly and comprehensiblely for the people. [[Call the BZÖ: Especially honest!]] I think we need to discuss demographic development in this country, how we can keep people in employment so that people have work and income. These are the consequences of this economic and financial crisis, for which people expect solutions from us, ladies and gentlemen. We will not do this with concepts from the past and highly emotionalized political discussions. This will not solve the problems. I expect this Parliament to address matters with a spirit of enterprise, with innovativeness and also with reliability for people. This is in demand in a time like the present. That is why I am glad that we have the opportunity today to discuss distribution and performance justice as well, and that it was Josef Pröll, who was born on 14 May. Last October presented a transfer account. We know that people also want to have this comprehensibleness, this transparency of public services and tax services. That is why I think it is very interesting to consider the wage tax statistics of 26. See April 2010. Who pays what? Who pays how much? The lower income, ladies and gentlemen, accounts for just over 10 per cent of the tax and tax revenue, but receives over 43 per cent of all public transfers. The average income third pays 28 percent of the taxes and receives 31 percent of the state benefits. The top three of the income is 62 per cent of the tax burden and only 25 per cent of the total public benefits, Mrs Colleague. [[Call at SPÖ:... Social state... Transfer services included? We're not alms state, are we?]] I also note here that more than 2 million Austrians bear the burden of 6.3 million Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is a country of transfer, and it is therefore important to show this. In We are compared with 36.6% of the household income above the OECD average, which is 22 percent. There is a collection of countless social benefits – in the federal government, in the country, in the municipalities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] That is why Josef Pröll's path towards a transparency database is really right, I think, because we also decide on minimum security today – and we say yes. [[Abg. Oils: Say one!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We say yes, Mrs Colleague, although there is the reliability and guarantee that this database of transparency will come, Minister of Social Affairs. That's what we expect from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We expect this to happen in autumn, because we owe it to the people who are willing to work and who are willing to do so, so that we can also prevent social abuse in this country. [[Call at the BZÖ: Also for the Raiffeisenverband?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: Give peace!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Herb, if you have addressed agriculture here today, you probably have forgotten that we have disclosed our performance payments one and a half years before the EU comes. [[Call to the SPÖ:EU funding...!]] I'm telling you quite honestly: With the farmers every euro is earned, because the benefits of farmers are just right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We don't have anything to hide there either. We have disclosed this, and this is accessible to everyone and to every woman on the Internet. [[Abg. Oils: With the sheep? At the...?]] I'm surprised, colleague Herbs, that you have the courage to talk about transparency here. What about transparency in the Styrian SPÖ, in the foundation in which, thanks to Mr. Voves, there are €10 million tax debts, dear colleague Herb? – Where are these €10 million? I would have preferred not to address this issue. Mr Voves has gone out to find rich people, and has actually found himself in the foundation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Haha!]] The Steirers will give it to you on the 26th. Thank you, for what does someone in this country say: Just keep going, just like that! That in the five years under Voves there has not been any major plant establishment in our federal state? This is really a shame for the Styria and for this country. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] We didn't deserve such a national captain.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14057	Mr Grosz is speaking as the next speaker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14079	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Grillitsch, my colleague herbs, now you're running, please nice, a little bit back in! [[Exhausted cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Two parties that have been doing nothing else in the Styria for five years but biting each other into the goggles, about the Styria, about our southern federal state, only bad things to hinder each other projects, only to make party policies at the expense of the citizens, to ruin this country and to bring my generation's future opportunities into the abyss, like your Mr. Schützhofer and their Mr. Voves, that's too much! [[Abg. Grillisch: That's what you believe!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, I do not allow this pult to continue the hypocrisy of the Styrian election campaign. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As we are talking about minimum security: I find the case of an 89-year-old lady, a Grazer who receives a compensation allowance, including the compensation allowance of €783,99 per month, since her 17. A woman who started working as a tailor in the teaching period of her life in 1921 and was born in 1921, gets 783,99 € compensation allowance in the event of bad light – I am talking about my grandmother. My grandmother is following this discussion on television today, like many other pensioners, including many farmers who do not have an average of €1,000 monthly income – and therefore I do not understand your consent – or many women and half-day workers who have to live with €600 net per month – with child, perhaps after divorce, under precarious social conditions. They all have a discussion today about how this minimum security of €744 with the votes of the government parties and probably also the FPK – Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer will rightfully give me that these Carinthian blue comrades will agree to this – will be decided. Do you know what you're doing to the good people in this country?- Oh, my God! Do you know how you mock people who have worked the time of their lives because they want to give their children and grandchildren a future?- Oh, my God! Do you know what you do to our society, the social state and the young generation, if you decide today to have a minimum guarantee of €744, a jobless income, for people who are open to this social hammock, because there are no more incentives to achieve performance, to engage in society, to be proud of being able to work?- Oh, my God! I already know that this federal government is committed to ruining and regrading every job – including in the Styria, Black and Red – in this Republic. I know what you want. You want to make out of 8 million people hand apples that you can care for and caress, which you give alms, and thus choose exactly what you want from red and black. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I want to create self-determined and powerful citizens in this society – powerful, proud citizens who have work and perform achievements that are proud of this performance – and not their claimants in the population, to whom a little bit of taxes can be taxed, for which they give rest, and they are given a minimum guarantee. This is not solution-oriented. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, to the speeches of Mr. Strache and Mr. Kickl, I would only have three brief questions to you because this is the Olympic discipline of hypocrisy that you supply: Why did you agree to the ORF's minimum guarantee of €160 million while your unknown top candidate for the Styria – in the third row – put “Our money for our people!”? Why vote Your Carinthian FPK friends actually agree to this social insanity, although Mr. Strache, with his intentional speech – studied externally – is pomping against minimum protection here? And the third question is, ladies and gentlemen – comrades, so that you can understand it from the FPÖ: Why are you resisting Greece today in the budget debate and even now, even though your Mr. Strache wanted to buy a dubious Greek investor for your raped and fucking mortgage bank? I don't evaluate it anymore, but answer Please ask these three questions – both me and those electors in Vienna and Styria, who have not been in touch with your stupid posters since they are thin enough. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of foundation, Mr Grillitsch has already said everything, although: Whoever has as much butter on the skull as you both do, should not go at the door with this heat in the summer anyway. You're not after each other for nothing. Why do the least-secured Social Democratic Members not pay a party tax? [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] – crochet, pussy and as they all are called: In addition to the taxes of your foundation, why do they charge the party charges? That's unsocial and it's clear. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14170	Mr Lopatka spoke on a point of view. I recall the agreement of the 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14192	Ladies and gentlemen! I can return your attention to the need-oriented minimum security. We should be careful that if we are the fourth-richest country in Europe – and that is what we are – we do not do at the expense of the poorest policies and do not play out the minimum pensioners against those who need minimum security. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. May. Kogler.]] There are, of course, some of the compensation beneficiaries who have to find their results with very little, but what we are doing here today I consider to be a progress in several ways. On the one hand, as in many other areas, I also lack any understanding of why someone is treated differently from someone in the federal state of B because he lives in the state of A. Austria is not so big that for some reason one can justify these great differences that exist to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can also check that!]] Every step that leads to more harmonisation in the area of social expenditure is a real one – and what we are doing here today is a step in this direction. Second point: After all, for three-quarters of those who need a need-oriented minimum guarantee, this scheme means an improvement, and for the others, the law states that there is a deterioration ban. So, for three quarters of those involved at the bottom of our social pyramid, there is an improvement – sometimes only a small one, but at least an improvement. Justice also has a lot to do with honesty for me if one does not want to get to hypocrisy. Here, of course, honesty also means that we need to be stronger than before, that we are with those – and these are the taxpayers; Member of the Wöginger has already explained this in great detail – and can also clearly demonstrate what is going on in the social field in the field of transfer services. That is why the second step, this link between minimum assurance and transparency, is also a real step for me. It is both corner building blocks that should help us to put a bar on the one hand where help is needed to give them, and on the other hand, on the other hand, social abuse on the other. I say that these € 140 million, which we hold annually by the Federal Government for minimum security, are justified. I very much hope that the countries will succeed until the 1st century. In fact, September will be so far as Austria's implementation will be possible. It was always important for us to make quite clear: The minimum guarantee must not provide incentives to say goodbye to work. The law is designed in such a way that there are clear incentives to resume employment and not to reject it. If there is no work to be done, ladies and gentlemen, it will be so in the future that the money is gone. You have to say that quite clearly. That is why this is a real development. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How is that implemented?]] But I think the twelve-time payout is just as correct, because this difference – the Social Minister Hundstorfer has already mentioned it – must be kept between those who receive their income through work and those who depend on transfers. - And that's what's given. These social benefits are paid 12 times, and we do not think it would have been in the right direction if the minimum guarantee had been paid fourteen times. That is why I say to you: What is decided here today in connection with the transparency database is already a very important step forward, because everyone in our country should be sure that he is at least insured with illness. Mr Oellinger referred to this. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein and Abg. Kickl: We could have done that!]] If we do not achieve this as such a rich state and think it justified, then I cannot understand this argument, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] On the other hand, as has already been said, it is important for both of us: here is the minimum guarantee and on the other hand the clear transparency, which must also be given. That's why I'm saying: We from our group within the Federal Government can give our assent to both areas with good conscience, both minimum safeguards in the form, as they are now taking place, and on the other hand this important step towards a database of transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14285	The next item is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. As a result of the agreement in the President to distribute speaking time fairly to the remaining speakers, I will put the clock at 3 minutes and then open it if you have spoken for 3 minutes 30, so that everyone will speak equally. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14309	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, you said it in the committee, you said it again today: Its objective is to ensure that social assistance is harmonised. First of all, it is not a harmonization, you know, because some federal states are out of control. But that is not at all the problem with this whole minimum guarantee. The problem you raise here is that you now allow an unemployed income. You manage with this need-oriented minimum assurance that you pay out money on the one hand to people who are unwilling to work without having to do something, and on the other hand, to punish those who work. If you say – we have heard this a hundred times today – that is now bound to the willingness to work, I wonder how you want to control it. That's what's already happened. It was already de facto law that the person concerned must be willing to work. It has so far failed to control, and that will be the case in the future. This is a no-na rule that you naturally need to inscribe, but you have remained guilty of how you want to control it and execute it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, this is a blow to the face of all those who work! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a blow to the face of the unemployed!]] This is a blow to the face of those people who work half-day and earn far under the minimum security. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] This is a blow to the face of those – especially women – who work in conditions without a collective contract, which probably earn about 40 hours a week, which someone gets now who does not work and who only puts himself in the social hammock. Then there is another aspect – and you know it very well – that not only those entitled to asylum are affected, but that from next year, when the borders are open, the crowds of Hungary and Slovakia will come here and take advantage of this need-oriented minimum security. Even today, you will find advertisements in the Hungarian daily newspapers, in which it is advertised that Hungarian citizens in Vienna will have a place to live and rent so that they can prove that they have lived here for three months. Then they're full inside in exactly this series. Then people who have never made a handhold here in this state also get this minimum security. And that's an invitation, gentlemen on the government bank! Minister Hundstorfer, this is an invitation to the people from the East to come here and take advantage of our social system. That's exactly it. I'm wondering, How do you want to control this over the borders? How is that supposed to work? Will you then check with the Hungarian colleagues whether someone actually lives here or if he has only one residence here? – That’s all completely unexplained. They make a law without any thought, and those who would really need these benefits are punished. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, if today, for example, a 55-year-old man or woman becomes unemployed, no longer has a chance to get a job, and then perhaps after half a year gets the emergency aid under this minimum security, and which is then left up by the minimum security, it sounds very nice. But the man must never have worked out anything in his entire life, for he has a dwelling, then the state goes in after half a year. That is exactly the injustice in this provision: that those who have worked for a long time and are pushed into this minimum guarantee by an accident, by unemployment, also lose what they have worked out all their lives. Mr Federal Minister, that can't be in your mind! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you agree is completely unclear to me, because people are also being punished for having worked, while those who have not done anything throughout their life have always given up nothing but put themselves in the hammock, actually paying the same amount. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] These can be further obtained from the state, and others are punished for it. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] That is something we absolutely reject. That's the mistake in this law. It's not about fighting poverty, helping people...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14385	Mrs Colleague, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14401	Mr Federal Minister, this law is from the outset simply a wrong law, because it goes in the wrong direction and supports the wrong persons.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14433	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14454	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Faith You really think it's a pleasure for people to work at the Social Office for Social Assistance? Faith You really think it's pleasant to appear in the doctor's coordination with a yellow health certificate and say: I'm receiving social assistance? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Don't you think it's pretty humane, what you're doing here in terms of division, even because of your questions, whether all people are social scrupulous and will benefit from social assistance? Faith You really do? I think that this is a very nice policy for the unemployed and for those who are involved in social assistance. We've heard what social assistance means for a family, and I don't think that makes someone volunteer. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Let us take a look at the minimum security: For over 50 years, this has been a topic in Austria. It was hotly discussed until the 1990s, then blocked by the countries, then the countries have made their own social assistance laws, and then the year 2000 came, as this was no longer a topic in the black and blue government; Minimum security, poverty security – no topic. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: That's not true!]] Social security played a role at the time when pensions were reduced, ambulance charges were introduced and accident pensions were taxed. – That was social security. In 2006 we will find the subject again in the government programme, in the government programme under Chancellor Gusenbauer. I have now found a press release by Mr Bartenstein, the then Minister of Economic Affairs, which, at the time of the announcement of the Government Declaration, stated that he was proud of it because it was not a hammock, but the trampoline in the labour market. – All that we are now saying was already seen by Minister Bartenstein in 2006. Then in 2008 we sent out the draft, he was hotly discussed, a federal has blocked. – Carinthia, I think, has blocked and blocked the blockade until 2009 – so after the sentence: [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Grosz]] It's enough! and after we've got it back in the government program, keep it up. It is thanks to our minister that we are now bringing this law to the rails. If we're already on schedule, we'll stay there: Then came the transfer account Pröll. At the time, transfers such as housing aid, family aid, heating aid, commuting aid and children's allowance should be listed, and anyone was afraid that we would not make the transparency database. I do not know which group it came from, but I think the fear is totally unfounded. [[Abg. Kickl: It was the chief! That's what the chief said!]] Minister Hundstorfer wrote in the press hour of the 18th century. In October, quite clearly, what we see as a database of transparency: not only the services provided to individual households, but also services such as agricultural support, economic support and corporate support. What we still lack is the view of the wealth. But, as I said, we are working on it because I believe that people in Austria should also know where the wealth is. As we know, there are only surveys of the National Bank, while every small household is lit up to the smallest detail. [[Call the FPÖ:And your party? That's where you shut up!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because we have heard so many sayings today: Whoever has nothing to hide does not fear transparency. – That is true, this applies to individual households – unlike you, I do not believe that all Austrians are social blacks – but exactly the same applies to wealth, and we also expect transparency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Abg. Grosz: And the Styrian SPÖ!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14576	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14597	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This government promised not only to us, but to all the people in this country, to do something offensively against poverty and for those affected. They promised that and then for months they broke up in such a way that now, at the end of the day, nothing – or say almost nothing – is left. Just as the project has minimum security today, one has to say that it is simply ruined. – The idea of minimum security has been ruined. With 744 € per month no single person can live, with 1 116 € per month no married couple can live, and with 113 € per month you don't spend a child properly. The Minister knows this, and you all in the hall know this: This minimum guarantee is not a minimum guarantee! You, Minister Hundstorfer, even had to admit publicly this week that you cannot rule out the fact that there are individual families who will have less resources available with this minimum guarantee in autumn than now with social assistance. There are families that will get less with this minimum security than they now have. I think this is just inconceivable, and if you talk about a “milestone” in the fight against poverty, that is really incredible. I wonder how could this happen? How could that happen to you? – I really think it’s your real concern – like Greens – to help people in difficult situations, no matter why they are in this situation, and no matter what they can contribute. Unfortunately, not all the parties in this House see it as such that every person simply deserves a life in dignity. I do not want to go into the Lamento of BZÖ and FPÖ, which I find completely inappropriate. The ÖVP assumes that everyone who refers to minimum security actually does not need it and simply does not want to hack. The ÖVP also believes that everyone who relates to minimum security is a potential social blackmailer. [[Call the ÖVP: Who says that?]] The involvement of the ÖVP does not go very strongly towards poverty reduction, but it goes towards the protection of performance providers. Above all, the ÖVP protects financial sharks. The ÖVP protects corrupt politicians, and above all, the ÖVP protects its party donors – no matter where their money comes from, from arms trafficking, from “Heustreck” investments or from the yield of game casinos. [[Embarrassment at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP “thanks” to us that we still have families who on the 26th of the month do not know how to finance the food for their children for the next day. At least we owe it to the EIA that we will know in the future what inadequate support measures will result in no more money being available for food on the 26th of the month. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, poverty has arrived in the middle of our society. Unfortunately, with this minimum security, we do not continue in the fight against poverty at all. This minimum security is anything but an important step towards poverty reduction. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] We Greens call for a life of dignity for all people, we demand a minimum guarantee, a basic guarantee that really protects against poverty. I'm absolutely convinced: That's not too much to demand!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14697	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14718	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! With the introduction of this minimum guarantee per 1. Today, we will present a resolution on the creation of a transparency database on September 2010 and will therefore decide on the basis of the personal transparency account. This database of transparency, which is not only included in the transfer payments, but also benefits, tax savings, social security benefits in cash and benefits, is a solid basis for performance and for the fairness so often cited today. At the same time, the transparency database shows double- and multiple-tracks in the funding systems between the federal government and countries, which significantly increases the reliability of support. With this we will also create the perspective in the transferdick. This is a first step. The second step must be to make the social system simpler and more effective on the basis of the regained transparency. This is also necessary, because every support euro that misses its goal is a lost euro. Mrs Schatz, we in Austria have one of the highest social quotas in the European Union. This 28 percent – which is almost a third of what is being achieved in Austria – is what we are applying to these social expenditures. [[Abg. May. Treasure: 1 million people live below the poverty limit! 1 million people!]] We also confess in economically difficult times that we offer those people a social network that needs help and support. However, we also clearly ensure that social abuse is curbed and that we have a social cost truth in Austria in the future. It is hoped that this social cost reality will also be possible in the federal states. I strongly hope that SPÖ heads of state will also confess that there can be a fairness and fairness in Austria only with a social cost truth. Only if it succeeds in safeguarding performance justice will we be able to give the Austrians the motivation to reunite themselves into the group of performance providers after the bridge of difficulties, because we need these service providers more than ever, who continue to secure prosperity for our generation and the generation of our children with their own responsibility and duty. I believe that today's decision-making of this transparency database creates social justice and efficiency. I therefore invite all of you to take this new path of transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14757	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14778	A sentence on Carinthia, because it has been mentioned again and again: Yes, Carinthia has resisted this minimum security of the federal government – for many years, as long as there was a Carinthian head of state Jörg Haider, who was still six weeks before his death after a government meeting, namely, on 26 February. August 2008, has clarified that the model of the Carinthian minimum guarantee is better than that planned by the federal government, so there would be no signature by Carinthia under the document of a federal minimum guarantee. That was a head of state with backbone, who knew exactly – and this is true today – that for many Carinthian families, the federal uniform solution, which is praised here, means to get less in the future than now – for many Carinthians less! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why Jörg Haider has prevented this minimum guarantee during his life. I ask if You are already in favour of Carinthia today – Mr Strutz is still talking – and the colleagues from the FPK are also calling on them to accept reason and also to think of the words of Jörg Haider. Mr. Sozialminister Hundstorfer, that is not Hartz IV as it is in Germany, but “Hundstorfer I”, which is decided today; I call it a “lying premium”. It's true, it's not all the same, you have to differentiate. Of course, everything for emergency aid, everything for people in need, for all who deserve it, because our principle is always that all those social benefits they need – but not all those they want! This is a very fine and very important difference. But now we decide on a kind of “liege premium”, of course also for those who do not deserve it, because the door and gate are open to abuse; a berth with which sloths lie on the lazy skin and on the taxpayer’s pocket. – This is also an extension of today’s decision. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A premium also for non-students and objectors. And that's what people who work 160 hours a month and more don't understand when their work is suddenly worth only more than 74 €. 74 € is the difference between the “lying premium” that we decide today, and the fair type of income that people relate to is only more. 74 €, because the minimum wage is not 1 000 €, as Mr Hundstorfer always spreads, but after deduction of the social security contributions 818 € – therefore it is 74 € difference. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Dr Oberhauser.]] This is the shame of social democracy that today, in 2010, fair work is worth only more than €74. This is actually what you should be able to generate from social democracy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, Mrs von der FPÖ is right: Older people who have spent their lives with their small amounts, who may have a little more, maybe 3,000, 4000, 5,000 € on a savings book or any other asset, and who suddenly get into need in an indebted way, because they don't think they can do anything about it and would now also depend on a minimum aid, take away the money! They make you body-owners who become dependent. That's the community! [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] That is why this is also a dependency premium and a little less freedom in society than we want from the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen. That's not going to happen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] By the way, it has not yet been mentioned that third-country nationals, Turkish families who are there for more than five years, of course, suddenly benefit from such a minimum guarantee. I dare to doubt that everything is going to be fair, and I wonder if this family door and gate are not opened for abuse, where we know that it is also committed. In reality, you should be ashamed of this minimum security, because it does not help anyone, but in reality only inhibits performance and is anti-employee. That is why we reject it accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14903	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14924	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Social policy has always been a source of tension for expectations, false hopes, including abuse. With the minimum security or the unemployed basic income, you are now enhancing wrong expectations and speeding up a security that is unfortunately not available to people. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] They create a magnet for social abuse with this law. They are creating a programme to destabilise our society and they are thus creating a programme in which the self-righteous attitude is not promoted by service. Values such as family or the virtue of saving are exchanged by you for punishment of performance will and blackwork. But let's take a closer look at this late-Roman decadence plan: Individuals receive 744 €, couples 1 116 €, so a total of 372 € less than if they were living alone. It is obvious how this system of social abuse already allows fraud. Although this is not your goal, Minister, it is an attack on families and communities. So you saw the foundations of a society that, like ours, is interested in a functioning family. Furthermore, those concerned must not have savings beyond the amount of €3 700 and existing “potential” – set under quotation marks – must be used. But this is nothing but the cold expropriation of the poorest of the poor. They thus bring people into a dependence on the state that simply cannot be supported. But not only that you push people into poverty and dependence, you do nothing to get them out of this vicious circle of alms reception. The incentives to take up work are half-hearted and force people in need into illegal black jobs, which we deeply reject. And if they are caught one day, the full hardness of the law will strike. The mistake in the system, as we find it, is that we equate poverty with the loss of the job. I have already told you that I believe that we absolutely need to change the definition. Poor is who works and still doesn't have enough. We must give up the system of wage replacements and gradually convert it into a system of pay supplementation benefits. Help is due to those who try to help themselves, not to those who rely on the help of others. And it is important to combat the poverty of the working and the incapacity to work. Full review of social benefits is a prerequisite for minimum insurance: Who gets how much for what achievements? The answer to this question is the basic requirement for social peace in the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, you remain a little guilty of this. You have also called for transparency, even today in your speeches. As I have been told, the idea of transparency in your own ranks is not the way we imagine it. It is true that you – at least one third of the Members – have remained guilty of our own Parliament's transparency database to disclose your own income. Finally, I tell you that the law is unfortunately unusable in our eyes because it promotes egoism. This law creates dependencies. This law strengthens the poverty it presupposes to combat. And this law is ultimately unfinancing. Help is due to those who try to help themselves, not to those who rely on the help of others. It is important to combat the poverty of the working person and the incapacity to work. It's social. Everything else is foreign to the world, naïve and an increase to those who ultimately have to pay for this form of socialism.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e14991	Mr Riepl is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15013	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! A few days ago it was possible to read in the newspapers that there are more and more millionaires in Austria – it has already been pointed out this morning – 10 percent more in a year. [[Abg. Grosz: Because of Mr. Voves!]] At the same time, the Caritas reports that there are also more and more poor people in our country, who are increasing poverty, and the number of those at risk of poverty is increasing. Both may also have an impact on the crisis. The fact is, we have more millionaires and more arms at the same time. Today we turn to the poor and try to fight poverty with the decision-making on the need-oriented minimum security, and tomorrow the millionaires will come along, I can promise you: We will ensure that these are also taken into account in future policy. Ladies and gentlemen! If over a quarter of a million people in Austria Survivors need state support as a complement to their income or as a replacement of their income or, as has already been pointed out, some 17 000 of them depend on social assistance permanently, so we all, I assume, want these figures not to increase, but rather to be smaller. It can't be fun if poverty increases and if, although we see that the number is increasing, we don't do anything about it. With this decision – unfortunately not all parties will agree – we will at least take a step in the right direction, as I think. The need-oriented minimum security, as it is now available, will contribute exactly to the fact that we no longer have, but rather less affected people. It is, as I think, a good recipe for poverty reduction. In the meantime, as we have heard, all the federal states are involved and support these common limits and these common rules that are associated with them. So it is not a “bubble spot, ” as was said by the liberals, it is not a “fuch work, ” as was said by the liberals, it is not an invitation to abuse, nor is it a“ love premium. ” As far as Mr Westenthaler's invoice and the difference of 74 € are concerned, I believe – and the Federal Minister has already said this clearly and clearly before – that this can only be an error of account, because the difference between 12-time and 14-time payouts must also be taken into account. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not an error in the calculation!]] And that there is no one who has a minimum wage of 1 000 €, anyway from the collective contracts, I think, can also be said. So that is not the case. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are very good: on earth!]] Some speakers in the debate are told that this minimum security is too high, while others are talking about it being too low. I believe, Minister of State, that we are very much in favour of what we are doing now. In any case, the minimum security does not stop people from working, but motivates and supports the return to working life – even that has already been done – we want to activate those who are able to work. And we know one thing, too, and I think that we would find total approval from everyone: Whoever works, he won't be poor. So work avoids poverty. This should also be expressed in this discussion. Finally, I would like to point out that, of course, minimum security is need-oriented, unattractive for abuse. There is the repayment obligation, there is the asset audit. Reductions are also possible when there is a lack of work, and more so. To conclude: The minimum guarantee – which has not yet been said in the debate so far – can be read in Article 19 – is a accompanying working group. It prepares a situation report, makes proposals, gives recommendations for improving or changing the legal basis, so evaluates. This working group includes representatives of the Ministries, the Countries, the Social Partners, the Senior Organizations, the Youth and the Poverty Conference. That is, if there is a real need for adjustment – which we do not believe – then you can definitely discuss and re-adjust this in the course of time accordingly. In this sense, I personally and my group have a good feeling if we decide on this today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15082	Next speaker: Federal Minister Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15103	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. ==References== July 2010 will be a historic day in Austria: For the first time in the history of this country, all groups of persons in Austria are insured. By means of today's law, we are creating a gap that has never been reached in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why? What has happened so far? – So far, groups of persons, such as social assistance workers, have depended on whether they are employed in their district headquarters, in their social assistance In the case of a person who has had an understanding of their situation, he or she has not been able to do so. It has depended on the expert whether he has allowed access to social health insurance or not. These persons did not have a legal claim. Today, if you give the law the consent, we'll do it. Every person in Austria has a right to social health insurance, throughout the country, a health insurance for all. As so often it has been spoken of by Carinthia: 17 000 people – this corresponds to the number of people who live in the city of Spittal, or the double number of people as it has the place Velden. These people have 1. ==References====External links== We do not overwhelm solidarity, and that is why we have also included in the amendment in the Committee that the local health telephone will be replaced by what they do for these groups. This is very important from my point of view. They are also excluded from the administrative cost cover. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow I will ask the House's main committee to give its assent to include those persons who claim the minimum level of insurance in social health insurance. That is the answer to the European Year for Combating Poverty, which is our answer to it. And I think if you agree today, we'll give these people back their dignity. That's a good answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15155	Mr Ing. Lugar speaking. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15176	Madam President. High house! We've heard a lot about the budget lately. It will be postponed, it is very, very difficult, it must be made savings, probably there are new taxes. There is a huge need for reform, and that is why the budget will be postponed. So, now we hear, we need reforms, we need savings, 60 percent have to be made over savings. Let us take a look at such a reform brand Hunttorfer. Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer has today presented us with a reform which, according to his words, is an epochal milestone that brings us all on. But this reform will cost much more money, it will cost at least 200 million, some even up to half a billion, more. Now, of course, one can be divided whether that is necessary or not. One thing is certain, someone has misunderstanded the word “saving. ” If, at a time when we have too little money in the back and front, we are putting in place a reform, laborious, with all possible exchange transactions and other political angular movements, if we already do, then at least a savings for the taxpayer should come out. But no, in this case it becomes even more expensive, up to half a billion more expensive. And what do you think you're gonna pay for this? – Finally, we will need an extra tax to get it back in. That's exactly the point. [[Abg. Graubur: The Greeks!]] Yes, I've heard, the Greeks will pay it. Yeah, well, that's probably how our decision-makers imagine it: that the money falls somewhere from heaven. – No, it won’t, it won’t fall from heaven, it will be a new tax burden on people. That's why: If you are making a reform, please make one by which it will be cheaper to save ourselves something – not one by which it becomes more expensive. And if you make a minimum guarantee, then always with the premise that it must ultimately become cheaper for the taxpayer, but not more expensive. And that went completely in the pants, next to all the problems we've heard today. The ÖVP has, at least she always claims, a certain degree of sparingness. Why you have been able to buy this minimum assurance with the glass beads of a transparency database, which is completely beyond my understanding. I don't understand what you promise. A transparency database only makes sense if you can draw conclusions from it. But I guarantee you one, and we've seen that now: With this SPÖ you will not make a social reform in a hundred years, which ultimately costs the taxpayer less than before, and that is exactly the point. They may bring about reforms with the SPÖ, not a question, but brand dog torfers that it will become more expensive after that than before. These are not the reforms we need! I know why the ÖVP is so hot, since today I know that. I have listened very carefully today to the statements made by Mr Kopf, and he has said something that makes us look very deep. He said politics doesn't need courage. - I wrote this. [[Abg. Gahr: That's not true! I heard it wrong! I'm sure!]] Courage is for Mr Klubobmann's head, so to speak, the victory of impatience over reason. You have to imagine that. [[Abg. Head: I just quoted!]] You quoted it, yes, but you seem to believe it. That is, if you think courage is something unreasonable, if you think courage is bad, then I know why no reforms can succeed: For proper reforms, we need courage. And if future reforms look like reforms brand dog tores that it gets more expensive, then I can only say one thing: Good night, Austria! Because all the reforms will ultimately have to pay the taxpayer. I'm already excited about what's going to happen to us in autumn and winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15239	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15260	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck, you have spoken about work that can also be lived on. – I think I remember that you are very busy in an industry where very, very low wages are paid. I just don't think it's all right for you to make yourself up here and talk about it right now, if you probably didn't do the homework in this area yourself. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What distinguishes us in the argument for or against a minimum guarantee, and even the government parties, is that one wanted to pay the minimum guarantee 14 times, while we pleaded for 12 months of disbursement. I think it's exactly the difference in what someone deserves when he's working and what he gets when the state has to help him. I believe that in a rich society, in a rich country like Austria, we can afford to help poorer people or people who have been outside the labour market for a long time, and we will do so with minimum security. Do. But anyone who has criticized and said that the abuse is open to the door and gate, I must say: We will do everything we can to prevent abuse, to put people first and foremost into employment, and to get someone who has been at home for a long time back into the work process. However, as far as the debate on social transfers, social benefits or also benefits of the state in poorer sections of the population is concerned, I would like to point out that: In the survey on distribution and performance justice in the January of this year, a representative of the poverty conference was also here, and he said: It is not certain that if there are high social transfers in a country, fewer people fall into poverty. That means that what we need is really safe for social transfers. The Court of Auditors has complained that, for example, in Vienna, the social system is quite vulnerable to abuse and that it is partly not correct. Therefore, the demand of our vice chancellor Josef Pröll, whom he raised in October last year, is that we have to look very carefully at where the social transfers go, where there are double tracks, where there are refreshments, and that everyone knows what he gets from the state if he himself pays less or perhaps nothing in the tax pot. One thing you have to say: All we decide – I am right to Mr Lugar, but only on this one point – and also to support poorer people and people who are not so good at society, someone has to pay and somehow have to be raised. This must be done by taxpayers. That is why no one has to be afraid of transparency, because every taxpayer and taxpayer should know and be certain that there is no abuse in the transfer services that go through their taxpayers again to poor people, needy people or families and that there is transparency. We are not afraid of transparency, not of entrepreneurs, farmers and workers, because we want social transfers to be effective for families in the future and not abused. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15318	Mr Hübner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15339	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Tamandl has said very correctly that we should not be afraid of transparency, that we even have to live transparency as a measure of our political action. Transparency, however, is a matter of honesty in the version and discussion of a law, and I have missed it on the part of the ÖVP so far. There are many things that are misrepresented and argued. Let's start with the title of this law: It should be a so-called requirement-dependent minimum guarantee. But that's not it, it's the classic basic wage. It is the basic income that you rightly reject, but which can be found there. You will find that not only in the law, if you clarify it, but there is this flat rate payment of currently €744 – there are then supplements and discounts, but there is in principle this basic guarantee of €744, which is completely independent from other things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Whether that is right or wrong, good and okay is another question, but there is now one. Therefore, it should not be called “need-dependent minimum security” but basic wage, which is what it is – at least in the discussion among politicians. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incorrect! Just wrong!]] – That’s not “just wrong,” but that’s it! There is a basic wage you get, regardless of what you do. And then there are certain obligations that you take on – to which I will come to speak – and certain deductions you get – essentially only if you live in a family community. In essence, deductions are made only if you live with others in a domestic community, as a minor, as a spouse, as a partner of life, otherwise there is no such thing. Otherwise, it's a basic security. Next point: A sufficient distance from the income of labour is simply not preserved. You can say what you want, there is no such distance. I do not even need to take part-time employment into account, but that has already been mentioned, but there is enough comparison with the minimum wages, with the compensation for apprentices for the third and fourth years, which are partly under the basic guarantee. For example, see the collective contract of gastronomy: In the third year you will receive 678 € and in the fourth year of class 734 € gross compensation for apprentices, i.e. less than the minimum guarantee. I do not want to talk now about mothers returning to working life and having 20-, 25-, 30-hour obligations, for which payment is usually also subject to minimum security. It is therefore not possible to speak of a sufficient distance. There is a need for a fundamental repair of our entire pay system, a fundamental rethinking for which people have to work. This cannot be the amount of €950 net in Austria, because it does not make sense. We need to think about a proper minimum wage level, otherwise we systematically ban our own population from the work process and create jobs that are only interesting for people from countries with a very low standard of living. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The last thing I would really like to address is the statement that social tourism is not promoted by it. – That’s just wrong! Social tourism is not only not promoted, but it is extremely promoted. We are facing the abolition of all restrictions on access to our labour and social market for about 75 million new EU citizens with 1. January 2011. 75 million from the Baltic Sea over Poland, which is not so dramatic, to Slovakia, to the Czech Republic, Hungary, that is dramatic for us. And citizens of these states may, if they register here for three months, come to terms with minimum security. That's not all. Three years later, another 30 million are added: 7.5 million Bulgarians and 22.5 million Romanians – in these countries the standard of living is much lower. There the average income is one third of our minimum insurance. To say that would not be an invitation to social tourism is absolutely dishonest. That's just dishonest! You can say: That's not a problem, we're rich enough, we're funding those, the poor Romanians and Bulgarians are supposed to live too!, but then you have to say it honestly and you can't do it like it was about helping the poor domestic population, because that's what the Greens have the right to find a reasonable outcome with 744 €. That is why we will reject this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15388	Mrs Mag. Rudas is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15411	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the debate on minimum security is mainly about people's trust in the state. If someone works hard, he must be able to rely on the state once he gets worse. And that is why the need-oriented minimum guarantee is at least a social policy milestone. Especially in economically difficult times, especially in times of high unemployment, poverty reduction instruments closely linked to the labour market need to be closely linked to labour market services. And yes, of course, it is especially important in this sensitive area to control that no one abuses or exploits the social state. But, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all those people who now have a job, but also fear of becoming unemployed, but also those who have become unemployed by a crisis they have not caused, have not deserved to be insulted in a political discussion as a social blackmailer, as people who are in the social hammock. They have worked hard for their lives and finance all of us, among other things. That is why I ask for a little more respect for those involved in the discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in the course of the transparency database that we are discussing today, we are talking about performance and performance-righteousness, I am, I must say, a particular party to transparency. Then let's show what a person gets for the performance of raising children, compared to the tax advantages of a penitent. [[Abg. Huber: Voves!]] Then let's compare what someone doing all day work with his hands, and how much he has to give of his salary compared to someone who lets his money work for himself. I am in favour of the performance discussion, but for this we must also define the concept of performance. There is one that defines performance purely economically and means, the more money someone has, the more he must have done. And then there is my opinion, our concept of performance, the concept of social democracy, we say: Performance is the added value for a society. And there we are still far away from a well-to-do society. I am convinced that a database of transparency, which deserves this name, can ensure greater efficiency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15452	Next speaker: Mr Huber. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15473	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If the Federal Minister says, the 7. July 2010 will go into history, I can only support it, because in Germany you will discuss and see how you get out of Hartz IV – and Austria introduces it today! From a social point of view, this is a very unfair measure by which all working people are punished. The annual costs of the federal government alone amount to €160 million, each federal state has to pay € 50 million more, and the municipalities are also heavily burdened. This is an insolence, an injustice to all the working persons in our country, and it remains the simple worker who at the end pays the token. I don't know if you've been thinking about what's going to happen. What will happen in Tyrol? – In Tyrol, for example, there are thousands of dishwashers who today have a net income of €800. [[Call to the ÖVP: There is no such thing!]] - But thousands! Mr. Hörl, you as a hoteler will confirm this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But he pays more!]] What's going to happen to these washers? – They will all become unemployed, because they may then get 1 000 € in a black job, plus another 744 € in wages. I don't know if that's fair. Of course, the people who need it have to help – there are 744 € anyway too little – but it cannot introduce a federal government such a thing and thus perhaps still promote the black market. I can't! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are hundreds of helpers in agriculture alone, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP – there is a representative of the Farmers' Federation – who still earn only 600, 700, 800 € net today. What will happen in this area? – The farmer will – he may even advise you – send people to unemployment and pay them a small amount. All these are cases you didn't think of! In addition: Who's going to check it out? – The AMS is not capable of doing so. The AMS too, I am convinced, will have to save massively, will have to save massively on its so-called intelligent courses. The task of the AMS is to mediate jobs – not to control such things. The next thing that hurts me is: Mr Buchinger has still spoken of 400 000, Mr Hundstorfer speaks of 270 000. You'll see, there's still a lot unclear. But instead of creating jobs with reasonable framework conditions, this federal government is refusing to work. One could immediately raise the minimum wage to €1 300; we could do that immediately. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would create additional purchasing power, it would finally invest and it would return money to the budget. But no, the Federal Government completely refuses to do so. It prefers to think about tax increases and other horrors, rather than sometime a reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Think about mass taxes and raise them, you can do that. The minimum security of Hartz IV has failed massively in Germany – you introduce it. Finally, if you make a service-friendly citizen's money, as the BZÖ has long called for, then you have solutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15544	Mr Maij-Weggen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15588	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's been brought 24 times before me today a lot of right, a lot of wrong, a lot of polemics. I would like to join those who have noted positively that today is a good day for people in this country, because one of the richest countries in this world is once again fulfilling its social responsibility. [[Abg. Weinzinger: 200 billion € Debts!]] With this minimum guarantee, we assume our social responsibility as an Austrian Parliament, at least most of it. We shall give this minimum agreement, because it is something similar to a fair return to those who may need it at a time when they are in a very difficult situation in person. That is why, as the Austrian People's Party, we will agree to this minimum assurance and, of course, the associated transparency database. The Federal Minister has already spoken today of the fact that the need-oriented minimum security is in reality nothing but the equality of the previous Social Assistance Guidelines. . Now the Taferl for you, Mr Grosz, because you have obviously not yet read it. [[The speaker puts a table on the speaker's desk again]] This is where the need-oriented minimum guarantee is recorded, and these are the different social assistance guidelines of the individual federal states. I can show you the board if it's too small for you. Mr Petzner, this beam, which continues to go up, shows Carinthia. That's very commendable. There is also good that is done there; unfortunately, there is too little. This shows the minimum level of security. The different guidelines of the federal states have already been addressed. 558 € are undoubtedly not an amount that is too high. You will not contribute to this... [[Deputies Grosz and Ing. Westenthaler goes near the speaker's desk.]] – For the two gentlemen in front of me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We take it with us!]] [[Abg. Grosz: We look at it!]] Yeah, yeah, you can look at it. A parliamentary session should also be instructive, and I do not have so much hope in both of you. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The social assistance that has been paid so far is now being unified, and 558 € is truly not an amount with which you can make big jumps. Since we want to restrict abuse, which may be there and there, there will be the accompanying measure of the transfer database. This transfer database is intended to help each individual to know which state grants they receive – that has already been carried out many times. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been mentioned today that we face major problems at a time of crisis. Nevertheless, it is all the more important that we do not forget those who are particularly difficult to do so. For this reason, we, the Austrian People's Party, together with our coalition partner, assume our responsibility and will give our consent to this minimum guarantee. Mr Grosz, after you have learned a little bit about it, you too, I hope, will be able to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15695	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15717	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In Austria, more and more families are affected by poverty. In the first quarter of 2010, 95 000 Tyroleans were at risk of poverty. The figures for the other areas of Austria are equally alarming and alarming. Especially women with children are exposed to the greatest danger of impoverishment. Thus, the number of children at risk of poverty increased by 20 percent. Also single-educated moth They are at risk of poverty and often have less than €1,000 a month to care for their children and also to pay for the apartment. These facts are the result of a missing social policy, as it has now operated Red-Black for many years. Now, evil awakening is coming, and a solution to the problem is unfortunately not in sight with minimum security! While you are out of control of the problem by SPÖ and ÖVP, leaving families and single parents with their children more or less out of control, I have made a further request here that would help those concerned a lot more: the preference of parents on the labour market. We constantly discuss favouring certain people because of their social position in the search for work. The debate on compulsory women's quotas and the so-called positive discrimination at work are not new, but Austria's families have the most need to be preferred on the labour market. If we look at the statistics on poverty, we must be afraid that poverty is particularly high in the area of single parents and their children in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand why you rejected my request in committee. This request would be an important contribution to preventing child poverty in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fight against poverty in Austria is very important and important. That is why I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15797	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Gartelgruber is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15879	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15901	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can't say it often enough: This government is concerned about the fight against poverty! This government is fighting against the impoverishment of our citizens, our families and our children in difficult times. Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be assumed that we live in one of the richest countries in the world, and yet we allow people to live under the minimum of existence in the neighboring home, and that more and more people are doing a job and yet too little money to be able to live on it. [[Abg. Weinzinger: 200 billion € Debts! Stop with the richest country!]] The economic crisis has shown us how fast it can be and that even the middle class can get into danger, because the dangerous game can easily begin for the middle class as well: First, the job is lost, then the apartment, then the social contacts and then all the opportunities for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Emergency aid is then for many, especially when children are present, the social end station. For thousands, this means an income under the minimum of existence. If the person concerned also lives in a partnership, it can also lose this allowance. And if that happens, unfortunately the health insurance is also lost with her. High-end calculations show that in 2008 Austrian-wide 21 700 people are therefore stagnant without their own health insurance. In Linz, the Stadtkasse jumps into such an uncertain insurance stand, but unfortunately not all cities and communities are such a social pattern city as it is my hometown Linz. 4 675 people had to insure themselves, if they could at all, despite the lack of income. They all paid € 27.1 million to a state that gave them no money because of unfair laws. Today's decision in this package of laws brings an end to this exceptional situation. We want to help people and not punish them for their distress, ladies and gentlemen! We want to secure them instead of leaving them in uncertainty alone. We create equality between the systems. Socially justified supplements, as we know them from pensions and unemployment benefit, will now also be available in emergency aid. In marriages too, it will be ensured that at the end at least the minimum of existence will be preserved. All will be insured. What Mr Stöger said was true: ==References== July 2010 is really a memorable day, because for the first time in the history of the Republic of Austria, all citizens will be insured. We thus create more justice, take away the poorest in our society at least a little bit from their concerns and their ballast that they have to bear. That is exactly what the state is doing, and that is exactly what a government is obliged to do. The SPÖ, its Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer and its Minister of Health Stöger not only take these obligations seriously, but also take them into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15937	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e15959	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, honestly, that I have found the speech of Mr Maizovits very good. I would also like to mention this because he has succeeded in presenting what the minimum guarantee does or does not do. In order to make it clear to everyone again, because this was also not properly presented by the government parties: It is only the harmonisation at a minimum level. [[Abg. Head: “Minimum security ” too!]] What we are experiencing now and what is already noticeable in individual countries – and I am glad that Mr Majovits may not like me – is that individual countries also have the tendency not to go beyond this minimum level, so what has so far been done in these countries actually does not want to be maintained. That would be a fatal development. It would also contradict the ban on deterioration, but we still have a lot to do with it, as it does. But now back to the point, which is why I have spoken a second time. No, before, an additional supplement: It's always said that what's coming is Hartz IV. I have to say to all those who say this: That can't be Hartz IV – or dog torfer I, that sounds crazy! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Dog Torfer I!]] In the Federal Republic of Germany, emergency aid has been abolished and replaced with this new benefit. But Hartz IV is much more. In our view, emergency aid is not abolished, but it remains as a service, and there is an additional service, which we believe is far too low and not poverty-resistant. As you think of the government parties, you can see it. That's the point I'm referring to now. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is also the proposal and the text of the application. What is meant is that it was originally intended to guarantee a benefit of €141.12 per month for the compensatory allowance rate or the minimum guarantee rate for children. You know the whole debate: not even 14, but twelve times. Now this is reduced to 120,96 €. This is a fatal trend, unfortunately, which has enforced the EIA during all the negotiations, namely to evade everything down. This is also not reflected in the beautiful table of Parliamentary Slickovits. It is also happening in Carinthia that social assistance benefits have been levelled downwards. That's fatal. We don't even see that you want to damage the children with this performance, and we still license it down. Mr Gartelgruber says that many children live in poverty. That's right! Then at least these benefits, as was originally included in the 15a agreement, which is not now taken into account by the Federal Government, are to be left on these 141,12 € per month. Our amendment aims to ensure that this compensatory allowance or the minimum rate for children of the amount of € 141,12 is left and not € 120,96, as the government provides.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16026	The amendment tabled by Mr Oellinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16085	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16106	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The support of people in economic distress by means of legal social benefits is already enough in the 19th century. ==References== In the meantime, there is a variety of social benefits. This law, which we are adopting today, achieves a harmonisation of these social assistance laws. The federal states are invited to implement it by means of an Article 15a agreement which has already been decided in the federal states. A social reception network is thus being created. I'm right, Mr. Stöger, that it's a memorable day when everyone in our country is really sick. However: The transparency database will ensure that abuse cannot take place. The minimum guarantee for those who cannot find or cannot work is justified. The social assistance institutions must check whether a person is able to work or not. Those who need it will get it, but it must not be misused. I mentioned the transparency database. I think it's important that this is introduced. It was mentioned by Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer that it is visible to state institutions – in an anonymized form for all of us. In this regard, my criticism is as follows: Colleagues Herbs or Oberhauser said in their speeches: Well, the agri-environmental measures must be included. The one! Payments to farmers must be included! . I can clearly and clearly state here that nowhere is there as much transparency as in the agricultural field, where these payments are already listed, although they are not social benefits. As a result, farmers provide services, agricultural services, and for that they receive counter-services. I do not know whether this can be done well in the long run, if, of course, there are names and addresses of each recipient and on the other hand, this can only be determined in anonymized form with the transparency database. My opinion is: Either we make everything really transparent that everything is accessible, or we simply create this transparency database, which is now responsible for farmers, and there is no longer it. Mr Herb then also spoke about the single value situation and called for the traffic values. That's what I'm saying quite clearly: It is the yield of which the farmers live, and not the value of the land. I strongly reject the idea of a single value for transport and also an increase in the basic tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim is to make a trampoline out of a social hammock and to help those affected: Help for the needy and sanctions for abuse!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16169	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16191	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! With the agreement on minimum security and the simultaneous fixation of the essential contents and the timetable in the form of a resolution on the transparency database, the ÖVP has succeeded in achieving two important concerns, namely the distribution justice and, on the other hand, the performance right to one hat and to ensure these two objectives. We say yes to social assistance, but at the same time we want to look at those who are trying to benefit from our social system. The transparency database is therefore necessary in order to avoid abuse and double conductivity. However, it also serves as an information and service portal to obtain a certificate of performance for services already used. We understand the people who are skeptical of the minimum guarantee. Therefore, it was and is essential for us to ensure minimum and transparency data base at the same time as 1. ==References== The Minister for Social Affairs is simply required to comply with and implement the provisions of the motion for a resolution accordingly. Those 3.6 million workers who fill the tax pots have a right to know where their tax money is going and how it is used. Because only through their services can we maintain our social system accordingly and afford this system as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The development of the number of minimum insurance providers is constantly to be observed, particularly with regard to the impact on the labour market. The primary objective must be to re-integrate the people who are temporarily in need into the labour market with the help of minimum security and in cooperation with labour market services. One thing must not be the minimum guarantee: a social hammock for non-workers. For the EIA, it is the top priority to preserve people in employment. Therefore, no financial incentive should be provided to reduce working hours or to give up work entirely. Performance and performance must be rewarded in the future as before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from a farming point of view, a comment on Mr Herbe's speech – I do not see him in the plenary room at the moment, but perhaps one can tell him: He's been talking about the unit value. I like to invite him; he should try what it is like to be a farmer or a miner, to march for hours behind the motor mower, to do stable work daily in the morning and in the evening, even on Sunday and holiday. He is welcome to try this, and then he should talk about the value of unity again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16248	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16269	Madam President. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! It has already been mentioned by a number of previous speakers, and I also do not want to abstain from this debate. I would like to refer briefly to those mentioned by the Socialist Group in relation to compensation for agricultural holdings. It is important not to mix this with social policy, because there is a big difference. Social policy is where benefits are provided by the State and agricultural policy is provided for the State. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are food security, environmental protection, tourism, quality of life in vital rural areas and, in the future, biomass as well as energy supply. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I think there is a social aspect in it, and that is the supply of food to the people, Mr President. I mean, in today's society, it's a massive course that the table is always covered, and that's why there's something lacking in respect. According to the motto: If you eat a piece every day, you don't know when Sunday is!, we feel a little disrespectfully treated by agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Rudas, you've asked for respect before. This is also what we call for for for this group of people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Creating a level playing field requires transparency. With the transfer account, we want to create data clarity, facilitate access – not for specialists and system optimisers, but for all those in need – to create a network for the weaker in our society, but not a “fashion bed” for inconsistencies wishing for a state-subsidized all-inclusive supply. The presentation of what services are provided by the public authorities is intended to provide a clear overview of transfer payments. It is about giving an overview on the one hand, but also about carrying out evaluations on the other. The aim is to consider whether measures are timely, adapt them to real needs, set priorities and create a decisive basis for forward-looking policies. There is today a resolution on the transfer database. At the beginning of September 2010, a draft assessment will follow until 19. ==References====External links== ==References== She is expected to enter into force by law in January 2011. This timetable must be observed. Mr Minister, we will measure you on this, and it will show us what your handshake and your word are worth!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16360	Mr Pack is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16381	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! The objective of minimum security, which is needed, is to avoid poverty and reintegration into the labour market – we have noted today in the debate. Looking back at the debate, it is important to note, in particular in the direction of opposition, in particular of the liberals and the BZO: You should rather spread facts instead of myths! Of course, one cannot rule out the fact that there is no single co-workers of the SPÖ and the Greens, because the claim that the People's Party had no social conscience and so on clearly disproved my colleague Clickovits with his graphics. Especially in the SPÖ-regulated countries, the lowest social assistance guidelines are applied. It is also necessary to maintain that the need-oriented minimum guarantee is not a basic income. It is important that we also support people to return to the work process and join it. This, of course, presupposes a willingness to work. In particular, we support or encourage this willingness to work with the need-oriented minimum security, because we now also have sanctions. The general claim, which has been made so often, that social assistance recipients do not wish to or are not willing to take part in the labour market at all, must be rejected. It can also be clearly explained that this is not the case. To do so, you only have to look at the many reintegration measures and models, or also visit various socio-economic enterprises, where people are successfully reintegrated into the first labour market. It was also brought the example Hartz IV. A colleague from the BZÖ – I believe – said that abuse is so high. The fact is, at Hartz IV, which of course cannot be compared with the minimum guarantee, the abuse rate is just 1.9 percent of the cases. To summarize the debate: Once the minimum security is too high, then it is too low. It's too easy to get, it's too difficult to get. She's too loosely monitored, she's too strictly controlled. So: The government of ÖVP and SPÖ has hit exactly the middle, the golden way. This is a proper and important measure that we are deciding on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16424	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16446	Madam President. Estimated representatives on the government bank! High Parliament! It is a natural obligation for society to combat poverty and to help those who are unable to finance an adequate standard of living on their own initiative or suddenly lose their jobs. Especially in an economically tense time like this, there are thousands of Austrians who share this fate, like 120 employees of the Carinthian printing company, who are owned by SPÖ, who suddenly stand on the streets with their families who suddenly have no income. The owner, SPÖ, simply rejected a social plan that trade unionists and employee representatives asked for. It is a duty to help these people! However, the already existing exaggerations, as they are enshrined in our social system, must be corrected, otherwise an increase of the active and willing Austrians and a disparity of treatment, as already shown by examples, which no one understands and which is quite an invitation to abuse this social system. The reform now under review should not provide for relief, but should actually prevent an even greater number of people from using this system. I would therefore like to ask Mr Westenthal, who has asked the question: How will the Carinthian Members and we here in the vote respond and make it clear: There are seven points to be decided here: firstly, the item on the agenda, which meets those people who are affected by unemployment for a long time and are permanently affected by unemployment, which in particular supports those who are entitled to a compensatory allowance, which, in turn, is expected to strengthen purchasing power, which, above all, improves the financial situation of women who are still disadvantaged by the different levels of men. We will vote in favour of this government proposal. However, we will not give our approval to Agenda item 3, namely Article 15a, because precisely in that framework law those measures are well, I can clearly explain that to you. [[Abg. Grosz: But the Lord Dörfler signed that!]] It has already been said that Kärnten has had one of the best offers of social benefits and one of the best social assistance in the past – and for this it is thanks to the head of state Haider. [[Abg. Grosz: He refused!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The Dörfler signed it, and you'll do it again!]] Not for nothing have the liberals in Carinthia also been praised by the voters! [[Abg. Grosz: That was the BZÖ, but it's meaty!]] Whether it has been the child's allowance that Dr. Jörg Haider introduced, whether it has been the Free Kindergarten year, which by the way, the current head of state, Dörfler, has introduced, a number of social measures have been put in place, which have been implemented throughout Austria. [[Abg. Petzner: Done! Aw, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And it would be bad for our members of the government, if they did not respond to the Article 15a agreement, because that means more money for Carinthia. The current Social Country Council, through the labour market service, has a large part of the financial resources it has not yet available in the national budget. The Carinthian colleagues only need to look into the 2011 budget – very much to the difference from the federal government, we have already presented to the Carinthian a budget, in time, in accordance with the constitution: It says that we will also provide more resources in the social field. In my view, however, it is to be criticised that these two keywords, which have been strained by SPÖ and ÖVP in recent months – the basic safeguards on the part of SPÖ, the transfer account on the part of the ÖVP – in reality do not guarantee efficient control. Rather, there are alibiactions that are designed to prevent the crucial areas, namely job security, job creation, which is the best fight against poverty, which is the best social assistance, which is the best social policy! – have actually been cancelled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, one word to the transfer account: For years, the administrative reform, which would bring billions to the government budget, has also been postponed for the socially needy. With the introduction of this transfer account, we will now produce an enormous additional administrative burden, because all countries, all social departments at national level, all social departments at local level are obliged to report their data now in central offices to Vienna. There are huge administrative bloatings here – also new posts, new facilities. This money should better be used in such a way that it benefits those who really need it. In this sense, I can say that we will adapt our voting behaviour in such a way that where there is an improvement in social assistance, where the law will benefit those who are really in need, who are also affected by long-term unemployment due to the economic situation, the consent will be given to ours. On the other hand, where there is in reality an outrage and an invitation to social abuse, we will not give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16546	Mr Petzner spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16571	Mr Martin Strutz here claimed that Gerhard Dörfler had introduced the Free Kindergarten in his capacity as the Council of State. I'll put it right: The Free Kindergarten was introduced at the time by the head of state Jörg Haider. A few days ago, Chief of State Gerhard Dörfler announced the abolition of the Free Kindergarten introduced by Jörg Haider in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16598	Mr Lipitsch spoke about another actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16622	Dear colleague Strutz – you are still in the hall anyway – you claimed that in the Carinthian printing company it was necessary for the SPÖ to reject a social plan. I'll put it right: The ÖGB has now taken over the outstanding wages for pre-financing. And all negotiations, as in any other company, will be conducted on the ÖGB with the employees' representatives, and the staff will be given every right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16650	Mr Strutz, you cannot make any actual corrections to your own speech or to an actual correction. [[Ironic Oje-Rufe at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: “Don’t do that! ”]] You can, of course, speak again. This possibility is open to you. [[Abg. Grosz: Or put it in the Winkerl!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But he could invalidate his word record!]] [[Abg. Grosz: He could also be in the Winkerl!]] Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16729	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before we come to the vote, I would like to make a few points. But before I do this, I would like to inform you again about the following: We are at the unemployment rate in June European champions. We have the lowest unemployment rate of all the Member States of the European Union! [[As a result of the SPÖ as well as of representatives of the ÖVP and Bravoruf at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There can be any single unemployed something...!]] This has become possible thanks to a well-being economy, a prosperous industry, an excellent work of the AMS. And all those involved are due to the fact that we have an unemployment rate of 4.0 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But... thousand in courses!]] I would also like to say at this point – so that you are not misinformed in your own debates – that: We have a decline in long-term unemployment – a minimalist decline in long-term unemployment, but a decline in long-term unemployment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You hide the people in the courses! 80,000 courses!]] I would also like to give an answer to those who think that we are creating new dependencies, we are creating an anti-performance law: Ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask you and ask – something else I can't do –: Read today's state-of-the-art social assistance laws and read what is in the article-15a agreement! Today, the savings are gone in all the federal states! Get off the trip! There's no free money at all, but everything's gone! Also in – supposedly – very progressive Carinthia: It's gone! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just scream on Carinthia!]] In fact, we promote people by keeping at least something in their savings. - That's one point. In fact, with this Article 15a agreement, we have for the first time created a uniform amount of property. In fact, we have also managed for the first time to ensure that social assistance does not go into possession immediately – because in many federal states, social assistance is now immediately entering the property. We now have a six-month deadline for the first time. Make yourself here and say that this is even more anti-performance – please do not be angry: Please read what is in the laws today! It should also be made clear once again as regards the move to Austria – because it has been said here that everyone will overshadow us –: If anyone comes from the Federal Republic of Germany today and doesn't do any work here, he won't get BMS, just as he doesn't get any social assistance today! He must have pursued a job and meet the minimum requirements. He needs a fortified residence in Austria. If there is a social abuse, then we are very likely to have foreign police mechanisms. As we have today, we will have it tomorrow! The foreign police are also going to control these cases. If you make yourself here and say, now you're being advertised in Hungarian newspapers, hollodero: Yes, these ads are available in part. I, too, know these ads – it is not a privilege for the liberal Members to know such ads. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: A “privileg”?- Oh, my God!]] We know there are a few ads, but we are also prepared for such ads! Then: In October or November, you will decide to take further measures on wage and social dumping, because it is very easy for us to create fair rules for playing, to create fair verifiability. And we'll make it clear to all those who come here and think I'm alive now and want to have it all: It's not possible. Let us not frustrate people with something that does not exist! That's why I'd like to ask you. To conclude: Even if you make yourself here and say that from the € 140 million you will be €500 million, I do not know where the honourable Member in question has this very serious. What my predecessor Buchinger said about the number of 400 000 included all the compensation recipients. Make yourself here and say it's going to be half a billion, that's for sure! – I would like to stress this here. A small non-chalant remark was allowed to me on the comments made by some Members of the Coalition Partner: It is clear, of course, that this bill will be introduced – but we must do it too twice! – I would like to say that here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e16842	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Grosz: (pointing to the ÖVP) Now they have to agree too!]] The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of ÖVP) Get up because the Lord wants dog torfer!]] We shall first vote on the draft Social Insurance Amendment Act 2010 in 818 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of this amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an amendment to Article 3b(4). I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 818 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of FPÖ) You have agreed to the minimum guarantee!]] – This is accepted by a majority. (E 108.) [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues... [[Further calls.]] [[Abg. Grosz: For the protocol: The FPÖ has agreed to the minimum guarantee!]] I'd ask for a little more rest, otherwise there might be again.... [[Abg. Grosz: They all agree to the vote as counter-voicers!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I will not continue with the vote until there is no rest in the house! [[Abg. Grosz: They sign up as a counter speaker and then agree!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is totally irrelevant in the voting process whether someone stands up or not. I see whether the majority is given or not. That is the decisive! [[Abg. Grosz: “Thank you! ” “Thank you!” – There is no such thing as that!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the increase in the net rate of replacement in unemployment insurance and on the removal of the billing of partner income for emergency aid. I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give this motion for a resolution a sign. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is rejected. [[Abg. Now she's coming!]] We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries referred to in Article 15a of the B-VG on a national minimum guarantee based on needs in 677 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 820 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 821 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 822 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the Stenographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on the right of defence and performance in Austria: Transparency and fairness", III-111 of the supplements, to take note. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[16:17:33]] 8. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (774, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Construction Workers' Vacation and Waste Management Act (824 d.e.c.) 9. Item Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues, on general client liability for social security contributions in the construction sector (825 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17069	We now come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kickl is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17106	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is an indisputable fact – unfortunately, one has to say – that whenever one deals with the construction industry, one does not miss out on the question of social fraud in this area as well. Of course, the social fraud there has a dimension that is not to be underestimated. We have lost billions in the past, and that is why it is also important – and in the past you have always had freedom of movement on your side when it comes to taking measures to limit social abuse in the various forms as regards the construction sector. I am very grateful to one or other Member of the SPÖ, who, unlike the competent Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, are also unsightly – for one cannot pretend to be opening the labour market on 1st. This is not an additional problem, especially in this area, to grow up in May next year. This means that what is denied by the Federal Minister is at least allowed by the competent trade unionists in the SPÖ, because of course they know precisely that most of those who are unemployed, for example in Hungary, come from the construction sector and, of course, this will lead to an increase in the situation for domestic workers. That is, you have us there on your side, which is about the issue of combating social fraud. That is why we were also involved in introducing the application before the start of the work, and we were also there where it was about creating the client's liability. However, from our point of view, this agreement does not mean, of course, that we should not develop things that we have introduced and control instruments that we have created. So I now see the request made by the BZÖ, that of Mr Dolinschek, as regards a change, a further development, I would like to say that the client liability is positive. I think that if you follow this request – and we will do so – there are only winners: There are winners, as far as the public is concerned, as far as social security systems are concerned, there are winners as regards the protection of workers, there are winners as regards, so to speak, new entrants who have no competitive advantage, and there are, above all, no noticeable disadvantages for the entrepreneur who is already liable if he is liable for all, provided that he assures himself that those whom he has commissioned in the future are not among the black sheep. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words on the question of the amendment of the construction worker's leave and handling law, an ancient law, which is very, very complicated, in which there are now changes. I do not hide that there are a lot of things that make sense and that one can say, these are approaches that go in the right direction, so quite positive effects. For example, I am thinking – again in the context of the fight against abuse – of the improvements in the obligation to provide information, because it is easy here to take the new entrepreneurs a little bit short, to tighten penalties, to improve control situations. There is also an advantage as to the payment of the claim of the winter holiday allowance, and it is certainly also an advantage that the holiday claim is now paid out from the beginning and you do not have to wait for weeks to get a holiday claim at all. - That's the positive side. Unfortunately, the great But is coming, and this great But is so big that we cannot agree to this after in-depth examination, which concerns the question of changing the expectations for the acquisition of holiday periods. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We will see that first!]] I agree, in particular, with my colleague, that he has made a great effort, but we have said, of course, that we do not rely on what is told us by the red trade unionists and the social partners, but we look around and look at this once at the construction workers themselves – and there the satisfaction of this supposedly great achievement is already very, very dampened. It is not a trace of the fact that you are as satisfied with this outcome of the negotiations as you would like to make us believe in many areas, but it looks different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Behind the reserved construction workers' hand, one hears that it is, of course, a deterioration that is at the expense of the worker and that brings certain benefits to the employer. I already know that there have been collective agreements for this. This means that something has been achieved here, but what has been achieved does not compensate from our point of view what has been lost for the workers. That is why we also do not give our approval to this bill. I say it again: There are some positive points, but: Please take our No as an order for increased and improved trade union work in the future in the interest of construction workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17168	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17189	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to begin with remarks on Agenda item 9, a BZÖ request that all construction companies in the future will generally be subject to the client's liability and that social security contributions must therefore also be made compulsory. This request is not understandable to us because the client's liability has been valid since its entry into force with 1. September 2009 has developed so positively that 15 661 construction plants and construction facilities are now attached to this HFU list of non-liability companies. These are all those companies that have not been in error in the last three years: neither in the field of illegal employment nor in the field of outstanding social security contributions. For this reason, this request would be a deterioration for all those construction plants – as has been said, 15 661 – which properly fulfil their obligations in this respect and properly deliver the contributions. It would be a punishment for all companies with a white vest. We cannot agree to this and for this reason the SPÖ Group will take note of the negative committee report. Now item 8 on amendments to the Civil Employment and Processing Act: A number of points have been raised by Mr Kickl on the positive points. There are much more points here that are positive, but let me use the time specifically to address the 52 week holiday claim for the construction workers. It's right: So far, 47 or 48 weeks of employment have been necessary to reach a holiday period. In this respect, there have been some legal concerns, i.e. it has also been supported by an opinion that the administrative court could be regarded as worrying. For this reason, as a trade union, we have worked together with the social partners in truly innumerable negotiations that lasted a few months since a decision was made. So there is the proposal, with 1. In January 2011, we tried to make the changeover to the calendar year, and all that was given to financial loss due to the subsequent entry into force, we tried to compensate for or compensate for the next three years by means of a collective agreement with higher CV wages. Ladies and gentlemen! There will probably be no collective agreement in 2010, 2011 and 2012 which will reach the corresponding level of the building collective contract. In 2010 consumer price index plus 1.1 percent supplement, 2011 consumer price index plus 0.85 percent and 2012 consumer price index plus 0.9 percent. That is to say, this outcome has been compensated for by a really very high KV degree, which will then be calculated over the years thereafter in all areas – in the area of KV wage increases, Christmas, holiday allowances, unemployment benefit, health care – and, of course, also in pensions, because this has significantly increased the basis for contributions. I have tried and tried to convince all parties of these measures in the course of the Committee. I am aware that not everyone has succeeded. I have also tried to convince by means of information various critics that this is a good, an important novel, even if it is a matter of taking further steps in the fight against social fraud. I am aware that not all the political groups have succeeded, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity here for all the political groups to take part in the very practical and Thank you for your open discussion on BUAG-Novelle. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17247	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17269	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am still chewing on the voting behaviour of the preliminary round. So it is a lot to explain to me, but after the fires that the liberals held against the minimum guarantee as a whole, it was already impossible to explain how they voted. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Oh, the debate convinced her!]] I'll hold you once again. As a core, the minimum guarantee has an Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries in which the Federal Government commits itself to improvements and in which the countries commit themselves to improvements. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This Article 15a agreement did not agree with the liberals because they do not believe that the federal government and countries should improve something because it is hell. However, the liberals have agreed to the point in which the federal government then takes over the consequences of the Article 15a agreement, namely the improvements in federal law. That doesn't really fit together, but maybe we'll get it explained. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's meat! That's higher mathematics!]] . Only, after Mr Kickl's speech, I thought that it was going to be so nonchalant. I think it's good that you voted in favour, but I still don't know if you like it after your own speeches. Let's talk about it. To Colleague Muchitsch: Pleased to say, Mr Muchitsch – we have already talked about this in committee anyway – is that there has been an information and also a discussion from your side, though very late, but after all. Less pleasant – with this I refer only to the framework conditions – and, of course, Mr Kickl is right that this agreement, which is essentially a social partners agreement, includes not only improvements for those concerned, but also what could be described as deterioration. Even less pleasant – but no longer this agreement – is a simple substantial question as regards the construction workers, and we have talked about it in the Committee, namely the payout of a current account. Please listen to me, colleague. The disbursement into a current account cannot be agreed between the social partners, because entrepreneurship representatives of the construction employers are of the opinion: We'd rather pay it out on the hand! – “Bar on the hand”, for which we had a few years ago an expert here who liked to do so, and we know what “bar on the hand” can also be called. [[Abg. Head: Well!]] - Well, of course! [[Abg. Head: Don't put something like that!]] It is, excuse me, Mr Head, for 30 years for all workers – that is, I think, too short – that it is legally clear that wage and income payments have to run over a current account. This is the case for all employees in Austria, but only one group is excluded from it, which is the construction workers. – That also amazed me; I did not know. That's grotesk! That this cannot be agreed today, because the employer's side obviously still refuses to agree on this point, it is no longer just grotesque, but it is urgently repaired by the legislator, as I believe, because it is not possible to wait for a long time until the social partners or some of the social partners are brought to this agreement. Yes, Mr Muchich, we agree because there are a number of improvements in the substance, even if there are deteriorations. That is why I am now surprised by the voting behaviour of Mr Kickl, who has also discussed the same things in the Committee and who, of course, also knew that there are points that are not so good for the workers, but something – but actually I am not quite surprised by the voting behaviour at the item on the agenda. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Silhavy.]] - That on this point. As far as the other point, the general liability of companies, is concerned, I have also learned from the debate, but I do not go as far as the government parties, who believe that this is an improvement, which will, so to speak, also show their positive effect per futuro. I would like to look at this for another, two years, whether the effect that has now come through the positive list and which is absolutely positive is still in one or two years. I am a little more skeptical than the government parties and not quite as easy to convince, and therefore we will not agree to the negative committee report either.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17360	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17382	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not entirely of the opinion of the President, who said it was irrelevant whether or not the Members stood up. Personally, I was very pleased that, contrary to our expectations, the Members of the Free Party have risen from their seats. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Contrary to your own speeches!]] Perhaps this is still going to be discussed by the clubman and his alternate outside, but the fact is that, contrary to the previous statements, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been aware of the need for minimum security. This is to be held in recognition; we have four parties in the boat. [[Abg. Vock: That's not true!]] Congratulations – we are happy about this late execution! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second note, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: The question is again and again how far the social partners' arm goes in here in Parliament. – In the best sense of this word, he goes a bit far in here today: Not only was the chief negotiator on the employee side a representative of the High House, Mr Muchitsch, himself at work, but the employer's representative also attends the debate. It is, however, a good result – and I do not share the opinion of Mr Öllinger – and it is a good tradition that social partners, especially when they are concerned with the field of the working world, are being implemented here in Parliament 1: 1 and so it is in this case too. I noticed a little Freud’s promise, colleague Muchich: You spoke of 52 weeks of holiday entitlement. – This may have been Sigmund Freud, but it remains that the holiday claim arises after 52 weeks. I've seen that Bundesinnungsmeister Frömmel was almost thrown off the gallery when he heard that. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Third note, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: As in the case of minimum protection, I do not believe that Dolinschek's proposal, as in the case of minimum protection, is the subject of an intensification of the liability system for fair construction employers. What are you doing?- Oh, my God! – If it is found that an employer has provided construction services for three years, has paid social security contributions for three years, why should this client return from this list and enter extended liability provisions? [[Abg. Dolinschek: The Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce is also for sharpening!]] We confess to every activity in the fight against social fraud – we know that this is still necessary – but in that case, if someone has acted fairly for three years, it is assumed that he will continue to do so. We have not brought this request to committee, nor will we do so in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17463	Mr Bartenstein, you are quite right, of course, that it is not irrelevant, as the Members vote. If this has led from my side to misinterpretations, I'm sorry. The comments on the voting behaviour of the other Members are irrelevant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] I just have to see what the vote results are. If that didn't happen like that, I've made it clear in this place. Next, Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17503	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the novelle on the construction worker's holiday and handling law, I agree with many previous speakers that there are advantages on the one hand, but of course also disadvantages on the other. However, the disadvantages for the workers outweigh and the advantages for the companies in this area are outweighed, because the extension by five weeks – from 47 to 52 weeks – of the company’s annual contribution to the building workers’ holiday and treatment fund is reduced, and by the removal of the Saturday sixth place, the payment amount for entrepreneurs is reduced again. Less people work there, because due to this extension of the reputation, they have a loss of €475.68 a year – especially people who are longer unemployed in winter from canal construction, the black decks and so on. This also covers the increase in the collective contract, the increase of 1. May 2010 is done and has been completed for the next two years, quite simply not finished. It is irresponsible that employees who are subject to the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act need five weeks more standing, and at the Works Council conference in April 2010, all works councils who were not in the negotiating team were strongly criticised by the negotiation team of the Austrian Trade Union Bau-Holz. We have taken up this criticism. It has continued with us by our works council, Max Walch, and therefore we will not agree to this innovation in this form – although, of course, we also see some positive things in this area, such as the advantage that workers will be able to spend the holiday aliquot in the future in the future, and not to wait 26 weeks. The fact that the general right of holiday is to be applied to the double teaching of Spengler and Dachdecker is also positive. But one thing I have to ask: Why is it not possible for the wage accounts to be announced and the building workers' holiday and handling fund to pay this holiday grant directly to the workers? – The state of affairs, ladies and gentlemen, is as follows: When a construction worker registers a holiday, the company must request this money from the construction worker's holiday and handling bank. The building worker's holiday and handling bank transfers the amount to the construction firm and it then pays off to the construction worker in the event of holiday consumption. However, if the construction worker becomes ill or is unable to take up the holiday for other reasons, the construction firm must return this amount to the building worker's holiday and treatment fund. So that's bureaucracy to square! And that's still fact. But that's just not how it can be! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the following about social fraud: The registration for social security before taking up work in the Social Insurance Amendment Act 2007 is with 1. In January 2007, it entered into force and contributed significantly to the fight against undeclared work. At the time, the arguments were similar, Mr Bartenstein, and they were anti-entrepreneurship and so on. Finally, however, it was not possible to limit the social fraud at the construction site when construction workers registered before the start of work. - That's one thing. Now it is true that from 800 company book entries 600 to 700 companies no longer exist a year later. This exemption from liability of entrepreneurs, this list, which appears practically, applies for three years. But fact is, all bankruptcys – okay –, 80 percent of bankruptcys, affect companies that are operating for less than five years, and companies that are active for less than three years and 50 percent of bankruptcys. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] Then there are still those who “represent ” the short-term subcontractors who report to the people within a year. And in addition, this list is a bureaucratic effort. I'm not alone with my criticism. The current State Secretary for Finance, Lopatka, demands the same. ==References====External links== June of this year: ‘Lopatka put the action under the Ministry of Finance motto ‘Fairness for taxpayers’: “A part of it is the fight against undeclared work.” Lopatka also said: “The so-called general entrepreneurship liability to the construction, which has already been founded last year, is to be further strengthened.” And he is not alone with this, but the President of the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce calls for the same thing – to be read in the “Economic Sheet”, Mr. Cot. I'm not alone, I'm in good company. And I'm convinced: We will only be able to limit social fraud by such measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17565	Mr Hechtl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17586	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! For the employed construction workers, the contract is a very, very good law. With this change of law, the Civilian Vacation Act will in certain parts be aligned to the Holiday Law and remains, however, a special law in substantial parts tailored to the construction workers. Despite the evaluation of the annual expected weeks of 52 weeks, the increased holiday entitlement to six weeks, namely after 1 150 weeks of service, remains. This change of law also regulates the fight against social fraud more effectively. In particular, the statistics of the building workers' holiday and handling fund of 6. July this year shows clearly how important and necessary controls are in the construction sector and how important and necessary it is to combat these figures that have been presented. In these checks, approximately €2.8 million of surcharges could be prescribed by the building worker's holiday fund, so 268 persons were found, which were not exactly clear whether these were regular working conditions or contract contracts. Social fraud – which has been cut down more often today – is a fraud against society and must be fought with all means. Another important point of this legislative change is the clarification of the application of the construction worker's holiday and handling law to apprentices. For those apprentices who start the double teaching of roofing and spengler from August on, the holiday law will be applied in the future. This also takes into account the different legal interpretations and legal bases of the Vocational Training Act and the Civilian Vacation Act. For teaching conditions that already exist at this time, the employer has the right to request the change to the holiday law via application at the Baubeiter-Urlaubskasse. With an amendment, an information requirement for the building workers' holiday fund has been added in this respect, so that it is regulated by law that the building workers' holiday fund gives those apprentices an information in which the employer has submitted an application for change from the building worker's holiday fund to the holiday right. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Civilian Vacation and Processing Act also remains a centenary law with its changes: for the benefit of the heavy and often most unfavorable construction workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17642	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act, together with the title and receipt in 824 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 825 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:46:35]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (770, p._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons, the Federal Law on the Disabled, the Law on Family Compensation in 1967 and the Income Tax Act in 1988 (823 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17709	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17736	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One word on the vote on minimum security. I hope that the voting behaviour of the liberals has not been a margin of vote, but that there has actually been a rethinking, which would be a very good sign for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now the legislative text relating to the law on the disabled. This law became necessary because the current assessment, i.e. the assessment of the degree of disability, both in the field of the Law on Disability and in the Federal Disability Act, dates back to the War Victim Care Act of 1957. This directive no longer complies with the state of medical science and, above all, with the requirements of today's labour market. That is why this change of law has been necessary to take account of this new situation. Following the multi-faceted referral of the Federal Disability Advisory Council, particularly involving many communities of interest for people with disabilities, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the ÖGB, there is now an assessment regulation which actually brings substantial improvements to the people concerned. What are some of these essential improvements? – On the one hand, the assessment will now be based on a function-related and non-diagnosis-related assessment. For the first time, mental disorders will also be taken into account. And there is also, above all, a significant improvement in the assessment of sensory impairments. It was also taken into account that the transitional provisions should be laid down. That is, the new assessment regulation has no effect on people who are already classified for the duration of three years, there will be no change in the assessment for these people. Other experts, such as psychologists, are also included in the assessment of the degree of disability in addition to the medical expert. Furthermore, it is guaranteed – and this is also very important, because the change in law has been a serious change for many decades – that after a year the experience of the new assessment regulations should be evaluated. I think it is important for people with disabilities that this assessment is adopted today. I'm also glad that it's a five-party union. I will also make a request, another five-party request dealing with the cost compensation for the Chairman/Chairman of the Monitoring Committee: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to thank all the parties for the unanimous vote on this request. The Monitoring Committee is indeed doing excellent work for the UN Convention for people with disabilities and, above all, for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17844	The amendment tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17917	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17938	Madam President. Minister! High house! I am very pleased that it has succeeded in submitting this request concerning the Monitoring Committee, which is doing very good work, regularly tagging and has already produced very important principle papers for the inclusion and integration of people with disabilities. I believe that this is a good recognition of the valuable work being done here. I am now referring to the new estimate regulation. There has been a great change in the labour market in recent years. In particular, through the employment offensive of the Federal Government, there is a rich range of funding possibilities. Many disabled people, who did not think they were finding a job on the labour market, have found the possibility of employment – especially those with disabilities. The new estimate regulation also takes account of this development. The last estimate regulation dates back to 1965. That's a year before I was born, so some time ago. It has been high time for a new estimate regulation to come. But since so many proverbs have already been tried today, I would also like to say a proverb, namely: Imagine, there's a new estimate order and nobody's going! – It’s not an evil fiction that I’m sketching here, but it’s the reality. There are very many people with disabilities who simply can't be leveled anymore, who can't estimate the degree of their disability at the Federal Social Office because they have reduced opportunities in the labour market. The protection of termination represents the obstacle. Well meant is often the opposite of good. That's the way it is in terms of termination protection. He's an emotional obstacle to entrepreneurs. It must also be seen that the labour market has changed greatly. It has become more flexible, companies need to act more flexibly and workers also do not want to work for a lifetime in a job, they also want flexibility. There needs to be a change of time. That is why I appeal to the Minister of Social Affairs for his commitment to turning job protection into employment protection. Employment protection means looking into the future, not into the past, and trying to cut individually all the funding measures at the Federal Social Office to find a new job. It should be called: There's a new estimate order and everyone's going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e17987	Mr Hundstorfer has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18008	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As this work is unanimous, I would like to thank all those experts who have been active in the context of the fact that it is now possible – after 45 years – to present a new regulation here. I would like to thank the Federal Disability Advisory Council because it was a unanimous action in the Federal Disability Advisory Council, with all the political groups, with all the disabled associations, with all the other NGOs involved. I believe that we are on a path that is also concerned with the recognition of changes in diagnostics, changes in care resources, changes in working life, changes in modern treatment possibilities, that this is just what it gets. We have also agreed that the Federal Disability Advisory Council will jointly define the concept according to which it will be evaluated. That is to say, the concept of how we want to carry out the evaluation will be decided by the Federal Disability Advisory Council to ensure the involvement of those concerned. Finally, what Mr Huainigg said was true: It is not a secret that we have been negotiating over and over again for a few weeks on how we will deal with job protection versus employment protection in the future. I hope that it will be possible to present something to the public by the beginning of September at the latest, with a view to changing certain psychological barriers, which are currently in place, and to continuing on the issue of employment protection. We want to give people the opportunity to get more into work. I do not need to repeat what Mr Huainigg said: Many of the affected do not go to the Federal Social Office because they fear that they will not get a job then. We must overcome these barriers, we will overcome these barriers. I hope we can do this together with the economy over the summer months. I am firmly convinced that we will present this to the public in September. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18047	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18069	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said that this is a five-party matter. It is also a definitive improvement, especially because the care classifications are now being standardized and there are no longer different classifications within the Austrian federal territory, as unfortunately in the past God was always the case, especially since it was a law that was, so to speak, a remnant from the post-war period. A modern disability policy should really set itself the goal of implementing modern laws. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we are not yet quite satisfied, Minister of State. There are, of course, still many steps to be taken, especially in the field of disability policy. In my opinion, the new law lacks a care science approach. Although there is a medical classification, one could have gone a little further. So I hope that this will be further supplemented in the future. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] But what I would like to mention – and we have had a detailed discussion today in the debate on the first item on the agenda – are the savings to be made in the social field. Mr Federal Minister, I really appeal to you that these pitfalls of savings will not be used in exactly the same way as those people who cannot defend themselves at all, who have no lobby at all and who are among the weakest in society, namely, the disabled people, but that we really take money into our hands for these people, and that these people will pass through the savings measures that will also come from your place, even if we do not yet know them. I believe that this is an important sign and that dealing with the weak members of the society of a social state must be worthy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18109	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18132	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear colleagues! On the subject of assessment: That was a long work process, but it was once a very positive thing and it really happened something that had been necessary for a long time. But I miss something: You know, Austria has ratified the UN Convention, and it is precisely that we should take a new perspective and move away from the medical model to a social model. Unfortunately, the wording does not entirely include this new model, because the definition of disability we find in this law is, as it were, that of the difficult participation of people with disabilities in society. On the other hand, I would rather like to see a wording that allows for equal participation in life. That is a very important point. It is a question of percentage information, of the degree of disability. I want to show you my ID card. [[The speaker holds an orange ID.]] See that? This is my disability passport. Unfortunately, it's orange – I couldn't choose color for you. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Beautiful color!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not “sufferer ”!]] My ID contains the following: 80 percent. The 80 percent impact on my life – 80 stands here – does not include having a legal claim for sign language interpretation. That means, I still have to make a request – and maybe I will get an interpreter provided, but maybe not. This assessment is therefore an important step. In addition, however, we must consider – in the Federal Disability Equality Act and in the Federal Disability Act – that the degree of disability has quite an exact impact on the possibilities of funding and what kind of resources there is – speak sign language interpretation, personal assistance – so that a claim arises from it. The big goal is the inclusion of people with disabilities. Then you really enjoy this disabled pass, and it's not just an empty piece of paper. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A final point on evaluation. I see it is a very important point that the Federal Disability Advisory Council is here. However, when I created the law, I did not see any interested groups in the list. In other words, the disabled associations themselves were too little involved in the development. In my opinion, it should really be people with disabilities and those with no disabilities who are involved in the creation of such a law to the same extent. Not only are the percentages important, but it is important for people in everyday life to be able to share equal opportunities, that they are equally involved. What I wish for is a right to personal assistance and a right to sign language interpretation, because then it is really possible for us to be able to participate equally and equally in the field of work as well as in everyday life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18204	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18226	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the current legal situation, the assessment of the degree of disability by medical experts is based on the War Victims Care Act. As it is, this is about 45 years ago. Weitem is no longer in line with the present state of medical science and the requirements of today's working life. In principle, we welcome this amendment, the creation of the new assessment regulation for the determination of the degree of disability, because a reorganisation of this legal matter for people with disabilities has a broad scope, and it is hoped that this regulation will take place with the greatest possible involvement of the groups concerned, that consultation will also be held with the disabled organisations and that this will be done in the same way as they propose. The aim must be to carry out a holistic assessment, as this will allow for a better assessment of people's disability. Many people still have problems in applying for an assessment of the degree of their disability. There are many misunderstandings in the application for an disabled person's passport or in the application for membership of the population of the beneficiary disabled and so on. It would be important to simplify the application for people with disabilities, which would help them considerably. There are currently different responsibilities and authorities. However, there should be a central point of contact via the Federal Social Office, including in the federal states, then there would have been a lot to do with the concerns of disabled people. In other areas, such as those who operate a business, this possibility already exists. I am proud today and I am happy about it, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, that in this area, where people with disabilities are not so easy in life, we are making a five-party request, and I believe that we all in this House can be proud that we are doing something for these people. We will, in any case, agree to the charge for the activity in the Monitoring Committee. Sure, we're pulling a rope.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18271	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 770 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu, Members of Parliament have Königsberger-Ludwig, Dr. Huainigg, Mag. Mr Jarmer, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Kickl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment aimed at inserting a Z 1a in Art. 2 and a change in Art. 2 C 4 refers. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately leave the draft law and the title and receipt as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, Dr. Huainigg, Mag. Jarmer, Dolinschek, Kickl, colleagues. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – This is also voted unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:10:02]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (785 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the General Pension Act, the Notary Insurance Act 1972, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Federal Disability Equality Act, the Civil Service Law 1979 and the Pension Act 1965 are amended (Sozialrechts-Change Act 2010 – SRÄG 2010) (826 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18328	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18353	Mr President. Federal Minister! The present draft law is a wide range of adaptations to legal developments throughout the social security system. Among other things, it is intended to abolish the currently dominant double insurance scheme for persons who, in the context of skills measures for the unemployed, complete a training for the elevated health and health care service, because this double insurance is primarily responsible for labour market service as a fictitious service. However, allow me to take a closer look at an important point – there are 17 points ahead. There are and have been many people who make the decision to enter the public service as officials – not least because this, we say, does not involve a worse service relationship with many benefits to ASVG insured persons, for example, the unannounceability or a longer payment in case of sickness. Nevertheless, according to the pension insurance institution's communication in recent months, more and more pensioners who are still in a upright service have collected information as to when they can claim an ASVG-pension at the earliest possible time of termination of the public service relationship, and they have also made calculations of how high this ASVG-pension would be. The vast majority of these applications were logically submitted by persons for whom the change to the statutory pension scheme is particularly attractive because of the fact that they can retire five years earlier. Although, on average, the ASVG-pension, which comes to the payment, is lower than the rest as an official, obviously the personal benefits outweigh the fact that one can retire just five years earlier. In the event of such a transfer from the civil service service right to the ASVG, the public service provider shall, in accordance with the statutory provisions, make a small transfer to the competent pension insurance institution. However, if these cases were to continue, this would have a lasting one-sided and huge negative impact on the ASVG insurance community, because if you calculate this transfer amount at an average rate of 22 years, you can see that only gross pension benefits of three to five years are met. In any case, I also think it clearly contradicts the system that officials use the advantages of official service during their active hours, but then, if it is calculated in individual cases, simply because of the five years change the age of retirement to the ASVG system. This change should therefore be promoted by the present measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18398	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18419	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The majority of these proposed amendments to the 2010 Social Law Amendment Act are largely based on proposals and agreements by the social partners. What is actually being implemented? – Some points: The majority of the administrative reliefs, the prevention of double insurance, the abolition of obsolete provisions, general readjustments and clarifications are included, as well as the creation of a legal basis for the nationwide extension of the health road pilot project, particularly in the context of a uniform and binding identification of the working capacity of unemployed persons. We also decide on a regulation in the ASVG, which Mr Spindelberger has already mentioned and which I would like to deal with briefly, namely those who make a change of staff close to retirement age unattractive to the ASVG insurance system. How is this change made unattractive? – The transfer amount to be paid becomes legally effective only after five years. We have also adopted an amendment to the Committee which states that the termination of the service must be declared before the end of the day of the call and that this declaration will not take effect until six months after the receipt, unless the withdrawal is already before the 1st. ==References== Why this strong limitation and restraint? – It has already been addressed and also stated: This would have allowed up to 15,000 federal, regional and municipal staff to change. What exactly is it about? – It is about the much debated long-term insurance scheme and about the fact that, especially in the field of officials in the ASVG, a retirement pension was already possible at 55 years of age and, in some cases, it was tried to change, which of course would mean enormous additional costs for statutory pension insurance, especially for pension insurance institutions. From there, too, the urgent request and call for the legislator to accept closing this gap – I now call it a gap. A resolution was put in place by the Federal Chamber of Labour in order to deal with this subject as soon as possible. It would simply be unfair to all insured persons in the ASVG system who pay their contributions to the pension insurance institution if a lot of money had to be used for someone from another system because it changes into this system shortly before retirement. – This is actually the background: that it is made unattractive or that it is no longer carried out. I hope to understand the people concerned, because it must be clear that when you have paid your life into a system, you also have to comply with the guidelines and rules of this system. That is why we decide on this change, which I think is very important – also in order to be able to develop the pension system in the long term. I also do not want to say thank you for the unanimous decision on this matter as a whole. I believe that we really act as national councils, as legislators, to close this gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18468	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18489	Mr President. Federal Minister! As has already been said, this draft law is a five-party matter. I also think this is a very important way to go, because I believe that people who have taken official careers are not necessarily the disadvantaged workers, unlike many others who have been confronted with job interruptions, redundancies, unemployment. That is why I find it unfair to all other workers by those officials who have actually exploited this system – and I think it is a benefit. It is precisely the long-term insurance scheme, the so-called hackler scheme, which is always in the room for it to be abolished, because we cannot afford it, that is to say, to be used by those people who have not had a professional life where they have been able to rely on the fact that they are at least not threatened by termination. If you look at the figures, you can see that, for example, there were 3 500 to 6 000 people alone in the municipality of Vienna who inquired whether a breach of this system would be expected for them. If this were to be calculated, it would be up to 15,000 officials who would have benefited from this scheme. I mean, it's a good thing to stop this, because that actually goes beyond the meaning of the long-term insurance scheme. In addition, the ASVG system is taxed by people who have actually paid nothing in this ASVG system. It is therefore a good and important step that has long been overdue. It is therefore quite clear that we will vote in favour of this law, not least in view of the fact that the EU wants to postpone the retirement period much further. Mr Federal Minister, I think it is precisely in this context that we should consider what happens when it expires, and whether there is a possibility for people who have worked for 45 years – and I am speaking now not of officials but of people who have worked in the free economy. Mr Federal Minister, I believe that when these EU statements come, you as the Minister of Social Affairs are certainly required.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18526	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18548	Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens, too, will agree with the proposed legislation, which now concerns the possibility of breach or the conclusion of the gap. We also agree with the 2010 Social Rights Amendment Act as a whole, but I would like to draw your attention to two points. I'm going to take these civil service transitions to the ASVG. The problem I see in principle concerns the long-term insurance scheme per se. We have a long-term insurance scheme that would end in 2013, in which there must certainly be some form of continuation, but also a radical change. Where? – At the point where the long-term insurance scheme still provides for gender-specific age limits or periods of insurance. It's no longer sustainable, and it's not good for women either. You can now retire with 55 and 40 years of insurance or contribution years, the men only with 60 and 45 years of contributions. But in principle we have committed ourselves to letting go of these gender-specific rules when it comes to accession to the European Union, and the new right to pension is increasingly an obstacle to women, not yet. Now we have the situation that there is a gender-specific long-term insured scheme and a non-sex regulation in the public service and, so to speak, the rosin picking from it. I am convinced that those concerned are not just looking for their cheap advantage. She'll be there, too. But there will also be those who want to change for good reasons and whom we treat negatively, so to speak, punish. That's just a note. Second: I am just counting you – and this is an appeal to the Federal Minister – what we are now changing in the ASVG. We have a social law amendment law novelle, which we now decide. We have already decided on the Social Insurance Amendment Act Novelle, which was the minimum guarantee. Two amendments ASVG and accompanying laws. We decide on Friday a so-called 72. ASVG-Novelle and on Friday afternoon two further ASVG amendments. Five amendments to the ASVG on five different points without a connection. This is only possible in Austria on and off. It would be much better to sum this up from the systematics everywhere. With us, we now – apologise, but it is so – all possible small changes, the fuels that are left everywhere, into these social law-amending law-novelle, pack this together. The only substantial thing is this gap. And this is then a social law amendment law novelle! With confidence, this is a disaster for readability, which is a disaster for the legal subjects, but also for those who have to apply the ASVG and all the laws accompanying it. They get on a touch within a National Council meeting five different laws, five different amendments of the ASVG on five different topics. That's not good and it's urgently changed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18593	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18614	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is precisely this novel of the Social Rights Amendment Act that shows again very clearly and clearly that we still have too many different systems in our pension system. It clearly shows us that we have far too many special arrangements and privileges, and it also shows us that politics, and we are all called on to react too little quickly to the rising life expectancy, to the real situation. The problem becomes clear to you, considering that the number of insured persons is currently rising by 0.14 percent, that the number of pensioners is already 1.49 percent, that we already have a 37-year-pension period to 48 years, that the federal grant is constantly increasing, that we still have early pensions, especially in close-to-state businesses such as the ÖBB, that we are much too high old politi kerpensions have that we still have pension privileges in the National Bank and that there is no need for harmonisation with the federal system, especially in the countries and communities, and that there is also little incentive for people to stay in employment longer. This government template also deals with a special scheme, i.e. the long-term insurance or hacker scheme, and this is about closing a gap contained in it. I'm very glad we agreed here. We would certainly have agreed to this, because it is very important for me to say here that the so-called hackler regime is not a privilege, but is something for people who have worked and paid for 45 years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This was the original intention of the hacker scheme: When I pay 45 years of contributions to a system, I also have the right to retire. Only if there are gaps here, if one can switch from one system to another, if one chooses what one fits, then this hacker rule becomes a privilege. That is not what we want, and we will therefore also give this law our approval today. People who are in a public service relationship simply have advantages vis-à-vis ASVG insured persons. That's fact. And now, as an official, I can't get the benefits out of the ASVG system if I'm close to my retirement age, so to speak, to pick out the raisins. It has already been mentioned that there could be up to 15,000 officials, especially those from the countries and communities taking advantage of this, and we therefore welcome the fact that now a barrier, a waiting period, is being removed and the change of the system is no longer made so easy. It also contradicts any principle of equality that we should have achieved in the field of pensions. But it also shows us quite clearly that we face the great challenge of doing something in the pension system as quickly as possible. We need a pension system. We need flexible access to the pension. We need the possibility that people can decide for themselves when to retire, that they can decide for themselves and on their own responsibility. Those who work longer, therefore pay more, should also be rewarded accordingly. This is a model that we as BZÖ combine with our transparent pension account. Here would be a real need for action, which is very up-to-date and must be up-to-date, because we also need to remember today that we are giving the next generations a certain degree of security of their own retirement. But if we continue in this sense, then this security will be obsolete or nobody will believe from the boys that they will ever get a pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18678	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to go further on two points. The one point is part of the innovation, it concerns the health road. With this health road, I think, we can also make a contribution, a very small contribution, to administrative simplification. What is the background? – Two institutions decide to read a report together and to take note of it together. This administrative simplification brings a savings of €4 million in pension insurance. This little thing leads to the €4 million and should be an example of how you can continue here. Another point – unfortunately, Mrs Jarmer is not here now, but I would ask colleagues from the Greens to present it –: With this novelle, we also have the right to sign interpretation in social security law and to receive the costs for sign interpretation. What she asked before: A minute later, we decide already in the field of social security, social security procedures. [[Call the ÖVP: This is a pace!]] It's no faster than to make yourself here, order it, and get it fulfilled right away. - Nice side by side, we know it took longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] No, that does not cost anything, but that, in turn, helps people who have a special need to be cared for accordingly in their enforcement. Everything else has already been explained and I don't need to repeat here. However, I would like to conclude by saying: With the health road that we have now tested for a year in Lower Austria and in half Vienna, we have really made a contribution to making it faster and more economical now. And the depriving back and forth between AMS and pension insurance, workable/unworkable – I'm done right away, the match goes out; neither for me, dear Willi! –, it's over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18745	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18766	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on the subject of health roads, because I think this will be a good establishment. It is well known that last year there was an interesting project in this area in Lower Austria and in Vienna, within which well over a hundred colleagues have already completed this health road and where one can say under the line it has been successfully carried out. It is about the fact that in persons who have reported to the AMS unemployed and who have difficulties in job placement due to their health conditions, the AMS very often commissions various reviews, health examinations, which determine the possibilities of this colleague with regard to future job placement. Unfortunately, one finds very often in these investigations that there are very few opportunities for the people concerned. And it's very often said off the sides of the AMS: It would have failed for you if the AMS were no longer responsible for you and you would apply for invalidity pension or for a job incapacity pension in the competent pension insurance. The colleague then, of course, takes this step and goes to pension insurance. What's the pension insurance institution doing? – It starts again from the front. It is re-introduced, requires medical advice, a complete assessment of whether there is workability or incapacity for work. It will then be assessed whether the colleague can go into retirement, disability or incapacity for work. If he can go into retirement, of course it is done for the colleague concerned, if not, then you send him back to the AMS, and the difficult path starts again from the front. In the future, this health road will allow the AMS to instruct the PV to carry out the investigations, and the result of these studies will be binding on the AMS. This means that in the future the group concerned will only have to carry out a review or an investigation and that this result will be binding. For the group concerned, which is mostly older colleagues, who are often in a very bad health condition due to working conditions, this is not easy, indeed a very complicated matter. I therefore believe that this template is a very good one: The back and forth finally has an end. The colleagues concerned have relatively quick certainty. And this health road not only accelerates the process, there is not only more transparency, it not only eliminates double track and double reviews, but – and this is a particularly important point especially in times like this – it also results in financial savings of approximately €4 million. That is why this government template is in order. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18811	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. Vote on a draft law, title and receipt in 826 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Third reading vote: Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:36:13]] 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (754 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Banking Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007 and the Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act (802 d.b.) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (776 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Federal Law on the participation of Austria in the financing of the International Monetary Fund's lending to the poorest developing countries and amends the Federal Act on the performance of an Austrian contribution to the HIPC Trust Fund for the Debugment of Liberia (803 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (777 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on a bilateral credit agreement between the International Monetary Fund and the Oesterreichische Nationalbank (804 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (778 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Prevention of Double Taxation in Relationship to Areas Without International Subjectivity (DFG) (805 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18891	We come to points 12 to 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Weinzinger is the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18918	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, following the statements made by the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance in some statements by representatives of the government parties, we have heard that there are no or too few proposals on the part of the opposition. I was very surprised, for the following reasons: First: If I have been properly informed, some 600 uncompleted requests from the opposition are contained in the committees and their execution. Secondly, there is a government, and the opposition is not part of this government, otherwise we would have a concentration government and would do everything together, and that would not be entirely in the sense of democracy. However, I do allow myself to propose one thing to all the convoys that we are now dealing with under these agenda items. Now you have a proposal, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties and Mr State Secretary of the Government: a motion for a resolution which reads as follows: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government and, in particular, the competent Federal Minister for Finance are invited to forward to the National Council by December 2010 a government template providing for a separation of banking operations in commercial banks and investment banks.” Ladies and gentlemen, what is behind this serious intention? We have experienced a financial crisis. We have experienced a subsequent economic crisis. We have experienced a banking crisis. We have tied in incredible speed a bank package to secure the banks, with huge sums. We forge another bank security device across Europe at tremendous speed, because that was nothing else: The aid for Greece was an aid to banks, a security of banks. Why the whole thing? – Because our banks, including the large banks in Austria, have a little away from the path of virtue, if I may call it so. They suddenly believed that they had to play part in the international, worldwide game with speculations for a lot of money to infinitely much money. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Which one?]] That's what our banks have done. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Which one? Which one?]] - All bigger. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Mr Ikrath, I think that you can speak after me and I am not sure that is all that I have said, this is stupid. [[Call the FPÖ:Communal credit!]] I would nevertheless suggest that we separate banking at least in Austria from normal commercial banks and investment banks. I want the investment institutions to speculate around the world, internationally, on the international capital markets as they want, but our commercial banks are to carry out the activities for which they exist: Loans granted for the middle class, loans also for the private who want to build single-family houses or want to buy homes and similar, and loans, of course, also for the industry, but on a normal way and not on the speculation path. We want banks in which the deposits of our hard-working citizens, who save their lives, are actually safe and not secure in a lightning action, in an emergency action by the state with huge sums. We want normal commercial banks subject to the protection of our state. Whoever wants to speculate and who wants to enter into a risk business should know that he has to do this with any investment institution. This investment institution also has a risk, and if the risk is mis-estimated and managed – as it is so beautiful – it must, if it is wrong and in economic distress, be a normal insolvency for this. Then you just lost because you played up and played high. But our banks, in which our diligent citizens make their deposits in the form of savings books with as high interest rates as possible, and our banks, which lend our SMEs, our private citizens and our industry loans for investment, must not speculate. That's how we imagine it. I would therefore ask you to give our motion for a resolution our assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e18992	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19099	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19120	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the comments made by Mr Weinzinger, I would like to draw up the positive version of this draft law, which he has rejected. The positive thing is that we will now react to the financial crisis for the first time with regulatory measures and decide on them together, as I hope, together. The measures ahead of us in the implementation of this CRD-II-EU Directive will contribute to preventing such dramatic developments in the future as we have seen them. It is reasonable to limit the large credit risks of banks. It is reasonable to improve liquidity management. It is reasonable to recognise hybrid capital and to harmonise it across Europe. And it is certainly very reasonable to improve supervision, especially when banks act cross-border. It is also true that we set out stricter regulations precisely for those products, namely those securitised loans, which were one of those fires that then triggered this destruction. What I regret, I also say openly, is that the original intention of the EU that each issuer of such credit securitisation should keep at least 20 percent of the risk in his own books – therefore acting with a massive brake – was reduced to 5 percent by the lobbying activity of investment banks. I regret that. Now to my colleague Weinzinger and his idea. In principle, we share a central concern, namely the concern that the further regulations – Basel III, the establishment of resolution funds, deposit guarantee funds, liquidity schemes – could mainly affect the wrong ones, namely the solid banking model that we all said in the crisis, we need more of it in the future: Banks that accept deposits, transform deadlines and then lend loans to companies, i.e. the real economy. On the other hand, we wanted less of those banks that invest money in money that do not create value for the economy and consistently operate such investment banking operations that have given us the risks of the financial crisis. Unfortunately, the problem is that this clean separation, which Mr Weinzinger has called for, cannot be done in this form. That is why we have to deal with this more complexly and appropriately. In the future, we will have to consider all the regulations that Brussels is discussing – in the autumn we are going to the hot phase – whether they are actually putting on the urgently offered forced jackets or meeting the wrong ones, the retail banks, and thus only provoking those regulatory credit clamps that we in Austria, thanks to our banking structure, mean that the medium-sized country is almost only financed by the banking model that you, Mr Weinzinger, did not mean, so far, we have been able to master the crisis better than other countries. Such a regulatory credit terminal must be prevented. This will require a common great effort, and I am glad that we are there. My hope is that in this way we will get closer to the objective of regulation, namely to reduce the risk in investment banking and to strengthen those banks that finance the business world and thus secure growth and labour.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19159	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19180	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! All four draft laws now under negotiation concern financing, financial markets in the international context. Mr Ikrath has just carried out some blessings on the subject of financial market regulation, and I can say that we essentially agree with the legislative proposals, in particular those we are negotiating under points 12 to 14. We will not agree to the Federal Law on the prevention of double taxation in relation to areas without international law, a so-called double taxation law. Mr Ikrath – he is no longer present; yet, he is here – this contradicts what you used to say as reasonable. [[Call the ÖVP:But!]] [[Abg. Grosz: He's sitting so far back!]] The core of this draft law is a regulation allowing the Minister of Finance, in agreement with the Foreign Minister, to make arrangements to avoid double taxation in relation to areas without subjectivity of international law. What does that mean? – This means nothing more than that Austria is trying to position itself as a contact point for tax havens, that greyery and transparency are really being promoted, which we do not want in times like these. A brief comment from the OECD or the World Bank on so-called areas without subjectivity of international law: These are areas that have their own tax legislation, which deviates from the rest of the State territory, so-called Offshore Financial Centers. – This is something that the Minister of Finance rightly called harmful in the course of the debate in early summer 2009, and this is now being opened again. That's something we deeply reject. But I would like to speak on another point that we are supporting today and which we agree with because we consider the tendency in today's law to be a right one: the law to support the IMF to force the support of the poorest developing countries at all. However, we would like to draw attention to the fact that bilateral support, direct support from Austria for the developing countries and also for the international organizations of the UN in development cooperation is very poor. Austria currently supports 0.3 percent of the gross domestic product, and the target is set at 0.7 percent by 2015. We already know that this will be difficult or impossible if there is not a great rise and solidarity is shown; I also address my colleague Petra Bayr, who is very active in this area. Especially the poorest developing countries are meeting the financial crisis very hard, and especially the poorest developing countries are particularly affected by climate change and suffer very much. It is therefore urgent to take the appropriate steps and say: Yes, we stand for solidarity, we stand on international responsibility, we will increase the funds accordingly. But in view of how the debate on the budget, how the debate on the federal financial framework will take place by 2014, it should be feared that the poorest of the poor will be made a victim again and that they will have a say in the future. The Austrians always show themselves from the best side with their donations – I think the government should also take a similar step. I think it is time to draw up a stage plan which clearly defines what the resources will look like in order to actually achieve the Millennium Goals and thus help developing countries or people in developing countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19233	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19254	Mr President. Mr State Secretary – he is not present right now! Mr Ikrath has already highlighted the essential points, so I can limit myself to an addition to the intensification of the provisions which he has already mentioned. We would have liked the European rules to be even more stringent among issuers. If you issue papers, you should also take an essential risk yourself. It was also one of the fires of this crisis: papers have been emitted and those who have issued them have nothing more to do with it or have already speculated against it at all. – Part one. Part two: We held a long debate on the IMF in the Committee, of course, with the Members of the Liberal Group. – No question, some of the IMF’s decisions in recent years, even one and a half decades, have been to the detriment of the Member States that were forced to take advantage of aid. But the IMF was now extremely helpful in the months and years of the crisis. He was ready to jump in, he is also now at the Bail-out for Europe as a whole, for the Eurozone with 250 billion. We therefore support this and, in particular, measures that help those countries that are in an even more difficult situation, including Liberia in this case. In this connection, I would like to say to my predecessor: It is precisely the debt measures that have given us higher values in the past and help these countries come back to orderly finances. We are expressly committed to supporting the HIPC countries accordingly. Last point: Taiwan. – I have also been very skeptical about the authorisation of the regulation, but there is no other solution. Our companies are at a disadvantage when they are subject to double taxation. How to solve the problem? - That's, please, no tax haven. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] It's not meant for tax havens. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But it is a kann-destination!]] We will be very careful to ensure that it is not. It is an opportunity to introduce a double taxation scheme with Taiwan, so we have done so. Please understand. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: No!]] Last point: motion for a resolution. – Mr Weinzinger, this is the Bretton Woods system. Sir Keynes proposed this there in 1944, and it also took a long time in the USA: the separation of Savings and Loan, from normal banks and investment banks. I think we have to go a lot further. The entire banking sector, including investment bank, belongs to the capital markets secured by a firewall. You may not play for yourself; even the employees in the casino may only throw the ball, but do not set it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19318	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19339	Mr President. High house! We have already talked a lot about the crisis today. The Minister of Finance, the Government and many others believe that this crisis is already over. There is great relaxation, because this crisis is supposed to be over. But I can tell you: This crisis is not over! It is not over, and it is not because on the horizon the first signs of the next wave of this crisis appear. When I look at why we are experiencing this intervening recovery, I can say that is only because we have put billions and billions of dollars in economic programmes and are now experiencing a mini-resurrection, but that will be over at the latest in autumn or the end of the year. And then this crisis will come back, and it will meet us even more brutally than we have already experienced. Some here will be surprised. But if you look at the early indicators, no one should be surprised. For example, the Baltic Dry Index – which is the world's freight rates index – has dropped most in recent months within six years. In other words, it is virtually nothing transported on the world seas in recent months. This is an early indicator, which is about three to six months ahead and will ultimately lead us to where many economic experts already suspect, namely, the second wave of the financial and economic crisis. That is why it would be very much time to do the homework. I know, of course, that many here believe that the economic crisis is like a tsunami that comes upon us like a storm that cannot be affected. But that's not right. We only need to look at countries like Canada, which have come through this crisis relatively well. Why did they get through this crisis? – Because they have done the homework because they have in good times laid down for bad times. Our government has not managed to do this, but this does not prevent us from doing the homework now and preparing, with structural programmes, for the next wave of this crisis, to put in place appropriate economic recovery programmes in order to counter this crisis. That's what we expect. And you certainly don't expect us to put the head in the sand and just don't do anything. If I look at our administration apparatus, I have to say that there would be unlikely many possibilities. There is an administrative crack that could be loosely cut off half of the arms and which would still work. We are overmanufactured, we have structures that might have been installed 100 years ago. I'm just saying, District Headquarters. They were built in such a way that one day one could ride back and forth with a horse car. All of this is no longer contemporary. That is, we have to put our administration radically on solid feet. We need to do our homework. We must try to save expenditure in order to be able to meet this second wave that is guaranteed. One thing is also quite certain: There are many who warn; very, very many. International experts also warn that this second wave will come – and we stand there with worn pants. We have nothing more to do with this crisis. And now I'm asking you: What do people want from us? That we're just doing nothing about how this second wave overwhelms us? Or do they want us to do our homework here in Austria to collect at least something in reserves and counter this crisis? – You can give the answer yourself. I think we as politicians have a great responsibility here, and if we go to the summer break now and nothing will happen again and we will put the budget on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, when this crisis will be there, some will ask: What did you do? And we have to say nothing. And that's sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19391	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19412	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! This amendment to the Banking Act and the Securities Act implements maximum harmonisation of existing EU directives, which is absolutely close to the directive. This implementation will address important issues, I will focus on the banking sector and the financial sector. There have already been very, very many points, but I would like to mention a few things, such as the cross-border cooperation between the supervisory authorities of credit institutions and more and more stringent requirements for securitisation – these will be tightened by holding back some of the securities from the issuer – and improving liquidity risk management. This package of measures will respond to the financial crisis on the one hand and strengthen the financial market on the other. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These measures, with this change in law, will take another important step in the right direction so that even more security, more control and more cross-border cooperation in the banking sector, in the financial sector, can be made possible and trust in the financial sector can be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19445	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19467	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== September 2008 happened in New York? ==References== In September 2001, you remember the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York. ==References== September 2008 there is a similar one there, I would like to say, sea and earthquakes for the financial world: ==References== September the second largest investment bank in the world, Lehman Brothers, has had to register insolvency according to the American Section Chapter 11. What happened? The financial crisis, the subprime crisis, and so on, has more and more captured the banks, and after weeks of negotiations between U.S. Finance Minister Henry Paulson and the CEO, in German Chief Executive Officer, Lehman Brothers, Richard Fuld, a deadline has been reached where the American Finance Minister, who was a death enemy of Richard Fuld – you have to know – has not continued during the negotiations. What did the Minister of Finance learn? – He once found out who the principal believers of Lehman Brothers are, and after seeing that the main believers are sitting in Europe and Asia, he turned his thumbs down, locked the rescue billions of the American state for Lehman Brothers and thus sent Lehman Brothers to the Orcus of the financial world. As a result of this crash, which was triggered despite a “too big to fail”, it was a damage that is not yet quantifiable. It is between $75 billion and $200 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we could say: What is the interest of us if an American investment bank becomes insolvent when it goes bankrupt? Does it even need investment banks? – The questions are right, I ask myself. But that's got a hook when I say, I don't care! because these investment banks were business-related to many, many banks, including commercial banks, all over the world, and the impact has been very strong in Europe, but also in Austria. Think of municipal credit AG: ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website Ask our Minister for Education, Dr. Claudia Hase – Klammer: knows nothing, before forging; Clamp to – which from 2004 to 2007 was managing director in the municipal credit and has launched large speculation wheels via Cyprus, up to €16 billion! The consequences of this insolvency, this collapse of municipal credit, are still borne by Österreichische Volksbanken AG, which cannot serve billions of participation capital against the Republic of Austria in terms of terms of terms or dividends. Ladies and gentlemen! The lesson from this must be that investment banks are strictly separated from business banks, as we call for in our motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I invite you to agree. The investment banks are supposed to do what they want, they can do any business, only one they have to do: They must alert their customers to the risk. However, the commercial banks have to operate the normal banking business, collect deposits, issue them as loans to the economy, to the private sector, and settle payment transactions. Business banks should be under supervision and under the protection of the State, but, as Mr Matznetter has said, they must also raise a firewall between them. It must no longer be possible for commercial banks to refinance investment banks and then fall around their money, just as ÖVAG did, and it must no longer be possible for commercial banks to buy and believe so-called investment bank products so that the big profits can be made. It was the same with the municipal credit. Finally, she had so-called toxic papers in the balance sheets, and so did the municipal credit, like many other banks, for example in Germany – I remember the Hypo Real Estate, which so far had to receive over €100 billion of state money from the Federal Republic of Germany; that was the former German base deposit that speculated so much. Ladies and gentlemen, once again: Voices President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We can also do this in Austria: a separation between investment banks and commercial banks. There must be some detangling, taking back loans, returning securities, and then we can secure our commercial banks, for the benefit of our domestic, national economy, and anyone who wants to go to investment banks can do so, but must be aware of the risk. In this sense, I would like to ask you to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19542	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19563	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to share with you a few thoughts about the HIPC Trust Fund, where we are involved in Liberia's debt. I think that debt relief measures are generally a very sensible measure to help states that are highly indebted and wherever it is politically appropriate to repay them, to help them out of this eerie mess, to pay for interest and interest interest forever, forever and forever, and never to repay the substance of their debts. There are calculations according to which, due to these interest rates and interest rates, the fourfold sum of that flows from the south to the north, which flows from the north to the south to development funds. In any case, then, it makes sense to break up these debt traps and give countries the opportunity to get out of this eternal dependence. It also needs, of course, other accompanying measures. Only with debt will no development be possible as long as there is no equality between the methods “weapons” on the trading markets. That is, a fair world trade would bring a lot of potential, opportunities and opportunities to developing countries. And discharges – it has been mentioned briefly – are also very important for Austria, because we have kept our official development assistance numbers relatively well with the debt payments so far. Up to two thirds of our ODA numbers were debt payments, which is far too high in international comparison; no question at all. Much more useful than saving in debt, it is natural to spend money on designable development cooperation, and I do not want to say, as the Foreign Minister does, that we spend 0.7 percent of our gross national income on development cooperation by 2015. I consider this to be an important and politically appropriate measure, and I am also very excited about what Austria will be reporting to the European Union in the summer of 2015 on how we will plan our stage in the direction of 2015 with 0.7 percent for development cooperation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19604	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19660	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present government template provides the national basis to exclude double taxation and allows for trade and economic relations with foreign territories with tax jurisdiction, Mrs Colleague, but without subjectivity of international law. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: A delicate subject, Mrs. Colleague! Hectic!]] We already assume that we decide on laws that allow our economy to make contacts with countries like these and not to be taxed twice, and we do not expect it to be used exclusively to do so, just as you have noted, that you can park the money somewhere black. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: These are pure kan destinations! Open the door and gate!]] – Mrs Colleague, let us do this, let us make the law work; we will control it, and then we can all improve it again. We have laws in Austria, and there were laws in Europe, and there is the financial crisis despite all the laws we have ever made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19711	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the Committee's proposals. First of all, to vote on the draft federal law amending the Banking Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007 and the Corporate Employees' and Self-Employee Prevention Act, together with the title and receipt in 754 of the Supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask you to give a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the separation of banking operations. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. We come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends a federal law on Austria's participation in the financing of the International Monetary Fund's lending to the poorest developing countries and the Federal Law on the performance of an Austrian contribution to the HIPC Trust Fund for Liberia's debt, including the title and receipt in 776 of the supplements. If You are for this, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask you to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Next, we shall vote on the draft federal law on a bilateral loan agreement between the International Monetary Fund and the Austrian National Bank, including the title and receipt in 777 of the supplements. If you're for this draft, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. If you also agree to the draft at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is decided by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall be voting on the draft double taxation law and the title and receipt in 778 of the supplements. I'm looking for an acceptable sign. – This is decided by a majority. If you agree to the draft at third reading, I ask you to vote. – This was accepted by the majority at the third reading. [[18:14:38]] 16. Point Report by the Financial Committee on motion 1196/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which a federal law on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No. 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 March 2009 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure relating to the expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure 17. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1195/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law on the acceptance of liability for the exhibition “Michelangelo. Drawings of a genius’ (807 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19840	We come to points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19867	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The CRA is required to ensure that the EU Regulation on credit rating agencies is effective, and thus the European Union is introducing a new supervisory system for credit rating agencies. We welcome this and will support it in this form. At the same time, of course, there is a good opportunity at this point to discuss what has happened for almost two years since the outbreak of the crisis. Finally, it is about answering three major questions: The first question is: Who pays for the crisis? The second question is: What are the ways out of the crisis? And the third question is one, which is discussed at European level several times over and over again, but in Austria essentially has a shadow existence, namely: How do we prevent the next crisis? Of course, this also depends on how to deal with the various and large areas. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, we would like to take advantage of the opportunity today, since you are always a part of the Financial Committee to ask you to give us information about where the initiatives of the Republic of Austria are, for example, in establishing a powerful European financial market surveillance system. This is one of the essential points that would actually ensure the stability of the financial sector and, of course, what it is all about with the obligation to approve certain financial products. What is it like to impose restrictions or bans on particularly speculative instruments and purchases? Or: What about establishing an independent EU-wide credit rating agency? And then there are also the major issues that concern Austria, and I come to one that concerns in particular consumers in Austria, namely the reform of the financial service assistant. After the outbreak of the crisis, it was agreed that there should be an appropriate regulation, but so far we do not see progress, we do not recognize any measures that have been taken. In the long term, consumers will also be protected in this very sensitive market. So a lot of questions. Laws will be passed which, as you did in the previous law, in turn create transparency in the market, in turn opening back doors, something we do not want in this form. So, Mr State Secretary, explain how far Austria is actually active in terms of control, transparency and regulation of international and national financial markets.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19912	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e19934	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A proverb says: The success is a lot of fathers. With regard to the financial crisis, one could also say: A crisis has many fathers. I would just like to highlight one point. One of the fathers of this crisis was undoubtedly the rating agencies. When we remember how the whole financial crisis has been triggered: It wasn't the only cause, but the trigger was that the Americans finally packed lazy mortgage loans in securities, provided with beautiful names, such as asset-backed securities, American rating agencies gave up triple-A – and it was sold all over the world, in the belief that there really is Triple-A inside. Two weeks before the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers: Triple-A! If you know this, you say that there is an urgent need for action regarding the credit rating agencies, which obviously belong to the line taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our problem is, as a small country, we cannot do this alone. International solutions are needed, and I am glad that the EU not only has a directive that we are now adopting into national law, but is already preparing for a second EU directive to be controlled by the credit rating agencies. I am fully in line with the responsible Commissioner Barnier, who says: First: We need a European credit rating agency. Secondly, Rating agencies must be independent. Thirdly, They must disclose their assessment criteria. Fourth: There is a ban on advice and rating, because it cannot be said that the person who is advised and pays for it is the same, especially in view of the effects, the ratings for countries, but also for securities. In this sense one can say: It's just a small step, but it's a real step. I assume that at the beginning of the year there will be a new EU regulation, which we will probably adopt next year in our national law. Again: This is a small step that is undoubtedly necessary. And here I am also the opinion of Mr Hans-Werner Sinn from Munich, who said that the credit rating agencies are obviously under one ceiling with the investment banks. And there's a need for action. We are taking the first step today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20001	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20022	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to repeat in plenary my criticism, which I have already expressed in committee on this second “Lex Schröder” – that is what we can call it. This is about liability for renting goods from foreign countries for exhibitions. First, we have to go back and think about what there is a basic fee for. The basic fee has been made in the course of the dissemination of the federal museums, because the state has said that each museum should receive a certain sum of money and thus operate properly while the state withdraws, and it is the responsibility of every federal museum to carry out all that is properly needed for a federal museum at all. That makes sense in itself. It does not make sense if the Federal Museums beat the strands on every occasion and plan far beyond this basic fee. This started about six years ago our “famous” director Seipel, who then made it so far that the government has agreed to its consideration, could be set up something like a common pool in the order of a billion and then all federal museums could obtain additional insurance liability from this pool. That was six years ago. And two years ago, Director Schröder put one more on it and said: That's too little for us! I have an individual exhibition, the Van Gogh exhibition, where I need an additional liability in the order of € 500 million on the part of the federal government! Ladies and gentlemen! I warned at that time – it was exactly two years ago – that only because something never happened, one should not believe that then one day a damage does not actually occur. And in the order of €500 million, that would be huge. Such a thing can be quite true at an individual exhibition. With a pool of one billion, divided into all museums, this is much less possible, but at a single exhibition it can be quite certain. And even such accidents abound. That's why I said: That's so similar... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Mr Molterer, I have already explained this to you in committee: It's similar to you saying: It never happens to me, so it doesn't matter if I don't insure my car, because I've never had anything to do with it, and that's why nothing can happen to me in the future! On the contrary, it is: The more often you drive by car and the more expensive the car is, the more dangerous the whole thing becomes. And there are insurances for that! As Mr Matznetter, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, has said that we are the defenders of an insurance lobby, I must say to him: This is completely wrong, because then you have to be absolutely against every insurance! It's about covering the big risk with little effort. But of course, at the expense of the general public, we can also take the great risk directly. And that's exactly what we're doing! Two years ago, I noticed something, and I said, In two years it will be so far again, the next director will come, and then it is not the Van Gogh exhibition, but another solo exhibition! It was the Michelangelo exhibition. And so my prediction immediately arrived. I have warned of something else, namely that from this point on, the museum directors will come more and more often with demands for increasing amounts. In fact: The current amount is already 550 million €. And sometime it happens – and then it wasn't anyone! Then it pays the general public anyway. No one knew anything and no one was involved in anything. We are gradually approaching this danger. There is a basic fee, with which the museum directors and museum directors have to operate – and everything else is an unnecessary risk that we are putting ourselves off! Anyway, I warned about it. Please don't say that it wasn't you when it really happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20099	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20120	I am reluctant to correct the EIA's financial spokesman, but it is not about implementing a directive, it is about a regulation. The only question of the European Union's credit rating agency regulation is to determine who can impose penalties in Austria. And so that these are not the main district teams and therefore not representatives of all the main district teams go to Brussels for the preparatory seminar, but only one post, namely the FMA, we want the FMA as the authority responsible for this. The penalties in there are admittedly meagre. However, this is not a problem in that the next regulation is in preparation and one has to expect that these penalties in the new regulation are likely to be increased to a thousand times. This is not a problem for the six months, especially because there are no credit rating agencies in Austria, and therefore there will probably be no penalties in this half-year. Otherwise, I would simply like to say to my colleague stupidly because he criticized this at lunchtime: I understand that he is a Lower Austrian MP, and that is why he must approve of what is happening in Lower Austria, but that he now also thinks in a kind of bird-strout policy that no money would have been lost, I was very surprised. The Court of Auditors, an institution of the National Council, has found that almost € 1 billion has been speculated on housing funds alone. If we no longer believe in the Court of Auditors – if the head of state of Lower Austria acts as if this had not happened, that is one thing – if members of the National Council do as if the Court of Auditors could not expect, I am afraid. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] One must also be able to say politically: 1 billion € has been speculated! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] And the consequences of it must draw the Lower Austrians. We are waiting for a table to be made at last, because that can't be taken without finding out. That's really scandalous! And this goes far beyond that, because the same thing happened to environmental funds and bank funds, et cetera. We are waiting for a table to be made in Lower Austria at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20171	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20194	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! We vote for the acceptance of liability for the exhibition in the Albertina „Michelangelo. Drawings of a Genius’. We all know that the Albertina is the largest and most significant graphic collection in the world. It is also the largest scientific department in the world. And Michelangelo is – we know that too – one of the greatest artists in human history. He was not only sculptors, but also painters, architects and scientists. Michelangelo, however, has left great works of art – and this is the reason why this exhibition is taking place. And that is why we believe that the Albertina, because it is now a graphic collection, is the best place where this exhibition can take place, and the best place, I would say, in the whole world where you can present these works. This exhibition is also in line with the reputation of Austria as a country of culture. It is therefore of course for us that Austria assumes liability, because – and that is what we should say – not only the works from Albertina are shown, but also the works from other European museums, from American museums and also from private collections. As a result, many people can see the works of Michelangelos. And I can only say: I wish this exhibition much success!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20225	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20246	Mr President. High house! We also want stricter guidelines for credit rating agencies. We welcome this law, which, as Mr Krainer said, is not a big throw, because we do not have credit rating agencies and, secondly, we do not really have epochs in this law. Nevertheless, we believe that this is a step in the right direction. But in the course of this, we should also talk about other things, namely that we need a European Monetary Fund – we have heard it today – which is free of influences, which is not money from those he is supposed to evaluate. We also need equality in terms of speculation with regard to work. It is true that the person who generates money with work is taxed up to 50 percent, while someone who lets his money work for himself comes away with 25 percent or nothing at all. And that must be done! In other words, we need a speculation tax which takes exactly that into account and which includes every speculation where profits stand in income tax. That would be fair and fair. We also need a functioning financial market and, above all, a functioning financial market surveillance system. This has not worked at all in the past, not only in Austria, but also internationally. And what we need in particular is an insolvency scheme for banks, where we can manage the system accordingly, and not risk the whole system. We also need the same for states, as we have seen from the example of Greece. We should have let Greece argue that this would have been more reasonable. If we had determined a reasonable solution, we would have made it this way. could not have been so negative for Greece and should not have been a disaster for international banks. That is why we need an insolvency system, which also includes states. Last but not least, we need strong sanctions for countries that are in the euro zone and do not comply with the rules of the game. We have experienced that Greece has done just that. We knew that already in 2006. Even the ÖVP already knew in 2006 that Greece does not comply with the rules of the game, and yet it has been granted – with the consequences that we all know today. That is why we need sanctions for those who do not comply with the rules of the game. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now a brief comment on the matter of insurance, because here some are so vehemently opposed that the State assumes liability there. The state does not guarantee itself in the large area. That means that many federal buildings are not insured. And that has the simple reason that the state itself acts as an insurance company and saves itself the administrative costs of an insurance and the profits of an insurance. In principle, this costs a lot, less the cost of saving yourself. It also works when the state is liable for paintings that the federal museums do not have to insure. This is a zero-sum game for taxpayers, where at the end of the bill there is even a plus because we are saving ourselves, so to speak, the profits of insurance and administrative fees, since the state itself acts as an insurer and ultimately, when a damage occurs, then also comes into the drawing, but it saves itself over the years by not paying insurance premiums. That's exactly the point! And that's why it makes sense for the state not to be insured in many areas, but to act as insurance itself. This is common practice, and therefore I do not understand why some of the Greens find this terrible. Because, as I said, This is an advantage for the taxpayer! And that must, I believe, ultimately interest us: that it will become cheaper for the taxpayer. That is why I can imagine that very, very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20322	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20347	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! By adopting this law, we are implementing what the regulation of the European Parliament and of the EU Council has stated, it is almost included in Austrian law. Some things have been outlined today, which would be necessary for future collateral: improved supervision, appropriate legal provisions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to thank you for your support. Keywords: Lehman Brothers, “beautifully” packed securities, and in Europe some of the greed of bankers. I remember – as a complement – that, above all, West German banks, indeed country banks, thought that the small and medium-sized industries should be returned to the market, because these real estate finances and investment areas could be made even better – with the effects that are known to us! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that this will in the form of all these laws – and may still be so sharp and well formulated by a supervisory authority – will give all the guarantees in the future. It would be more important to remind some bankers of the fact that if they are immeasurable, vain or greedy, they will be called away. Furthermore, we should really consider whether it is useful to allow credits in millions of heights, as they are sometimes given. This should be abolished, because this only prejudicates the short-term success so to speak. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Weinzinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit I have to smile when I think about the following: Some banks in Austria, which made their business more conservatively, have been smiled for years. In Germany too, it was. The former Federal President, who had recently resigned from his office, was once head of the IMF. He was relatively openly criticized in a remarkable interview because he explained that West German savings banks were criticized because they could not generate revenues between 10 and 15 percent. How should such a thing go with an economic growth of only 3 per cent? That is why one has tried to make profits through speculative transactions in order to be able to giant domestically as well. The same applies to the Austrian municipal credit. Some local representatives will remember how the offers of savings banks and raiffeisen banks were undercut by others, so that some of them asked themselves: You can't do it yourself? But to balance these deficits, one has speculated internationally – with the well-known result. I confess to this law, but doubt that it is the final conclusion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20401	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20422	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You are right, of course, and this can only be a small step in the right direction, because that three American credit rating agencies are practically dividing the entire market, is only an indication of a corrupt system, and on the other hand, we must do something across Europe, not only as regards credit rating agencies and misdevelopments, but also as regards the causes of the crisis. This means that in a conservative Europe we must not simply reject ourselves and, after the crisis, act as if it were before the crisis. And here it will be very essential to fight for new rules, namely closed as the Austrian Federal Government, that is, the Minister of Finance together with the Federal Chancellor. The Minister of Finance is asked not to fight alongside Angela Merkel, but for Austria: for new rules of play, for a new financial market architecture and for a new democratic justice within Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20453	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20474	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My colleague, Mr Unterlander, has already said that we will agree to the acceptance of the liability for the Michelangelo exhibition. We therefore agree with one of the two points of the agenda which is now under discussion. As a tourist speaker of my group, it is obvious that we will vote for this acceptance of liability, but the Van Gogh exhibition in Albertina alone has already shown that the numbers of visitors who have been speeded up justify any acceptance of liability for this exhibition. – As far as the Michelangelo exhibition is concerned. We will not vote in favour of the CRA, not because we would not agree with the basic intensification of the EU regulation, no, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague, Mr Stumvoll, said earlier that the international credit rating agencies have specifically hit the Triple-A on the Asset Backed Securities and two weeks before the Lehman bankruptcy on Lehman Bank and that they are guilty of the subprime crisis by their irrantious approach. We share this view fully and, in large part, also what Mr Auer has said. But I believe – and now I am with what Mr Krainer said – that it is not just about preventing, by means of this credit rating agency enforcement law that the district authorities must drive to Brussels to punish, evaluate or monitor any credit rating agencies that will not exist or will not exist, because there will be no Austrian credit rating agencies. No, you make it too easy, that's only half the truth. The whole truth is as follows: The issue of the EU Regulation is that international credit rating agencies should be registered with European securities regulators if they want to have a seat in Europe and if they want their ratings to be used across the EU. This will be decided by the Colleges of the respective competent State Securities Regulatory Authorities. That's why: They want to transfer these agendas to financial market supervision, the FMA. And to that we say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just this FMA, as we have seen in the past – I just remember Auer von Welsbach, Hypo, municipal credit, BAWAG, Meinl – is already overwhelmed in the country. What is the need for it only if it is transferred to international agendas?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen! This will go into the pants, and that is why we are not at our disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20525	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20547	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To the credit rating agencies, stupid, Auer and others have already said the necessary. One thing I would like to repeat, even if this should become a Ceterum Censeo over the next few months or perhaps even years, that we in Austria think most of it: Firstly, a European credit rating agency is needed. Secondly, If you do not want the International Monetary Fund as a saviour in the matter of Greece and the Euro Rescue Screen, you will also have to say something like a European Monetary Fund. Both projects are not easy to realize. Vienna is one of 27 capitals here, that is not a question at all, but I think it always needs such statements, even here in the National Council, to confirm this position. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Because, with Mr Zinggl, I have not at all agreed with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: The Saliera wasn't insured. The world's largest collection of Brueghel paintings in the Art History Museum is not insured. The federal cars are not insured. For good reason, the Federation here is its own insurer. That is why it is absolutely logical to take over insurance for a project such as the Michelangelo exhibition from the Federal Museums – no matter if this is a Mr. Seipel, Mr. Schröder or anyone else – for which we do not overly generous equipment of our federal museums. By the way: According to the individual object, it is €100 million, Mr Zinggl. Looks like: That makes absolutely sense, that is practiced practice, and your position – with engagement, a little polemizing – sounds like a lobbyist's first order of the insurance industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20598	Mr Zinggl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr Colleague, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. 2 minutes speaking time max. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20622	Mr Bartenstein has just said that the Saliera was not insured. – That’s wrong! The Saliera was insured at Uniqa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20650	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20671	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Agenda item 17, Liability for the Michelangelo exhibition: There was a similar acceptance of liability, which was already mentioned, at the Van Gogh exhibition. They visited the 590,000 interested, a daily section of 6 202 visitors was counted. Nine weeks after the opening of this exhibition, the number of visitors increased to 450 000 was reached. The Picasso, Rubens and Dürer exhibitions were exceeded at Weitem, partly doubling the number of visitors. As a member of the federal government, I would like to congratulate all those who contribute to the positive tourism figures in Vienna. These figures are remarkable: In 2009, Vienna ranked ten million stays behind the European cities. From February to April this year, an increase of 13 percent was achieved. This interest in Vienna must be strengthened to present offers, broad offers at the highest level, further. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the question of whether major events go at the expense of smaller or even at the expense of young talents, young artists. – For these talents throughout the federal territory, in all the federal states, including in my region, for example, the promotion of films for young filmmakers increased from €374,000 in 2008 to €645,000 in 2009 and thus enormously. It is already €616 000 with July 2010. Coming to the end: This acceptance of liability does not go at the expense of others, but strengthens the cultural and economic location of Vienna and Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20707	Next speaker: Mr. State Secretary Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20729	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have spoken because Mr Lichtenecker has raised specific questions to me, namely: What is Austria doing in Europe to achieve a strong financial market surveillance? What is Austria doing to get to a European credit rating agency? – So far the questions, and now my answers. The first point: You can read in all the minutes of the Council working groups how active we are. We are actually active here, and Austria has always been one of those countries that have been particularly committed to truly strengthening European supervisory authorities. In addition, I should like to point out that on Tuesday we will be discussing precisely these questions in the EU Subcommittee, where I will be happy to provide you with much more detailed information. The second point: As far as the seat of the credit rating agencies is concerned, we do not now see it as so essential where this seat is, but is the crucial point: How can we effectively monitor these credit rating agencies? . The current regulation, which has already been addressed, is an important step in this direction. We support at European level in Brussels all further regulatory measures that will be taken and which are already under way. So far as the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Austrian Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20762	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20783	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I'm dealing with the credit rating agency enforcement law. We are implementing an EU regulation here today which makes it possible for us to examine the powers of the credit rating agencies. In particular, financial market supervision is also instructed accordingly, and the legal requirements for financial market supervision are created in order to be able to act accordingly. All of us have had to experience in a sad way the role played by international credit rating agencies in the financial crisis. That is why it will be important to install a European instrument here that these credit rating agencies are also controlled accordingly. We are taking a right step forward from the European Union. Finally, I would like to mention that Europe as the second largest economy in the world in the future must, of course, create an international independent credit rating agency in Europe. It cannot be assumed that only American agencies always give us the reviews and make them. I believe that this is a first and important step forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20823	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. We shall vote and vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Mr Krainer will also vote in favour. [[Abg. Krainer goes from the government bank, where he spoke with Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka, to his seat.]] First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law, which provides for a federal law on the effective functioning of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 May. September 2009 will be adopted on credit rating agencies and the Financial Market Supervisory Act will be amended, including the title and receipt in 806 of the Supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. If you agree to this at third reading, I ask for your sign. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. The vote on the draft federal law on the acceptance of liability for the exhibition “Michelangelo. Drawings of a genius’, including title and entry in 807 of the Supplements. If you join him, I'll ask for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I would ask for a sign of your approval. - That's the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[18:51:36]] 18. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (752 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2010 (798 d.a.) 19. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (775 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act, the Federal Budget Act and the Federal Budget Act 2013 (799 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20903	I call on points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The report has been abandoned. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e20930	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We were really shocked when we read the Court of Auditors’ report on success, which must be quoted as a starting point, about the efforts of the ÖBFA, which has the legal mandate to create the necessary liquidity for the State on the best possible terms. Long report by the Court of Auditors, short meaning of this long report: Due to insufficient scattering and due to the beginning of the subprime crisis, we have up to 616 million € in poor Structured Investment Vehicles. [[Abg. Krainer: You have agreed to the legal requirements for this!]] . I know, Mr Krainer, you say that only €380 million of this has so far been lost irrevocably. [[Abg. Krainer: No! You have agreed to the legal regulation!]] Every cent is too much, my colleague. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes! You made it possible!]] The state should carry out its sovereign duties and not use tax money to speculate, to speculate wildly! [[Abg. Krainer: Budget Support Act 2003!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Krainer, I have already heard it – and so that the others also hear it: Mr Krainer said that we could have done this. – Mr Krainer, we have not been able to do so. On the contrary, if I look at what your answer is in this proposal for a law, which you present to us here, four-eye principle and the like – Mr colleague, this cannot find our approval, because this future four-eye principle will not prevent speculation losses. The best example is the municipal credit, and at all times all of our banks, which in the last year, have received the money from the bank rescue package from you in the last two years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this novelle does not change the structure of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, in reality everything remains with the old. One hangs a control coat, and that’s it. Considering these losses of at least €380 million – but they have not yet been booked because there could be something to do with it; you have to imagine that! – if, in view of this, you still not take the opportunity to change the system permanently, then keep speculating, ruin our country – but not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21035	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21057	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft will include, in particular, the Federal Finance Act, which regulates the debt management of the Republic of Austria, which constitutes or includes organisational as well as risk-related rules, in the light of the Court's proposals, the recommendations of the Working Group on Financial Management of the Federal Government and current market developments. Yes, there are changes here: The already existing internal risk management of the Federal Finance Agency is provided by law and adjusted in accordance with the findings of the financial crisis. It's interesting: If you look at the one side, you think there was a loss here. In fact, some would have to step in and apologise to the Federal Finance Agency, for the truth is that a total of over 6 billion has been generated so far. [[Abg. May. Haider: Unadjusted!]] Over 6 billion, ladies and gentlemen – this is the double of the biggest tax reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Why don't we continue?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see this kind of revenue obtained: We wouldn't have to do some renovations! It is true that the Court of Auditors' recommendations are taken into account in order to ensure even better protection against possible risks. But there is no business without risk! Now I recognise that the state must not and should not, at all, ask, but in total, one should be so honest that the Bun of the financing agency has fulfilled its mission professionally so far. Some would also have to abdicate the Minister of Finance other than Willi Molterer, who tried to push some things into the shoes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the Court of Auditors has been quoted so many times: I've done a lot of work. Some times I wonder, however, where he was when he looked at the hypo-Alpe-Adria in the liabilities of the federal state of Carinthia. That'd be too much to question. Ladies and gentlemen, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors – I hope they are better here than the view of liability in the Federal Republic of Carinthia – should be implemented in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21118	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21140	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Addressed to the Hypo Alpe-Adria: For this, it is good that there is the 2010 budget novelle, which is also being negotiated under this item on the agenda, and that there are additional bodies for large-scale economic processes. We very much welcome this, and of course we will support this innovation in this form. The next major point, the proposal for a law on the reform of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency: Mr Auer, if it were so easy to say: Well, this has been such a hard business, 6 billion in plus!, then the big question would ask itself: Why do we not continue as before, but we have decided very well to say from the experience, from history, also from the warnings of the Court of Auditors, well, there must be a revision!Unknown term type: "%s".? We need changes here, we need better controlling. From the green side, there is, of course, also the requirement of risk minimisation and ethical and sustainable presumption. It is also good that a working group was set up which, quite prominently, was under the direction of university professor Stefan Pichler; other names were Hemetsberger, Oberndorfer, Duchatczek, Pescorn, Plas. So a competent round that's been thinking about it: How can we improve this? – You have with 2. In November of last year, a 62-page report with recommendations has been submitted, and today we are ahead of what has become of the recommendations. Now we find very positive that there are aspects that we welcome and can also support in this form, such as that countries, municipalities and other non-budget institutions can use the services of ÖBFA – that is also good – or the anchoring of the four-eye principle. Nevertheless, it must not be overlooked that the many recommendations and announcements of implementation have not been implemented in this form. There are, in our opinion, huge gaps. On the one hand, in our opinion, the controlling is insufficient in this form, on the other hand, we want to anchor the guidelines in such a way as to minimise the risk and to be seen before the yield – a very essential point. The theme of sustainability and ethics as well: We have had a great deal of discussion about this since the outbreak of the crisis and the loss of speculation, particularly by public authorities. I think we should continue to have this in mind. We are very concerned when it is stated here that, in the end, it is only possible to examine why the contracting partner of a company based in an offshore centre is operating. We want to be very clear that contractual partners in offshore centres are not at all eligible and that is also enshrined in law. So there are many questions that we consider to be open. Our Budget and Financial Spokesman Werner Kogler has made a request in the Financial Committee to postpone the item on the agenda and to invite University Professor Pichler plus colleagues to discuss open points – yes, in the Budget Committee, excuse, you are right, colleague – in order to achieve any further improvements. [[Abg. Amon: In the Budget Committee!]] We very much regret that this was rejected by the government groups ÖVP and SPÖ. Even if there are improvements, this does not find our approval today. Estimated colleagues from the government parties, the novels you presented here, once again fall under the category “missing opportunities”.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21188	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Under Grasser this started – that is, speculation – with Minister of Finance Molterer that went wrong and Minister of Finance Pröll bathes it out. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. stupid.]] Hundreds of millions... – Oh, God, please! So it's Matznetter's fault. Was he responsible for the ÖBFA of the business division or were you? - Well, how was that? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr Krainer,...!]] [[Abg. Grill: This style is a naughtiness!]] What you can and must benefit from is that you turned it off as Minister of Finance. When it went wrong, you stopped the practice. If you've never informed State Secretary Matznetter, you've informed State Secretary Arbitrators the night before the Court of Auditors report has arrived – if we're already talking about it. This is the style that is, of course, rightly criticized. That's right, that's to criticise. [[President Dr. Graf will again take over the presidency.]] If you, the Freeman and the BZÖ, come today and say you do not agree to this repair, then you should be aware that the legal basis for the fact that under Grasser these speculations could only begin, were carried along by you both, namely by the 2003 Budgetary Accompaniment Act. This speculation, which has led to these losses, has made it possible at all! [[Abg. Grill: Where's the cap?]] What we're doing today is putting off exactly these speculation possibilities, when money is credited and then seen to be worth more. That's what we're gonna do. I take note of the following: You voted in favour when this was allowed, and when it is turned off, you vote against it – everyone should make his own rhyme. If some here believe that this has always been a profit, then explain to me why the government template says that savings in millions are expected by this law! – Because something just went wrong because this speculation cost millions. Of course, the government template also states that savings will now reach a million. One thing I have to say, as long as my colleague is still silent in the hall: In Lower Austria, the watches seem to be still different. This is still being done, even though you only speculated almost one billion € with the housing funds... [[Abg. Rädler: Haven't you taken your tablets today?- Oh, my God!]] I'm not talking about the tens of millions of environmental funds yet, I'm not talking about the funds that the hypo has speculated there and about the entire positions. It is time that the ÖVP in Lower Austria makes pure tables in this respect and removes from these positions the people who are responsible for having a billion € of tax money being juxtaposed and speculated. There are no political consequences to date. That's a scandal! We're waiting for this to happen at last. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Unlike you, I know what I am saying, because I am not just reading the Court of Auditors' report, I understand it too. This seems to be something nobody has done in Lower Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21310	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21332	Mr President. High house! If you listen to my colleague Krainer, you have the impression that he is still in opposition, namely in opposition to the black and blue-orange government. I really do not envy the ÖVP to have such coalition partners in the boat. There is really no state to make, even if it may be quite right in one point or another. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, first of all the first government paper, 752 of the supplements, is about the Federal Finance Act. – We welcome this in principle, because this is also a matter of increasing the use of postal and telecom services in the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice created new planning posts in 151: for judges, for prosecutors, but also for administrative staff. Given the increasing number of large-scale procedures, particularly in the economic sector, this is one thing we will welcome and support. The second point, however, is the Supplement 775, which concerns the Federal Finance Act, the Federal Budget Act and the Federal Budget Act 2013. There are some criticisms. The trigger was at the time the Court of Auditors' report on ÖBFA. You know, there were loss and depreciation figures of up to €380 million in the room. How much it really has become, you still don't know exactly. I believe that there is a need for information on the part of the government. It would be interesting for me to know: How high is the sum now? – Point 1. And point 2: Who's responsible? It certainly wasn't just the ÖBFA employees. They have tried, within the framework of what was provided by law, to carry out their task. That is to say, the ministers, from Grasser to Molterer to Pröll, must have known many things. The Court of Auditors then jointly presented the proposals derived from them in a working group. And what remains in this government template – the colleague of the Greens has already explained it – is a minimum programme. It is if you want to learn from history, not what you could really have done – Mr. Krainer – that I give you the right thing. You know that this agency is juggling between 25 and 30 billion per year. In the short term, it can also install a third. It is therefore important to draw up and propose clear guidelines for these 10 to 12 billion, so that public tax money is not speculated somewhere on Cayman Islands or in other tax havens, which is ultimately missing again in the budget. Positive is the four-eye principle introduced. That makes sense. The fact that the criteria applicable to normal bank managers are also applied to ÖBFA is actually a matter of course for me, a command of the hour. But there is still some need for implementation. I also think that the ÖBFA should, at regular intervals, provide an accurate description of the federal financial situation also to the National Council: How does it look with the assets? How does it look with the demands? What is the true value? However, the National Council should also be informed of the so-called "needs of need". What's it look like? It should also be mandatory to make high-quality crisis tests: What happens if I invest here or there and speculate above all? These are things that we still lack. That is why we say to the BZÖ: The direction is the right one, but one has stopped going half way to achieve the goal. Therefore, from today's point of view, there can only be a rejection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21399	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21420	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand why Mr Krainer was criticised by Willi Molterer. Rather, praise should be expressed for his activity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not surprising, however, to know what Mr Krainer understands as speculation. He said in the Committee on Budgets that risk and speculation are actually the same for him, and then he said: When I carry money to a bank and give it to a savings book, I also speculate that I get the money back. - Quote. It should encourage thought if this says the SPÖ's financial spokesperson! [[Abg. Wheeler: Saveroh!]] The fact is that this Federal Finance Act changes essential points, namely the implementation of the four-eye principle and the standardisation of due diligence. That is, I think, important to make good progress in the future. The Bundesfinanzgesetz 2010 has a change in the Federal Staff Plan. The aim is to allow the transfer of staff from postal and telecommunications services to be legally legitimated, so that this is possible in the future. I believe that this is a good and necessary regulation that should be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21464	Mrs Mag. Lap. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21485	Mr State Secretary! High house! The basis for today's presentation to the Federal Finance Agency is a report by the Court of Auditors of July 2009, which, with the emphasis on the diplomatic language of the Court of Auditors, found that the Federal Finance Agency had a high degree of risk has provided evidence that claims should be made in need and have been made, and that deficiencies in risk management have been identified. After a speculation summit and an expert working group has been held by the Federal Chancellor, we now have the results in the decision on this Federal Finance Agency. In my opinion, it is very important that there should be a stronger risk-controlling that there should be an increase in human resources in this area, that there should be a separation of risk and treasury, that the four-eye principle should be introduced, that a third be limited to short-term charges, and that one cannot accept loans to then speculate and bet that one may have a high profit. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! What separates us from you from the SPÖ is that speculation remains speculation for us and is not a “high-risk business”, as State Secretary Lopatka said in committee. A loss always remains a loss – and is not a negative gain!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21528	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21549	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw up a subject that is not so popular in Austria, and I would like to talk briefly about foreign exchange and foreign exchange. Every day, 2.5 trillion dollars of foreign exchange are traded daily in London. The largest market participant is Deutsche Bank. The success of Deutsche Bank, which has a lot of know-how in this field, is therefore sustainable and comes to an unimportant part of these professional foreign exchange management activities. We know that our municipalities have large foreign currency risks, especially those that have been in Swiss francs over the last few months, probably because the current interest savings from currency developments have become lost here. I think we also need knowledge to support local authorities in Austria in order to develop professional foreign exchange debt management. I think the ÖBFA would probably be the competent body to develop activities in this direction. One knows that in long term performance, in these activities over 20 years a net return of 5 percent p.a. This is the first time that we have been able to do this. This is not revolutionary, when careful work is done, but it is a knowledge-based activity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] I think that since the municipality demands professional debt management, Professor Cocca of the University of Linz sees it as a proven means of reducing debt for the municipalities that one should perhaps consider in the ÖBFA to develop activities in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21592	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21614	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Real estate crisis, financial crisis, debt crisis – these are the consequences of excessive deregulation and inregulation of financial markets. This failure has simply to be resolved, even the Austrian Federal Finance Agency has suffered if you want to express it finely. That is why the Federal Finance Agency needs a regulatory framework. To me, it was surprising that a federal funding agency did not even have a four-eye principle. This is necessary in each of the smallest administrative units. That there was no such high level was amazing to me. Of course, it is also important to limit the amount of money to an annual requirement. There are, of course, many other limitations. In fact, it is important not only to earn money – this is also important – but rather to stop practices that can lead to such losses and that there is a regulatory framework that ensures stable financial management. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21649	Mrs Silhavy is speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21670	Dear Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! A key point among the proposals we are discussing today is the possibility for the Federal Ministry of Justice, officials and officials of the Post Office or Telekom to work in the judicial system. Therefore, the revision of the 2010 Federal Finance Act is also necessary. In particular, this is about the adaptation of the planning posts. 15 Members of the Post Office and Telekom are already employed in the Ministry of Justice. It is about 35 other colleagues who will start as assistant staff in the Ministry of Justice until September. As you know, the costs for these officials will be borne by Post and Telekom until 2014. However, I would also like to take a very brief look at the July 2009 Court of Auditors report, which showed the risky speculation of ÖBFA. I would like to remind you that there was an initiative by the Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann that there was this anti-specification summit at all. The essential thing is that we are setting up for ÖBFA at least the same criteria as for banks when it comes, for example, to the four-eye principle, due diligence or risk control. That means we need regulation mechanisms. Mr Auer, an essential aspect is how far we are all involved in this risk. Turbocapitalism has shown us how we get out of risk. The market is not self-regulatory, but the solutions and what comes out at the end are usually at the expense of third parties – and we cannot play in that way. That is why we need these regulatory mechanisms for the ÖBFA. I am pleased that we have come to these regulations. However, they should be self-evident. It is sad that it was only these speculation losses and an anti-speculation tip so that these natural regulations could be introduced by us together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21717	Mr Lopatka spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21738	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When you did it Some of the results of the ÖBFA are compared to what has been said about criticism, but one can only conclude that this criticism was partly far-reaching. Summa summarum is the work done by the ÖBFA, and also the result that was possible from 1993 to 2009, is quite remarkable, because more than €6 billion on the home side face threat losses of €350 million. So you should really leave the church in the village! Nevertheless, it was right to follow the Court of Auditors' recommendations. It was right to take the consequences of the financial crisis and the consequences, which of course also become visible in these threat losses, to do so. It has already been mentioned that there have been significant legal improvements in this area – and I can mention the points very briefly – which have been some of the practice already practised in the ÖBFA. The existing internal risk management of ÖBFA is now legally mandatory. With regard to due diligence, it is true that the general obligations of care taken by the BWG, which the management directors of a credit institution have to comply with, are now also applicable to the managing directors of ÖBFA. And the fact that ÖBFA is to be more involved in the financial management of other legal entities in the future, as has already been mentioned by some Members, is certainly only an advantage in order to make greater use of synergies potential and, of course, to achieve further cost savings. The fact that the four-eye principle as regards drawing rights is now also laid down by law is to be welcomed 100% and a correct decision. In summary, therefore, the following points are raised: What is being decided here today will certainly help to minimise the risk that is being put in place. On the other hand, however, you also have to say: If we had had these regulations so far, I would not have been able to speak of that we can say through interest-rate gains and write €6.2 billion on the home page. It would not have been possible for the regulations we decide today, but it is the will of the House to proceed in this restrictive form, and that is to be respected. In this sense, I thank you for your broad support for this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21780	Mr Kirchgatterer is speaking as the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21802	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At TOP 18: For democracy, for the rule of law, for the people seeking justice in our country, a well-functioning justice is of great importance. This requires sufficient judges, prosecutors and lawyers, as well as writing staff. The same applies to the judicial board. Like hardly any other area of the public service, the judicial system is financed by two thirds to 75 percent, or the costs of the judicial institutions, to the full – itself. Resumptions and the package of measures announced for autumn, to be developed in the dialogue between the Ministry of Justice and the Staff Office, will take into account the situation on the ground, as it really is, what it really looks like in practice. Today's novelle enables post and Telekom officials to be employed in the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I expressly support the proposal by Federal Minister Mag. Norbert Darabos, employees of the Ministry of Defence, through the transfer to other ministries where there is a lack of personnel, offer new areas of responsibility. This accusation by Minister Darabos is superior, verifiable and could certainly benefit justice. Finally, I would like to say: Mr State Secretary, it does not contribute to credibility if, in a period from 1993 to 2009, positive figures are achieved, but it does not mention a loss of €350 million and, by presenting total numbers, gives the impression that the actual events are not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21844	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21865	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I've got a paper with you today, except for me. Mr Krainer spoke three times today about the fact that in Lower Austria housing funds had been speculated of nearly € 1 billion. [[Abg. May. Lap: That's right!]] I quote from the summary of the Court of Auditors' report of 30. ==References== When I speak of speculating, I have to compare what I originally had with the present state. The Court of Auditors says, please: The net asset of the Fund is currently €66.7 million higher than at the beginning of the investment. - Quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Krainer, if you use the term “speculate”, what does that mean? – For example, you pay € 3 million and then you only have more than € 2.5 million. Then you speculated 500 000 €. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] However, if you create €3 million and then have €3.6 million, you have not speculated anything. Mr Krainer, I say to you: If you think you can act here as a coalition partner like an opposition politician of the meanest kind, then this is not good for the coalition climate. I'll tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You said the untruth three times today! [[Abg. Krainer: Of course that's true!]] They said the untruth three times, and we don't let that happen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21943	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e21965	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. There is not only such a thing as selective perception, but also such a thing as selective communication. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The “holy ÖVP” must not be criticized!]] A few facts about speculation in Lower Austria: In 2002, housing development loans worth €8.2 billion were sold. [[Abg. Krainer: €8.2 billion!]] Sales revenue: $4.4 billion. The aim was to bring these original €8.2 billion back after about 20 to 25 years – and additional revenue. [[Abg. Ing. Schultes: That's where the SPÖ voted!]] According to Plan 2002, this should now be €5.6 billion, including interest income. Actual status today: €4.6 billion. So the difference is 1 billion €. The distributions you address are partly from the substance. Now let me tell you what the Social Democracy of Lower Austria wants: Finally, the speculations with public resources and the changeover to conservative forms of engagement, provide half a billion € to the communities – that is all right, yes – for education, kindergartens, retirement centres and also to create jobs, a law that prohibits speculation with public funds, and then we have also clarified the matter in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Kößl: You have carried this!]] It is not about debt allocations, it should be kept in line with the facts. In Lower Austria – Mr President, you know that – everything that is said against the head of state or against the ÖVP is presented as a majestic policy. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] And this should also be clarified here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22068	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22089	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A preliminary remark on the discussion, which now clearly deals with Lower Austria: As far as I am aware, there was a unanimous government decision and a unanimous land-day decision on the procedure. That's all I need to say. I am bringing forward an amendment concerning the resolution of disasters, which in these days have significantly affected parts of the country: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to refer to the written request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22174	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22264	As there is now a short-term amendment and a short break in the sitting to prepare the vote, I shall refer the vote to the end of the sitting. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22291	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency might have deserved a more detailed debate than it took place here, and perhaps even a more differentiated one. The history has been tried. I might want to go from the back to the front. It was done by the Federal Minister for Finance to set up this Commission. It has put in a lot of reform proposals. Some of them have also been taken over. That is why the question arises whether one could not agree to a part of it. However, colleague Lichtenecker has explained why this is too little for us. But I wanted to point out one thing: The history of this matter deserves further clarification elsewhere. That is why I believe it is not only a matter for the Committee on Budgets - President Auer has also given his opinion here - but in my view also the Committee on the Court of Auditors, because the whole of the matter has only been brought to the public and here into the house by means of the Court of Auditors report. But what do we need to find out? – As so often, it is the same game, and I think it is dramaticly unreasonable. It does not make sense, however, and that has so far been the intention of the coalition or its representatives in the committee – and as President of the Committee, as you know, what is in itself democratically legitimate – to always allow those who have been behind for years to be heard as those who are currently under responsibility, or to hear only Minister Pröll, for example, and not Minister Molterer or Grasser. This is totally empty, that is all completely wrong, and that is why we do not come to a green branch – I would just like to say this once for the protocol – if it is true that, starting with the 2000s, since the 2003 budget accompanying law, a possibility has been opened up, which was then used by Grasser and later became “slamming” at Willi Molterer – under quotation marks – provided that the Court of Auditors statistics are applicable. – You can also question them, so it is not that you should not, but you have to do that with those responsible at the time. The practice doesn't make any sense at all: First of all, you have to fight for a minister to come, then you have to fight for an information person to come, and this is getting more difficult and worse. But it is always only those who had nothing to do with the matter at that time. That's absurd! We do not need a committee of the Court of Auditors to do this. That is why we have offered that the chairman of this Commission, who has worked really well, if one wants to load it – you have proposed this – not in the Court of Auditors Committee Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But you didn't want to. That's not how it works! The operation in the house must already be a consistent one. If each committee does exactly what someone else should actually do, it will be a little absurd. And the Court of Auditors is now, by definition, ex post matters; otherwise, the Court of Auditors must not examine at all. But then you have to be able to hear those responsible at that time too. Now I'm gonna tell you something: When the matter was “floated” – under quotation marks – we did not condemn Willi Molterer exactly, quite the contrary: We have defended him because the urgent presumption that he has responded immediately has passed. – You have to be able to discuss this somewhere! It was reserved for the coalition partner – because they just argued so funnyly – to shoot so long so that he may not go to Brussels. – I still think it's a clean-up after that, but that's what you have to do with each other. That's how it happened! But that he can go where he can really do the thing and he can possibly say something, but at least the controller of the Federal Finance Agency, who has explained for years how super everything is, then can't explain how super everything is, no human being understands that – no human being! We need to consider this practice. An objective question mark at the end: They always say: The €300 million in losses that may result from these losses is €6 billion about what I know for a survey period of proceeds, due to the blessed activity of the ÖBFA. It may be, it will be. The question is: What would have produced alternative charges that could have been used – you always need a reference size? On this issue we do not come to a green branch, because the Ministry of Finance does not extract the relevant data for all the series of inquiries we submit, so that this complicated bill can be recorded at all. That's exactly what it's all about, however, that you can face up to some serious matter – and that's what you're wasting. Why, it's actually completely unclear. You didn't explain it again today. And I'll tell you: This will be a permanent issue in the Court of Auditors. We have such a problem every legislative period. There is always a report that stands out, to which you simply have to say: That's not how it is! And then he won't be finished. Then he will not be on the agenda and will not be finished. That's where you could say: Yeah, even guilt, nothing's going to happen. But before we let the completely false witnesses sit there and discuss with anyone who has nothing to do with the matter, it is better to let it really stay. But that's not good, but that's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22364	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want the final word? - That's not the case. As already announced, the vote will be moved to the end of the agenda. [[19:36:39]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the Government template (675 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Film Promotion Act (809 d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1147/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Untergebieter, Colleagues on the revision of the Bundesmuseen Act concerning the Volkskundemuseum (811 d.b.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on Amendment No 1148/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Untergebieter, Colleagues concerning the renewal of the Bundesmuseen law in relation to the Volkskundemuseum (812 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 407/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Inlander, colleagues on the promotion and tax deductibility of artificial sponsorship (813 d.b.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1059/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Unterlander, colleagues on the receipt of the Wagner Festival Wels (814 d.b.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on Amendment No 1122/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues in the resolution of the Republical Treaty with the Vienna Philharmonic (815 d.b.) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Stefan Petzner, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 27. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on Amendment No 1128/A(E) by Mr Gerald Grosz, Members and colleagues on the museum of open air Stübing (817 p.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22490	We now come to the points 20 to 27 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22519	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: I find it a bit strange that we are negotiating a whole series of, namely eight, very different agenda items on culture among one. You have heard it, the President has now listed it forever. [[Abg. Amon: You have agreed to this in the Presidential!]] And I know, in the President... yeah, I know, sure! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] Unfortunately, the Greens have not enforced themselves, and for the sake of loving peace we have decided to do so. That's all clear. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that all of us are jointly responsible if the culture is left out in this way. A little bit of this also has to do with opposition and government, because of the eight agenda items only one of the government parties, that is, the government, and seven of the opposition. And, of course, they can now be beautifully removed in this way. We should strengthen the importance of culture a little more. That would do us all good! So I can now select only three from these eight items on the agenda, which will make you realize that each individual is important to himself. The first is the government's request for the Film Promotion Act, to which we agree. That's a sensible law, not a question at all. It greatly strengthens the production companies of the film by reducing the term of protection. However, it strengthens – and I have already said that in committee, because I hope that we all work together to make this change – just the production companies and not the authors, namely those who make the films. Since 1936, there has been the so-called "cessio legis" which gives all the rights, i.e. the rights of directors and directors, as well as other actors in the film, to the production companies. At that time, this law emerged from the consideration that if someone invests in the film, he will also be rewarded or should just fail, and will not have to pass on anything if the risk is rewarded. But today we are dealing with a 100 per cent publicly funded film, and now I really wonder why the authors who are ultimately responsible for the success cannot and should not benefit. I very much hope that in future we will all work together on this change in copyright, on a more just distribution. – That was the first example. The second concerns the Augarten, and I am very glad that the BZÖ has made this request, because it turns out that a second party is now supporting the politics that actually comes from the population, and that this party is supporting the population in one thing that should have been taken over by the city of Vienna and the Federal Republic for a long time. It is about the fact that 14 000 signatures have already been signed, so that something is not done that is actually natural. A free space, a green room, an oasis for all kinds of pleasures and so on – we know the Augarten – should be taken away to privatize it more or less by building a “concert crystal”, a concert hall for the Vienna boys. Ladies and gentlemen! We know the subject, but I can tell you that you are going against your own districts by the government parties, but also by the FPÖ. In 1998, in 2000 and in 2006 all parties considered that nothing should be built there, both in the second and in the twentieth districts. So with one word, that's a bit against the population, and I think there is a need to think about it again. If Mr Cortolezis-Schlager in the Committee says that the population is being misinformed by the citizens' initiatives, because the public prosecutor has not found any procedural defects, then I can only correct them. She informs the people and also the Parliament wrong, because I still have a phone call with Volksanwälter Stoisits: Many procedural defects have been found. Now I come to the third point – you see, the light is already shining, I have not even discussed two points deeper. [[Call the FPÖ:Be shorter and more precise!]] The third point is the joint motion for a resolution on the problem of the museum of folklore. The Volkskundemuseum is still in the dornröschenschlaf, for many years. That was a feudal idea of the director Seipel at the time – we have already talked about him today, he is still accompanying us. It is very easy, with a spring stroke, to take a museum so to speak as a loan, to infiltrate it, and very, very difficult to release it then again. But I am pleased that this motion for a resolution is now being tabled because I believe that it is one of the most important collections in Austria, indeed worldwide, which we have at all, and which shows very beautifully how cultures grow, how cultures change, how cultures exchange. Culturally speaking, it is even the most important task at all to show what happens in this exchange and what cultures are at all. Therefore, I also believe that the Volkskundemuseum should be included as part of the Volkskundemuseum, which will then be and must be a museum of cultures. But that also means that these two are autonomous as a museum of cultures and can be liberated from the association of the Art History Museum, from this hostage. Mrs Minister, you said in the Committee that if a majority thinks it would be necessary, there will be no lack of funding. – Well, we have the majority, and now it is about the plans that are actually on the table. In order to finance, there is no need for the largest amounts – there are other stories that are financed in the cultural field, for which much more resources need to be spent. Now you're on it, let's do it! I very much hope that this important step will be taken very soon. For years it takes to bring something back to where it was actually always, just because it was running bad politics for a short time. Let's make this accident a happiness again! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22578	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22599	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! With regard to the Film Promotion Act, which is also supported by the Greens, I would like to stress that it is not only about flexibilising the blocking periods, but also that we have a provision that at last ensures a balanced gender relationship in the Supervisory Boards, and I do not think that is so insignificant. Interesting in the Committee, by the way, were the five and six FPÖ applications: In the five applications, the FPÖ calls for the withdrawal of public art promotion in favour of take sponsorings, and in the request six she invites the minister to jump in financially because a private sponsor has withdrawn from a festival – an interesting combination. We have rejected both requests because we do not stand for either one or the other: neither do we go back to public art promotion nor simply jump in if a private sponsor does not pay. I am pleased that there is this joint proposal to the Museum of People's Science and Culture, which supports the common concept, even though Mrs. Unterresser fears multicultural and destruction of values, and says that this concept has only come about because the team would have to be. – Muerbe, Member of the European Parliament, might rather not want to understand what it is all about. These museums, as this concept also writes, are not museum temples for the care of unchangeable truths, but this museum becomes new, becomes a learning place, a laboratory, a place where one critically deals with the concepts of collective identities. This is essential because the danger of exclusion and exclusion lies in the same way. Therefore, this museum concept, which we also support today, is a very exciting journey to amazing new insights in which FPÖ does not want to participate. It's a shame that the concept deserves our support all the time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22635	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22657	Mr President. High house! In itself I did not want to take part in this debate, but a statement by Mr Zinggl has just electrified me. Mr Zinggl says that, here in France and freely – I asked myself again – Mrs Cortolezis-Schlager would have misinformed the public because he would have called Mrs. Volksanwälter Stoisits, and he would have told him about numerous procedural defects. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is no more and no less than abuse of office. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] - Please? What did you want to say? What do you suggest? According to the constitutional situation in force, each public prosecutor must maintain the silence of his office to the extent that the body he examines has to respect it. That means – he is not the complainant himself, but a citizen initiative, I have asked Mrs. Cortolezis-Schlager – that Mrs. Volksanwaltin Stoisits is clearly far above the Constitution with her former group colleague Dr. Zinggl. I think this is remarkable, and it was worth noting today. We will have to discuss this in the People's Procuratorate Committee. I have not done one thing – and I can remember that no political group came from so much disparity with my office, which was supposedly not objective enough, which the citizen has seen quite differently – that I would have exclusively informed any political group and, most importantly, my own group about the public prosecutor's investigation. Never, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we are so far as the citizen has to expect the investigation to be carried out by the group which the public prosecutor in question has previously heard, then the fun will cease! This is not a task of the People's Procuratorate! The citizen must be able to rely that the People's Procuratorate does not have a party policy and that the majority of its group will be informed exclusively of the examination procedures, as Mr Zinggl has celebrated here. [[He welcomed BZÖ and FPÖ as well as representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that was rather a Lapsus Linguae, because it certainly wasn't a Lucidum intervallum. This has just happened to Mr Zinggl, because if he knew what he was talking, he probably wouldn't have said it. But he tried to use this as evidence against Col. Cortolezis-Schlager. I say to you that you have provided proof here that Mrs Volksanwälter Stoisits is obviously a party policy on constitutional law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22741	Mr Zinggl spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and ask for the actual correction to be made accordingly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22765	Mr Stadler has just said that I would have said that Mrs Stoisits had informed me of the procedural defects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I have said that Mrs Stoisits has found a procedural flaw which she has made public on Saturday on television. This is therefore not at all a party-political caller or chatter, but a normal act of public relations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You know exactly...!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Don't always rain on something...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22809	Mr Zinggl, you have set out the facts and have also corrected and thus expressed your actual correction. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22833	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My colleague Cortolezis-Schlager will be speaking on his own after all, but one thing I also said about this is because the accusation of procedural defects has been discussed in the committee and has also been raised here: There is a rights of monument protection, and this notice of the Federal Monumental Office is clear. I think it is important to take note of this and not to question it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Zinggl referred, in particular, to the issue of copyright with regard to the Austrian film. I also believe that, for various reasons, there is a need for a broad parliamentary debate on copyright, not only on the subject of film, but in a digital age, many issues are open. Our legal situation is lagging behind, and in the sense of protecting intellectual property, it would have been time for us to consider parliamentaryly what consequences we should have on the one hand and what framework conditions on the other hand need to be created. There are several issues on the agenda. One of them is the term of protection for musicians, for sound mediums at European level. I know that here. The House has different opinions in this regard. In any case, I would support an extension of the term of protection, because it concerns our artists. But the question of the digitization of our cultural heritage is also one that the Hohe Haus must devote itself to, because not for nothing has the cooperation of the Austrian National Library with Google caused great excitement in the digitisation of 400 000 copyright-free works. This shows me that there is a need for information on the one hand, but also an awareness on our part – on the part of politics, but also on the part of the state – of how we want to comply with the digitalization strategy, which is also contained in the Government Convention – on the one hand, with regard to the political commitment to it, on the other hand with regard to financing. There is a project at European level, Europeana, which wants to offer Paroli in this area. The fact is, however, that the commitment of many individual countries is missing, partly also because of the lack of financial resources. I think it would be time to raise these copyright issues, but also those relating to a digitalisation strategy. In this context, I would encourage – a first round table has already given it – to organise a survey on the parliamentary level in order to be sufficiently devoted to the subject. As far as the Film Promotion Act itself – the innovation and the blocking periods – is concerned, of course, it is only to be supported. It is a top priority of the concept of success in relation to the film that we already have – with the increase in film promotion, but also with the economic promotion that was created by the Minister of Economic Affairs, and lastly by the anchoring of the film/TV agreement. I think we can make a good balance. I can only say to the Museum of Folks and Folks that it is quite a positive sense of will by at least three parties to consider a combination of the two museums. I mean, a house of cultures and the merging of Austrian identity with foreign cultures is something you don't have to worry about. But when it comes to this, it must be a new museum, which can also recruit international recognition, which you observe, and it must not be a house that would have the will to become a new museum, but does not bring together the organizational framework conditions in the front and the back. It will, of course, also be a question of the budget, although the will of ours is given to implement it as effectively as possible. There are other points that could be addressed. I do not have the time to do this, but my colleagues will still give an opinion anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22897	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e22918	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The election campaign in the Styria is hopefully for a good, namely for an agreement on the preservation of Stübing. A few months ago, I didn't think I was going to talk about Stübing in Parliament, because that's a place of my childhood, and that's also a place of my children's childhood. We fans don't have to prove to each other who's the bigger fan of Stübing. We should all agree that it is a unique museum that is to be preserved in this form, because it is also the only Austrian plant which This is a way of doing this. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] – It’s nice that all of the Steirers are in agreement. This museum is 40 years old this year – or it was already, I have at least figured it out. It has grown very much in recent years and now has the character and size and also the value and importance of a federal museum. It is not a federal museum, but it is from the foundation, as it is occupied – with the Ministries, with the federal states that represent it, with the 98 projects – quite now in the rank of a Federal Museum. It's huge, it's grown, and there's no funding, as we all know. We should also, I think, stop thinking about financing, but it should be fairly fast secured. The museum still lives year after year of subsidies. Subsidies can make projects possible. This museum, however, is not a project, but a cultural service company, which Mr Kurt Jungwirth also told us in a letter, and I give it quite right. I therefore put to the vote the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take measures as soon as possible to ensure the financing of the Austrian Open Air Museum Stübing.” On another subject, on which there is also a motion for a resolution, namely the Philharmonic Orchestra: The resolution of the Republic Treaty was also discussed in the Committee; we very much welcome this resolution. Since the 1990s, the Greens have repeatedly forced the resolution, especially for the reason that there was a decision in 1997 to ensure equal opportunities for men and women. Unfortunately, there has been only one harpist since 1971, and currently three musicians of the orchestra of 124 members are female. You have to take this into account. At the moment, 30 percent of Austrian graduates of instrumental studies are female, i.e. a lack of musicians cannot be the reason. It is obvious that the orchestra has not complied with this assignment for years. In fact, it is necessary to consider whether the orchestra should not repay money it has received for equality. It is gratifying that the Republic Treaty was dissolved. But it is important to remember that the State Opera Orchestra is now being subsidized via the back door – and the Minister has said that too. That means the money flows back across the back door. I would like to mention that eight out of 150 members are currently female in the State Opera Orchestra, that is, there is not much to be done for equality, although, as I said, there would already be enough corresponding musicians. That is to say, one should look at it very carefully, and I do not think that the Committee's statement is sufficient to ensure equality in the State Opera Orchestra. We know how voluntary self-compulsory commitments, especially as regards equality between men and women, usually fail. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23008	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23101	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23122	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! First to the Augartenspitz: With regard to the cultivation of the Augarten Summit, all the parties in the Leopoldstadt, including the Greens, agreed at that time to the necessary change of the 1998 area plan. Since the Pühringer Foundation 2005 together with the Vienna Boys, the Greens have been planning a concert hall, and the Greens are ransacking this project because the lack of money has not brought their friendly institute, namely the film archive, to the train. In the Cultural Committee, Mr. Zinggl, you told us that you played football there – but only because you played football there as a Bub, don't have to chain your friends to the trees. All administrative requirements are fulfilled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that the oranges stand on the side of green-controlled lawbreakers is surprising. We reject the Oranges' request. I now come to the request concerning the Richard Wagner Festival. To this end, we must say: The Richard Wagner Festival in Wels is a toddler in the Austrian Festival. The annual budget of € 600 000 is spent exclusively or almost exclusively on private premises by the Just-Doppler family. However, the survival will no longer be possible without public funds in the future, and it is therefore necessary for the public to jump in here, that the federal government or the country be invading. This festival is very popular with Wagner lovers who love an authentic performance of Wagner operas, for Wagner has given direction instructions and the performance practice adheres to these directional instructions. Just this way of performing Wagner operas authentically has led to the fact that this festival has become an audience magnet for all Wagner lovers. Big Wagner singers sang there – René Kollo, Gwyneth Jones, Peter Seiffert, and first-class orchestras played there. That's why it's booked out months before. Maximilian Schell was there a year ago, when a gala took place, holding the ceremony. And we believe that this cultural treasure must be preserved and promoted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the "Museum New": Dear Mrs Ablinger, I just heard you say we need laboratories. – We liberals believe that we do not need laboratories, we need future-oriented museums. The project “Museum Neu” provides that the Volkskundemuseum in the Palais Schönborn is dissolved and that it will be merged with the Volkskundemuseum. The word “melted” has not been invented by me, so it is in the “Museum New. ” And that, of course, is an uncaught attack on our cultural heritage. The Volkskundemuseum – the largest of its kind in Europe – is the only folklore museum that is not a Federal Museum. And while all the other Federal Museums receive basic fees in millions, the Volkskundemuseum receives only €400 000 a year, because it is still run on a club basis. For years, this museum has not even been able to pay the posters for its exhibitions. The Bude's breaking up. Neither the covenant, nor the land, stand up for it, and this is a shame, I would say. And since it is said again and again that the directors of the Volkskundemuseum and the Volkskundemuseum would be for the "Museum Neu": Of course they are. They stand with their backs to the wall. I mean, any kind of change, improvement comes to those. But in reality, this whole project is not suitable for truly expanding these two museums into prolific, forward-looking museums in the future. The Museum of Art has become a sub-division of the Art History Museum – in my opinion it has been downgraded – and its director has had to be satisfied with the role of the head of the department in recent years. So no wonder he can't say no to the "Museum New" either. It is also to be said that the concept “Museum Neu” provides that the collection of the Volkskundemuseum will be banished in the basement and on the attic. We must not forget one thing: The Volkskundemuseum is one of the largest folklore museums that shows our history, our folk art, our regional art, the crownlands of the monarchy are also presented here – and this is now to be done in the world empire. This, of course, is a big mistake in our opinion, and I am surprised that the ÖVP agrees here. I see, Mr Kopf is not here, but I am convinced that you, my colleague, yes, I would say once, Bartenstein, who is addressing this, perhaps also Mr Schüssel. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That might be very good. – Look Once you get to this concept, otherwise you may have to make the accusation that you are actually working towards left-wing social policy in the future. [[Abg. Amon: You can't say that!]] Well, so look at the concept and then, I'm convinced, you'll be different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals are for the preservation of our identity, for that is the subject of conscience of our era. And we are of the opinion that the Volkskundemuseum should be established as a Federal Museum, that it should remain in the Palais Schönborn and that the Volkskundemuseum should again become a Federal Museum. Now to the Film Promotion Act. For the revision of the Film Promotion Act, there is something to say in principle: We were the party that made it possible for this ORF novelle to come into existence at all. That is, we were the party that also made it possible for the film/television agreement to come about and that the filmmakers can work at all. I remember: Mr Zinggl, in the Constitutional Committee you were the very great patron saint of the film-makers, but you have failed to agree to this at the appropriate time. So you can't be that now, and we'll always point it out. In our opinion, the current amendment to the Film Promotion Act, namely the abandonment of the Austrian Film Council and the flexible rights to use television, is acceptable. This does not mean, however, that we are satisfied with the Film Promotion Act, quite the contrary. The situation is sad, despite the Oscar gain of the film “Die Fälscher” – by the way a 50-to-50 production – and many also know that “The White Band” was a German film and had only co-productions with Italy, France and Austria in common. Many also know that Christoph Waltz does not owe his Oscar prize to Austrian film promotion. For the cinematographers, the Austrian film is an unknown being. He's been in the permanent crisis for years. The Austrian film is a long-termcomapatient that hangs on a subsidy drop. Since 2004, the film economic report has been a source of cast evidence that film promotion is inefficient. Mrs Minister, I do not know if you have read the report once, but if you had, then you would see that one third of the films that were supported for example in 2008 have only found 100 to 500 viewers. You have to imagine that once! 30 films were newly released in 2008, and a third of them did not even find 1,000 spectators per film. I mean, that's incredible! I said this in committee anyway: It's like people just went there to eat bread at the premiere. And all the alarm bells have to ring on their own. A third of the films may have found around 1,000 viewers, and only four films have found over 150,000 viewers. – I mean, that's an absolute shame! Let's see what's happening in our neighboring country! In the first months after their release, the films find a million audience. That means our film promotion needs to be changed. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am convinced of that – I hope you too. Other film institutions with similar funding measures, such as the Medienboard in Berlin-Brandenburg or the FilmFernsehFonds Bayern, have huge successes. The success of a film does not end at the border. I would ask that we vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23230	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23350	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23371	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! On cultural sponsorship, I would like to say that we will agree to the request because we believe that it is going in the right direction, although we also need to distinguish between donations and sponsoring services, which are expenses that can be dropped without any consideration. This form of private art promotion is closely limited: Grants to public-law museums as well as to private museums with collections of pan-European importance. – That is only the question of who determines the criteria and how they are then reviewed. Furthermore, this applies to the Bundesdenkmalamt, the Austrian National Library, the art universities and the Academy of Fine Arts. However, only 10 percent of the previous year's profits are taxed in this respect. I think we should make a balance here, which means that in the future the public hand will take back the sponsor's contribution, so that there is a balance and that the private will take more sponsor money into their hands. The problem of money and property donations: In the case of money, the deductibility is easily and absolutely enforceable, and in the case of property donations from the company, there is a tax burden in the form of so-called own consumption, which partly reduces the effect of tax deductibility. In contrast, everything is regulated during art and cultural sponsorship. That is what we heard in the committee. Here the organiser is clearly asked to provide the sponsoring services as regards the sums. However, I think it's complicated. This would have to be easier to regulate, so that the artist and also the donor or sponsor have a better perspective. The stepchild here is unfortunately the folk culture: The Federal Museums are funded with €160 million and the Bundestheater with € 142 million, whereas the popular culture is only €2.4 million. Our demand would therefore be a better organization, a networking of the individual providers, the clarity of the database so that the art and cultural creators can better orient themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23417	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23438	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian film has been quite successful in recent years, both as a cultural asset – which shows the many prizes at the international festivals – but it has also been successful as an economic asset. This is important, because through its production, the film really serves to strengthen the economic location. Since 2006, the public sector has taken a number of important steps to improve the environment for the film, whether by increasing the public service budget, whether by doubling innovative film promotion, whether it be through the legal safeguarding and expansion of the film/TV agreement, or by creating an economic support model for film production, in order to give just a few examples. With the new amendment of the Film Promotion Act, the time limits for the evaluation of the films funded by the ÖFI are made shorter. This possibility is in the interest of the filmmakers and corresponds also to the shortened blocking periods in the German Film Funding Act. This will also create good production and exploitation conditions for the film in future. Mrs Unterlander, on your request: He does contain a shot of comics, I would say, maybe Tragic. I would just like to highlight one point which you have read so quickly. It says that the revision of the Film Promotion Act should take place from the following points of view – and, among other things, it says: ‘Movies must be revised until they are promising to succeed.’ You seem to understand this, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Unterlander, by artistic freedom. I guess there's no way to say this anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23475	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. Grosz: (on the way to the speaker's desk) It can also become more!]] 2 minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23518	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I believe that I am the third dimension in the film, because if the Austrian National Council, as the assembly of representatives of the people in a country with 8 million inhabitants, for the third time has to talk with a minister responsible for at least coordination about the open-air museum Stübing, then I really believe I am in a bad film, and indeed. It is a very pitiful, pitiful image, very pitiful, very sad and quite embarrassing for SPÖ and ÖVP that they are unable for over five weeks to ensure the financing of the tenth largest open-air museum in Europe of € 300 000. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Schönegger: You're not even in committee!]] Mr Schönegger in the first row! Once the Federal Minister turns the light and all her officials in her department, it costs €300 000. When Mr. Pröll in his multi- and simplicity turns off an advertisement campaign for one day in the largest daily newspapers “Krone”, “Small”, “Press”, “Austria”, a page with his debt children’s listing, it costs €300 000. I am not talking about the salary costs, no, the premiums and rewards, but also about those of officials, but only those of the Secretary of State, make up more than €300 000. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Go, stop!]] And now I'm not talking about the food costs of your government members, not about the salary costs of bloated cabinets with 25 employees, I'm not talking about advertising campaigns up to €40 million a year for all, I'm not talking about the leaks, I'm not talking about 106 million € unnecessary expenses that cause red and black every year and with which they're going to the minds of people in our country, no, I'm talking about €300 000. On 19 May, MEPs Grosz and Spadiut made a request – we now have the 7th. July, ladies and gentlemen –: The Federal Government is invited to take measures as soon as possible to ensure the financing of the Austrian Open Air Museum Stübing over €300 000. And then Mr Schönegger and Mr Amon came out and said: This is a joke, the request! It's far too far. That must be 360 000, 400 000 €! What's the big deal?- Oh, my God! He doesn't understand! We will ensure that they have equal to €400 000 in a week. SPÖ and ÖVP discuss a whole plenary day around how they put in an amendment because it was so fast. That is where the Member Ridi Steibl quotes the “Small Newspaper” and that it's all so bad, and then it comes – Centralka! Then comes a request from Mr Sonja Ablinger and Mr Mag. Silvia Fuhrmann The National Council wants to decide: “The Board of Directors – BM for Education, Arts and Culture, BM for Finance, BM for Economy, Family and Youth, BM for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management and the BM for Science and Research – are invited to work together with the State of Styria and the other federal states within the framework of their organ function to evaluate the current structure...” – And so on. There is no more empty, useless and pointlessness of content when compared to what is being discussed in this House – compared to the sum – about Peanuts of €300 000, for a open-air museum where you're all sitting out here from red and black, saying how important this is, but in two months you're not able to finally secure funding with your resorts. Slowly I will not let you mock me, nor those people in this country who have something on this open-air museum. It is the tenth largest open-air museum in Europe, it is the largest open-air museum in Austria, it bears UNESCO awards, it is a military show, I would say, our local identity, our culture, it is an example of folk culture, and we have it on the government bank to thank God for a minister who is very well-willed and has also explained this here several times at a questionable hour, but also on the government bank, as in the past, to support it in the context of her possibilities of €70 000. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, especially the Styrian People's Party: I don't know why you defend yourself that the Minister of Finance, who shoots ads out of the fireplace every day, also his contribution to the level of... – No, I don't care about the World Cup under guarantee. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] First, we'll do tumbling here, and then you can watch all the World Cups if that's so important, because you'll all get enough pain money for sitting in here, more pain money than any other average earner in this country, and so I'm sure I won't let the sound turn off, with the reference that in some form a World Championship is waiting for us! [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Then we do the World Championship of work and we do here primarily Stübing, the open-air museum in Styria. [[Call the ÖVP: Better knower!]] – Yes, I know, when it comes to football, then you will be small, then we all have to go home, then we forget everything, then we forget the minimum security we have decided on, the transfer account, the government doesn’t care about us, our responsibility in the house doesn’t matter, we follow the round leather. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Nice to meet you.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Brosz.]] Then go into your clubs and watch the World Cup! We've got 32 minutes left, and I'm willing to take advantage of this every 32 minutes if you're even longer. I don't have a genius. You can take poison on it, very popularly expressed. That is why I would suggest before the Federal Government once again disintegrates and is again unable to provide at least those sites that have not yet wanted to deliver their share, namely the Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, the family, youth, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, to make money available for making use of the remaining time of the debate in order to spend some time in the money stores of your party secretariats, in the money stores of your tax waste machinery, where every day the money will be shot out, finally to lurk this sumptuous 300 000 € for the open-air museum so that we can support this open-air museum, because it is no longer possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] There's no longer any sign that you're 19 years old. ==References== July 2010 is not able to save this open-air museum, and this matter once again with any evaluations to be made by the Board of Directors to be pushed to the long bank. The Steirers have not deserved this, but the Austrians have not deserved it, which has something to do with history, identity and folk culture. [[Abg. Amon: Steirers are also Austrians!]] So I'm looking for you to finally make the necessary arrangements so that the open-air museum can get the necessary funding in the next few days. This request was made thanks to the helpful climber FPÖ, and I still do not know why you have agreed to it. It's not about saving. That's going to be Mr Kurzmann here today – “our money for our people”, Götz-Pension, we know – we have to explain: why, with the approval of the FPÖ of this paper, which is not even worth the paper itself, Mrs Aiblinger and Fuhrmann should be decided here with the approval of the FPÖ, as an amendment. [[Call the SPÖ:Ablinger! Ablinger!]] We will, of course, agree with the amendment tabled by the Greens, just like our own, my request, which gives us the opportunity to debate here now, for the third time, because it is much more going on than this disintegration of the Federal Government, which means nothing more than leaving the open-air museum its own destiny. We certainly do not participate in this, but we stand at this open-air museum, we stand for our folk culture, and that also in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23659	Only in the middle of the order, Mr Grosz: You could talk for another 11 minutes, your group still has 19 minutes of remaining speaking time. [[Call the SPÖ:Pst! It was my most fervent wish.]] Perhaps Mr Westenthaler will do so. [[Heterogeneousness and applause with SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Tadler.]] The next speaker was Mr Kurzmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23715	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of the tax deductibility of cultural sponsorship is an old concern of the Freedom Party, but in the past it has already been represented by other political groups. [[Prolonged calls.]] The fact that a reform of Austrian art promotion is long overdue, ladies and gentlemen, is beyond doubt, because at present we have something that we can describe as a subsidy monopoly of the public hands, which has led to a hidden dependence on artists and cultural creators – keyword state artists. In the past too, state artists, ladies and gentlemen, have been very long and very much discussed. [[Abg. Grosz: A president who has no respect in this House, and then...!]] State artists, these are – in order to define this clearly – actually all those who gamble at chancellor parties or advertise themselves in various ads as a promoter for the re-election of certain politicians. The aim must be in this area – and I believe that we all agree –: Less state, more private. That is what we stand for as a liberal. That means: Private art expenditure is to be more tax deductible and recognised in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second, very important and important issue, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of the financial rescue of the open-air museum in Stübing. This is really an Austrian museum, it is not a Styrian regional museum. That is why it is true that it is discussed here in the National Council and not only in the Styrian Landtag. But we also need to take note – and this is important – of the fact that five ministries and nine federal states are involved. All these parties must agree that this is an important stock of our Austrian – and not just the Styrian – folk culture. Stübing was opened in 1970 by then Federal Minister Dr. Dremmel, but also by the important Styrian art promoter, Landesrat Hanns Koren. We need a quick solution, Mrs Federal Minister. I know that you will make an effort, and we trust that in Bälden we will come to a positive solution to the financial question – in the interests of Austrian folk culture, in the interests of Austrian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23764	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23815	Mr President. High house! In recent months, we have been able to... [[Calls and calls between representatives of the BZÖ and SPÖ.]] Now we have a double conference: Grosz against the rest of the world or against – don't I know? [[New calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Football fits, good. In recent months, for example, we have been able to learn in Salzburg what forms there can be in art and cultural sponsorship. Do the current situation at I certainly don't want to comment on the Salzburg Easter Festival anymore at this time. With the opening of this summer festival on 26. In Salzburg, however, thanks be to God again the great sponsors and mäzene of art promotion to Austria. As we heard in the last committee, you, Mrs Bundesminister, made a clear and clear commitment by the state to the promotion of art. That's good. But should not, in addition to the already existing state cultural subsidies, also private and companies be more involved in the promotion of art and culture than sponsors? Those who sponsor today demand public in return – a large festival or large exhibitions immediately meet these wishes. However, the influence of the sponsors, ladies and gentlemen, must never go so far that the sponsor determines what the artist has to do. Even the inclusion of the sponsor's products in a work of art is a gratification and rarely succeeds. Sponsors must prove a benefit to their customers and/or employees. A sponsor's own decree, Mrs Minister, the Ministry of Finance, lays down the conditions for the tax decommissioning of contributions as operating expenditure. However, if the grant of the sponsor exceeds the advertising consideration of the beneficiary, one assumes that the donation character of the donation is not detractable. Large companies – as we know – have the opportunity to collect collections of contemporary art in countless foundations because of tax deductibility. This tax incentive, ladies and gentlemen, should also apply to small and medium-sized enterprises and private enterprises. Art and cultural promotion have a very great tradition in Austria. This tradition has been highly respected by state support in recent years. But now, Mrs Minister, it is time, especially – we have heard this today – to make private sponsoring more attractive in economically beaten, very difficult times, and to give it far-reaching agility. - Thank you. It's all right, the game starts.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23872	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23894	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I would like to say that we all work overpaid here, and the only one who is for nothing – for nothing – is quite obviously colleague Grosz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on the film promotion situation in Austria. – Mrs Unterlander said that she was sad. Mrs. Colleague! That's probably a strong overwriting. The film promotion situation in Austria is a very good, a very professional: The federal government spends a lot of money here, the federal states contribute to it, the ORF spends a lot of money on film promotion, even from the EU. I have the number from 2008: A total of € 58 million was distributed in 2008 in film funding in Austria. Even more efficient, even more flexible film promotion is now being made. Who? – This has already been dealt with in a very detailed way in the debate today. I can thank Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied for putting this into practice. Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ, you want to orient film promotion very clearly on quantity, on the number of spectators – then we would have to promote the transfers of the football world championship, but not the artistic, high-quality film. [[Abg. May. Stefan:... don't look at anyone!]] We stay with it: The artistic aspect is very important to us. I can say something else as a musician. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who is art for?]] Your contradiction lies on the table: On the one hand, you want to promote private sponsorship, and on the other hand you demand funds from the federal government, for example for the Wagner festival. I'm a treasurer, a real lover of Wagner's music, but I have to ask you: I can't resist the feeling of a penetrating ideological background. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, spare Richard Wagner with your intercession! In this sense – thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23950	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e23971	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm making it adjusted to time short and short. First of all, I would like to thank all the political groups, without exception, all of them: Open-air museum Stübing is an all-party consensus; in terms of content, we all agree that this is a museum that has over-regional, beyond the national and federal borders. We have also set up all the initiatives. [[Abg. Grosz: Then do something! Three black ministries blocking!]] We don't need to blame each other, who has done more or less. I really find it very encouraging that the parliamentary parties here also accept a little of the Styrian head of state, marked by heavy fatigue in office, and help him to represent Styrian issues, because the link to Vienna should be a little disturbed. Only the way there is different, Mr Grosz! The path you are looking for, the path that the Greens are also addressing, is a quick help – with the casting can go to stop the budget hole. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] We believe that it makes sense and the open-air museum Stübing has also deserved to ensure it permanently, put it on healthy structural legs, and not to keep it in the Styrian election campaign for a mini-notification in a spat-post newspaper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Grosz: Sustainable and evaluate the two best words of the year! No one understands! The problem is...!]] Sustainably secure, that's our concern. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Dear Gerald Grosz, because you talked about pain money: When I look at how often you are at the speaker's desk – we truly deserve this pain money.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24049	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24070	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that there is nothing to say about Mr Sacher and his Wagner's efforts, but now to Mr Zinggl and Mrs Schwentner; today we are dealing with the Philharmoniker complex of the Greens. It should be noted that: Both the music and the quality are female. Finally, distinguish consistently between the State Opera Orchestra and the Association of the Vienna Philharmonic! Allow an association to choose its members if they are to serve the purpose of the association! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Take note that in both bodies men and women have equal opportunities! [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Don't!]] In the State Opera Orchestra you only get through an anonymous test game where the best or the best is chosen, whether man or woman. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: You believe that!]] Do not devalue the achievements of the successful women through an hourly quota! Quality and quota have only the first two letters in common. Let it be allowed that two Vienna orchestras, which, due to an autonomous association statute, are constantly identical over time, which are among the best orchestras in the world, are hanging signs and ambassadors of Austria, can maintain their standard autonomously! In any case, these two orchestras are unique and unmistakable as sound bodies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] Quotes of the most important conductors, but also composers of the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries. ==References====External links== It was only recently that Ö1 heard a statement from the great Bruno Walter about the incomparable continuity of the orchestral sound, also called Wiener Klangstil. Allow these sound bodies to continue to claim their highest quality claim against your quota with the absolute danger of levelling down in the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schwentner: The quotas...!]] Don't stir the envy just because members of these orchestras are also teachers at the music universities! Allow these gifted and diligent people who live the profession and vocation to pass on their experiences, their skills and their musicality! Not for nothing we enjoy the inflow of students from all over the world. Her economic redistribution, class struggle and gender ideology has lost absolutely nothing in art! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I must not let the honourable Member of the SPÖ and ÖVP go through an embarrassment: Its opinion shall be as follows: “The Cultural Committee assumes that the Vienna Philharmonics... undertake to...” – and so on – is more than embarrassing. Since when has legislation been incorporated into a private association whose statutes are legal?- Oh, my God! – Otherwise, the club would not be allowed at all. Is there soon a committee statement on the establishment of football teams? Or the ski trips of a ski club? Or about the cultural journey of a senior association? Finally, Mr Zinggl and Mr Schwentner: Just today, 150. I am pleased to note that Gustav Mahlers, who also conducted these two orchestras, is still the same today in the State Opera Orchestra and in the Vienna Philharmonic of Sound as under the conductor Gustav Mahlers, because the same tradition is kept alive in the orchestra. Such a thing is unique and world heritage suspect. Mr Zinggl, Mrs Schwentner, enjoy your backyard music biotope with autodidactic didgeridoo bells and bush drums! Don't be afraid of that, enjoy it! But let artists and artists carry the reputation of Austria as a cultural nation into the world invariably!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24170	Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24192	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The novelle on the Film Promotion Act – I am pleased to have an expected broad agreement after we have discussed very thoroughly in committee – is important for the film industry. I do not want to go into detail now, but one point is important to me, and I refer to your request, Mrs Unterlander: Film funding, if we consider it to be art and cultural promotion, will always be risk financing and therefore is not to be placed under commercial exploitation aspects. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] On the comments by Mr Zinggl and also referring to you, honourable Member Fuhrmann, on the issues of cessio legis, copyright, but also on the issues of digitization, and I am also thinking of the discussion in the Cultural Committee on Digitalisation National Library: I would very much welcome the broad discussion on these issues, especially in the field of copyright, including the Ministry of Justice, because these are topics that must be dealt with urgently from the point of view of artists. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now on the topic of the Museum of Folk Science and People's History: I emphasize that this – perhaps it is important now to formulate clearly – seems to me to be very interesting and culturally following the basic concept of a common development. Organizational and legal questions must at least be clarified according to my understanding of the integration of the Art History Museum, and I am not yet able to make a decision-making paper in order to make appropriate adjustments. Just a few sentences to the State Opera Orchestra – about the meaning has already been discussed –: I would like to stress once again that I am very glad that it has succeeded in reaching a common solution to the Republic Treaty on the one hand – that is the association of the Vienna Philharmonic – and on the other hand, I am pleased that it has succeeded in coming to a very good solution with the Vienna State Opera Orchestra, which is essential for the development and cultural quality of the Vienna State Opera, in conjunction with these three areas, also in the context of the new Collecti Treaty: increase the number of samples, participation of the service provider in the composition of the orchestra; Keywords: Substitutions, a problem that we have repeatedly discussed in the past. I note only once again that the members of the State Opera Orchestra are federal staff and therefore the Federal Equal Treatment Act must also be applied. The topic of open-air museum Stübing: I am grateful to Mr Grosz for the differentiated presentation and would like to encourage Mr Kurz that we work intensively on solving this issue and, above all, on the financing problem. Interministerial coordination is under way. I assume that it is very quickly – I am speaking specifically to Mr Kurzmann – that there is a special meeting of the board of trustees on this issue very quickly. [[Abg. Grosz: (Entering the hall) There I am!]] It is not only a question of providing €300 000 ad hoc now, but we need this funding every year, because it is about the continuation of this unique institution in Austria. In conclusion, Mr Stadler also spoke on the topic of Augarten: I note that my Ministry's competence is given in the area of Federal Monumental Office and that there is a decisive decision here of the first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24253	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24275	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Schmied has just carried out what the contracts with the State Opera Orchestra look like, so only a word about the Vienna Philharmonic. What do we want? – Of course, at the Vienna Philharmonic we wish for equal opportunities for women as for men in this world-famous orchestra. Unfortunately, it doesn't play at the moment. Why? – Mr Rosenkranz has referred to it: the Vienna Philharmonics are a private association. No one can prescribe a private club to whom it employs, no one can prescribe which members it receives and which one does not. On the question of quota, for which the Green Group is very committed: A women's quota wouldn't make any sense with a private club. Here the quota has no chance at all and is therefore toothless. Nevertheless, a compliment to the applicant, Mr Zinggl: Complementary to you, such men we need, men who are so committed to equal opportunities for women – worthy of imitation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24311	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24332	Mrs. Minister! High house! The request made by the colleague on art sponsorship was rejected by us in the Committee on Culture, because the request calls for a withdrawal of state art promotion and for increased private sponsorship. We want and confess very clearly to the responsibility of the state in the promotion of culture, because for the development of cultural institutions in an artistic perspective, a legally sound basis and multi-annual investment plans are key elements. Artists make an indispensable contribution to the public discourse and thus to a pluralistic fundamental order of our state. And yes, funding programmes for contemporary art must of course be constantly developed and adapted to the changing art concept. Therefore, I would also like to address three important areas of support: First of all, the promotion of young people to give young artists opportunities in the national and international art market. Secondly, the promotion of women in the arts and culture industry, as they are often structurally disadvantaged. Thirdly, the promotion of the cultural and creative economy. . Let me address this point in a little more detail. Especially in recent years, the cultural and creative industries have made an indispensable contribution to economic growth. The cultural and creative economy creates jobs and contributes to the unmistakability of our society. The majority of these cultural enterprises are micro and micro-enterprises, and in order to benefit from the opportunities of globalisation and digitisation and to develop their full creative and economic potential, we need appropriate frameworkbed I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. This includes, in addition to many other conditions, fair access to capital. This capital should come mainly from public financial resources, but I do not want to take responsibility from the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24387	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24408	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In view of Mr Grosz's very emotional speech and also because of the press release made today in connection with the open-air museum in which he referred to the Members of the Free Party as 'hands', I would like to try again the quotation of Humboldt, which reads: Man first becomes man through language. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Mr Grosz, I find such statements embarrassing. I do not find it embarrassing if someone represents another opinion or other access. However, statements like these are embarrassing and have nothing to look for here in the House! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] I mean, Mr Grosz, it would really be time to think: Even if you represent different opinions, if you represent different approaches, one should be safeguarded, namely respect for the dissidents. But obviously this is not on your agenda. Of course we also recognize the cultural value and we also recognize the cultural value of the open-air museum Stübing. The woman minister once again stressed that it is also important for us to maintain this museum. It makes the € 73 000 available annually, even this year the money will be made available. We want a sustainable solution. A solution that not only ensures existence for this day, but also secures it for the future. I believe that the 27a proposal, which has already been decided on in committee, ensures exactly that, because all responsible locations are involved and the federal states are also involved. The aim is to preserve the museum. This is also important for us, Mr Grosz, and certainly not only for the Members of the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24457	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24479	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have been deleted, but Mr Zinggl challenges it again today: This conscious misinformation you have done here today, which you have been providing in Leopoldstadt for weeks and months. Citizens complain about your misinformation. It is true that the People's Procuratorate and Mrs. Volksanwältstin Stoisits in the course of the Augarten project, because one has approached her, verify whether there has been an abuse. To this day 21 o'clock or more exactly 20.30 o'clock on the public prosecutor's website there is no finding of an abuse. Mr Zinggl, take note that the authorities have acted correctly by now! If you do not have it, the legal path is available to you at any time. Mr Zinggl, you have also mis-quoted the Volksanwälter Stoisits again today. That's what you do in the district, and I strongly advise you: Stop with this misinformation, return to cultural debates, and explain here that you have something against the Vienna boys! This is a cultural project that doesn't fit you, you can stand for it, but carry it out at the cultural level – and not at the authority level! Then: The authorities have acted correctly. Your mistrust is the Vienna singer boy, and I can only say: We stand on classical and modern music, which is our cultural policy approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24524	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Film Funding Act, together with the title and receipt in 675 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. On the ground, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the situation of film promotion in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is clearly not the majority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 811 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 109.) We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 812 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 813 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 814 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 815 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of women in the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 816 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 817 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 110.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues, on ensuring the financing of the Austrian Open Air Museum in Stübing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:55:39]] Vote on agenda items 18 and 19
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24695	We are now moving to the vote on agenda items 18 and 19, which I make separately with each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Draft federal law amending the 2010 Federal Finance Act in 752 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment which has an amendment to the introductory phrase and paragraph 3. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt as amended by the Government's proposal and taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Draft federal law amending the Federal Finance Act, the Federal Budget Act and the Federal Budget Act 2013, together with the title and receipt in 775 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign on this matter. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:57:48]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-07-07-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e24783	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 1197/A to 1226/A were tabled. Questions 5934/J to 6016/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 8. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
