ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4186	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 64 and 65. Meeting of 5. In May 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Faul, Fürntrath-Moretti and Mag are reported as prevented. Korun. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4217	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann will be appointed by the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister of Finance Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll. [[09:04:15]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4253	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4467	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4492	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. In principle, the debate on EU declarations does not fall into the day-to-day block period, in accordance with § 74b of the Rules of Procedure (Tagesordnung item 1). A 7 ‘Vienna hours’ day block time for agenda items 2 to 5 has been proposed so that the following speeches can be made: SPÖ and ÖVP per 98 minutes, FPÖ 88 minutes, Green 77 and BZÖ 74 minutes. The ORF will transfer the meeting live by 1 p.m. On the basis of the debate on 19 June. Presidential Decisions taken on May 2010 are agreed on the structure of the debate or on television speaking time: Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 74b of the Rules of Procedure: both members of the government each 12 minutes, then rounds of speakers according to the strength of the political groups according to § 74b para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure with 125 minutes, so that an overall speaking time of 149 minutes is reached. The call for speakers is based on the strength of the political groups. The debate on the submissions of the Financial Committee (Payment Balance Stabilisation Act Novelle and Novelle on the Interbank Strengthening Act) is divided as follows: a speaker round with 4 minutes each, a member of the government of the ÖVP with 5 minutes, then another round of the delegates with 3 minutes, a member of the SPÖ government with 5 minutes and then a speaker round with 3 minutes each, so that a total of 60 minutes. The call for the rounds of speakers takes place according to the principle of contra/pro. Before the last round of speakers, the remaining television speaking time will be evenly divided among the political groups. Actual corrections are only called after television transmission. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:07:16]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to § 74b GOG-NR on the issue of the stabilisation of the common European currency and the lessons from the Greek crisis
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4562	We now proceed to item 1 of the agenda. Following this declaration, a debate will take place within the meaning of § 74b of the Rules of Procedure. I now give the floor to the Federal Chancellor and put the clock at 12 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4589	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! If one compares the countries of the euro area, one finds that they could not be different. This was also, when the eurozone was founded and expanded, most clearly – perhaps not all, and perhaps many did not admit it in the necessary clarity, but I do not think it makes sense to imagine that the countries of the eurozone in their structure, in their economic strength, such as in the field of the shadow economy, to issues such as corruption, and that it would now be only the task of joint work in the euro area to organise this equality of countries, this absolute comparability. We are therefore actually faced with the task – as I am convinced, not only last week and this week, but also over the next few years – of responding to the differences that exist in the euro area countries and also of acting to achieve a common social and economic policy. Now the issue of European economic government is always to be seen on two sides. When it comes to taking up the fight against speculation, supporting the currency to stand up for each other where it is reasonable to coordinate conditions which one sets, when it comes to verifying compliance with conditions laid down in terms of financial market supervision, then one wants to have a common economic and social government. When it comes to giving individual countries what measures they should take to achieve the objectives set in their country, we do not want a common economic and social government, because we believe that these decisions have to be taken here in the Austrian Parliament, but they are also influenced by different socio-political approaches. The question is whether a budget is being put in order by turning on the lawn mower and passing it over, or by putting a budget in order by weighting, for example, in favour of education and research, and also by recognizing the increased importance for certain areas in economically difficult times, that is reflected in the budget and weighting in the decisions, how and where one can save more and what measures – socially fair of course – can provide for appropriate revenue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Europe, fiscal consolidation, including within the euro area – which is probably a prerequisite for not being dependent on debt and interest payments – does not lead to a way to guarantee the stability of the currency in the long term. The question is just how to deal with this budget consolidation. The joint statement shows whether joint controls are being carried out to ensure compliance with the conditions and requirements laid down. The joint statement shows whether we are in a position, for example, to create a rating agency in Europe and not to leave the assessment to private companies in the United States, whether one is willing, after almost three years – take the subprime crisis – at last to take the consequences, while also stating that it is necessary to install a financial market supervision that has something to talk about and which really deserves these names. The same applies to other regulations. I also regard it as a success – like many others who have spoken about it – if you look at hedge funds, but that won't be all. The question that the European population will be very interested in over the next few months is what we call liability shield, what we provide in loans, what we assume in liabilities within the euro area – with the same commitment, by ensuring that such crises belong to the past and not repeat themselves as an independent “market”. If we want to break this “automatic” that we are going from a crisis to the next, from one problem to the next – and always we are liable for each other – we must act jointly and decisively in the European Union, in various areas. This includes liability for each other in essential areas, but also the fight against speculation. In the next few weeks, if what is in the room again and again – financial transaction tax, financial market supervision, rating agency, ban on low sales, clear rules for financial markets et cetera – is decided, then I would be the first to mention this with enthusiasm, since I would wish for it myself. However, I can only tell you at the hour that we are making massive efforts to do so, but can not yet tell you about decisions – in particular regarding financial transaction tax, rating agency and the above-mentioned regulations – that we want to do so. In the public debate and in political commitment, wherever we are responsible and acting in Europe, this federal government is showing determination for all those things and measures that we are committed to in this context, and I think this is the right thing to do. This is certainly not a distraction discussion to go back to the agenda quickly, but it is a serious discussion that decides whether citizens will have confidence in the European Union in the future, whether they see what has been firmly put on their feet with liabilities in the euro area, with the same determination towards combating speculation, creating common revenue, for example through a transaction tax. In my opinion, it is very important to involve citizens in all this and to remember that a citizens' initiative in the European Union, which was created by the principle of the Lisbon Treaty and which must be implemented in autumn by implementing provisions, is available as a clear instrument within the European Union, because citizens have a right to articulate their views, what they think about this speculation and what they expect from policy. It was the Federal Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, who said yesterday that she was very positive about the Citizens' Initiative instrument – and that they also consider this to be a very useful idea for those countries that are more reluctant to act in this respect. Now I know that Austria is a country where there is a Parliamentary decision on transaction tax – not for all other measures to combat speculation, but at least for transaction tax – and I am very proud of that. But from a decision to a determined appearance to the last minute, that is to say until the introduction, it is still a further way. Between the heading transaction tax and the quality, what it really brings and what part it has in the payment of the damage to the crisis, it is also a further way. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make no mention of this, but to say: I believe that the debate at European level is developing in the right direction, but there is no way of knocking on one's shoulder as regards loans and liabilities that are necessary, but that consequences must be drawn from this crisis. A positive report can only be drawn up in the end. Now our political commitment is in demand, especially in the next few days and weeks. I would like to stress this once again: The measures taken by the European Union to create economic packages were correct. The European Union's action was also right to ensure that, in the euro zone, when someone is in difficulty, we are able – under certain conditions and under certain conditions and under these conditions – to implement measures for each other, such as in the form of loans or liabilities – measures that you are aware of. However, the same commitment is necessary in order to learn lessons from the crisis and to ensure that revenue that has nothing to do with mass taxes is achieved, and I mention, as one of these measures, the financial transaction tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Federal Chancellor, you must tell the man next to you, not us! He's sitting next to you, raising taxes!]] In Austria we have the second lowest unemployment rate in Europe, as well as the second lowest youth unemployment rate. I should like to draw attention to our businesses, to our small and medium-sized enterprises, whose importance in the crisis is particularly important, because they have a significant share of the employment situation in Austria, and also to the social partners whose joint cooperation also works in the crisis, which shows that we are better off than others. We can prove that in many areas we have decided correctly, set the course correctly and put in place proper measures, but of course we also have a lot of work ahead of us. Both in matters of education and training and in research and development, it is about who, as it were, will have the nose in the competition or in the case of new technologies. The last word has not yet been spoken, and there are still many measures to be taken, but of course this has to be found in the budget of the next few years. We from the Federal Government – everyone in their place, everyone in their function, everyone in the area for which they are responsible – have taken correct action in the crisis, but I am not so superlative to say, so we are through the crisis, because I know – just as you, ladies and gentlemen – that we still have many tasks to solve. However, if we do so with the same determination as we have so far put in place in Austria, we can also be confident that national opportunities will be used in our own country to deal socially with both revenue and expenditure. Proposals should be reviewed for their social justice and their sensuality, and these must be discussed with you at the specified dates here in the house. It is not, therefore, a matter of saying: What does not work at European level is not to be considered in one's own country at all! Yes, there are measures that are only possible at international level, there are measures that are only possible at European level, but there are also measures that are possible at national level. – We all need three levels to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4699	I now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor and set the clock at 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The last days and weeks were very intense. These were days of decision-making for Europe, for the euro, and thus also for Austria. I am very happy and thank you very much for being able to inform the House very quickly about the measures taken on the Greek package, but also on the liability shield for stabilising and saving the euro, by the President-in-Office of Parliament. I am also pleased that today's declaration and the necessary debate and decision-making in Austria together with the other European countries will show how we will deal with the crisis that has not yet been overcome, but which is now facing the third great wave – after the financial crisis and the real economic crisis – of the whole country. That will ask us, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Chancellor referred to it. I see this as very positive when I hear this debate here in Parliament. In any event, we should not go into party politics if we also practice blatant criticism and deal with the key points and decisions. However, we must never explore that the decision in the European Union after the Summit of Heads of Government and Finance Ministers represents an indispensable contribution to the stabilisation of the euro and the European Union. Angela Merkel says: Death of the euro, death of Europe. – This is not a short sentence, it shows the drama of these days. – Along these foundations, we should hold the discussion, what to do and what needs to be done here in Parliament today. Ladies and gentlemen, what would have been the alternative? – Economic researchers say: If the euro area breaks apart and Europe gets under pressure, this alone means a loss of export quality and exports of €20 to 40 billion and a loss of 50 000 to 100 000 jobs for Austria. This crisis then goes very close to the people and to the substance of the country, and then it does not have to be rescued somewhere, but it would be hard to threaten or ruin Austria's economy and jobs and directly affect hundreds of thousands of people. That is why it was and is necessary to do what is necessary in Europe together and also in Austria in national implementation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What did we do? – We initially stabilized Greece with loans with two large blocks. The first amount of € 454 million is from Öster- rich already flown. But we have done more, with the liability shield that we have put up together in Europe, and it is a positive message that we are not going into a new framework of liability for the Republic beyond what is foreseen for Greece – no additional, fresh money and no increased liability framework for the Republic, but we are changing internally accordingly. [[In the series of FPÖs, a transparency is shown by Members: “What is the matter with our own country? Tax money to Greece!– The FPÖ sees it differently: No to 17 billion gift to Greece! Austria first!"]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question “Who cares about their own country?” you can see here who...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4778	Mr. Vice-Chancellor, please wait a minute. The Freedom Party or the Freedom Club has shown its transparency. I'm trying to clean it up now! [[Intervening calls and detonatative appeal to the FPÖ.]] Please speak again, Mr Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4802	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can answer the question of who cares about Austria as follows: The people in charge are sitting here on the government bank and also in the responsible groups of the great coalition, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In one of the most difficult phases the country has seen since 1945, we keep course and give the right answers. We don't hoist, but we're gonna get together and decide the right things. These are the moments when it is about responsibility and not the opposite, namely populism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is an increase of taxpayers!]] This is also reflected in the measures. We will have to provide €15 billion from Austria for the liability shield, but I am not willing to accept additional liability for the Republic of Austria, ladies and gentlemen – and that is responsible for Austria! – but we will reduce the bank liability shield by €15 billion, which has often been criticized by you, and will provide these 15 billion without a euro in addition to helping in Europe. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] This is an intelligent rework, so it should be, and this will also achieve a corresponding effect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is on the way to the future as a lesson from the crisis and what is to be done? – There must be a package of different measures. We have made very clear signals in Europe in recent hours. The crisis we are in is mainly a debt crisis in countries where expenditure culture has ruled as if there were no tomorrow. This is the basis of the problem we have. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This process of spending money without thinking of tomorrow and the next generations was the feeding ground for speculators who could attack. Therefore, it is the future task of removing the soil from the race, namely to reduce the debt and deficits and then to take the speculators accordingly to the leash. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's hedge fund regulation was a big and important step. This made it successful for the first time, €2,000 billion – an incredible sum! – to take on board funds in Europe. That's a great success we've been fighting for. That's a success! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we also need to discuss a debt brake together in Europe. This afternoon, in connection with the Federal Financial Framework Act, we will hold the discussion on expenditure and savings frameworks in Austria until 2014. – This will also be a model for the European Union and for all countries that have not complied with any rules. This will force them to plan for the longer term and to keep their promises binding in order to avoid something like that in Greece. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will also be working in the Task Force, which will be held for the first time on Friday, to increase our intervention and intervention in the field of data materials by Eurostat and by other measures on the budgets as well as on economic coordination in the euro area and in Europe. It is a very important point that the European Commission, on the one hand, should be more equipped with sanctions and, on the other hand, better organise intervention and enforcement and, on the other hand, should be able to take appropriate sanctions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This will still require us, ladies and gentlemen, because some countries see it differently, but that is necessary. I am of the opinion of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he says that we do not need to use the measures in the countries to secure a European compulsory shield, but we must do something very well to strengthen the control, implementation and monitoring of the irrevocable key points of budget design – objective, deficit and debt planning – from a single point of view in Europe. We need such a controlling system, and we will introduce it accordingly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Specific proposals for speculation on the regulation of hedge funds, on my part, exist, for example, in the prohibition of uncovered empty sales on government bonds and also in the prohibition of trading of CDS products on government bonds. We need to make a massive progress in these issues and in the formations also ensure that we continue to do so in order to be able to regulate and intervene positively in financial products in addition to regulation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the question of greater concentration of supervision in Europe is also raised. We need to put national financial supervisors more closely one and in Brussels to know better when systemic risks arise beyond a country and threaten Europe accordingly for the future. This is an important, central point and an important building block for the future. Financial transaction tax and fiscal measures at European level: Yeah, I'm for the financial transaction tax. At the meeting of the Euroministers, we also saw to it that there was a unanimous agreement on the preparation and development of this tax and that we were massively moving forward this financial transaction tax at European level. It must succeed that this instrument will become reality not only in terms of financing but also in terms of the principle of greater transparency in the European Union. It is important to fight with the Heads of Government and with the Finance Ministers. We will focus on this, both on the timetable and on the question of the further development of the model. I warn you that on all these issues, we will be leaving too much time and waiting for other decisions. Rather, we simply have to make progress on this issue in order to reach a conclusion in the formations of the European Union as soon as possible. I add: We must be careful, ladies and gentlemen, that certain principles do not come under the wheels in this debate about greater economic coordination in Europe. We must not ignore the basic principle of our own economic policy and governance in Austria. In this House, however the division of tasks will be in the future, we must maintain control over our economic and fiscal policies. However, better coordination and intervention are necessary if countries do not adhere to certain basic principles. This must be the signal on the way to a sustainable economic future in Europe. We've done the necessary, right things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] This has not happened for Greece, but for Europe, for Austria and for the people who want to work and have prospects in this country. This is the basic message of the rescue shield, which is to be discussed and decided in Parliament today. In this sense, many measures have been taken, and these measures must be taken in the right direction now and in Europe. I think it is now clear to everyone that the situation is dramatic and serious and that the time of action has come. The latest decisions in the Council of Finance Ministers show that this will be understood in England and in other critical countries. That is why there is more reason for optimism than a few days and weeks ago. We are capable of action in the European Union! We've proved that. Europe is now indispensable. However, we are also capable of action in Austria, and this sign, ladies and gentlemen, can be put together today. In this sense, I would like to thank you for your support and for the rapid coordination and discussion with all the parliamentary parties in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4927	We are now going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 74b para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Cap is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e4958	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand the behaviour of parts of the opposition on this serious issue: There were gjohls, laughters, and funny calls. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, about you!]] That's what I'm Your behavior instead of thinking about how to contribute together! – My advice on parts of the opposition would be: Think less about yourself, think more about Austria! That would be more important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that it is an emotional burden for you if there is a federal government that is, as now, successful at European level! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] As Chancellor Werner Faymann, not too long ago, had a lonely calling voice cast in the EU transaction tax, you stood here and said: How should an Austrian Chancellor make appropriate pressure and ensure that there is a majority for it now and that it will come soon? – But now it has happened! Read the papers! Look at the minutes of the meetings! It is also necessary to address and inform the Austrian and European population in this regard and to develop pressure to ensure that this is really happening. And that at the head of this movement of the Federal Chancellors, you don't keep it. Think about it and be happy with us that there is this movement. This is in the interests of Austria, but perhaps not in your interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same is true of the fact that Mr Vice-Chancellor has now taken a step in the right direction with regard to hedge funds in the finance ministers. It's nice to see you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This, in turn, is a step for Austria and a step for those who now as taxpayers in the context of liabilities and loans ensure that our economic system, our economy and the euro remain stable, that further production can be made and that further employment can be guaranteed. It's going in the right direction, but – this was confirmed here by the government bank – of course, this has to go even further. Of course, the transparency of hedge funds must also prevent circumvention. There must be rules for third countries. In reality, there must be very precise rules when implementing them in order to put the craftsmen in place. The latter plus these super-slow investment banks have made sure that this financial and economic crisis exists, and now they want to take responsibility. They want to cover the risk and the costs, on the other hand, the taxpayers and taxpayers are to bear. To this end, we say, Social Democrats: No, it can't be that! The responsibility must be clearly borne by those! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Look at this. First, you're not loud enough. Secondly, I do not understand you. And even if I could understand you acoustically, I wouldn't understand what you're just saying. That's why it's pointless. Set up these funny calls! That would make more sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is therefore necessary to implement this transaction tax, which – you should translate this now – is an anti-speculation tax. We are on the side of those who say that the diligent entrepreneurs and the diligent workers need to be protected, supported and promoted, and not the speculators. It is therefore true that these initiatives are now taken by Austria at all levels in order to act hard against these speculators and to enforce themselves in the final effect. [[Abg. Bucher: You do exactly the opposite!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There's another thing to do here: It's also about the tax havens. It is also partly the subject of speculation by national budgets and national states. That is why it is also good that these empty sales and speculation on credit default insurance are now prohibited. This is one of the roots of this problem. I therefore believe that it is also important to deal with these tax havens, for example in the Caribbean, in the Cayman Islands or in individual small European countries. This includes Switzerland. [[Abg. Strache: What about the Voves Foundation in Styria?]] I'll tell you: This discussion on the black money in Switzerland was started from Switzerland. Helvea is a Swiss institution. You can read all this on the Internet at any time! There are up to €500 billion of black money in Switzerland. Switzerland is therefore a preferred tax haven. And if they say that they are already making a contribution in the framework of the IMF, I say: They have to, they are a member of the IMF. But there you should take a little against the proceeds from these black money. This is €16 billion in black money from Greece, and by the way, €12 billion in black money from Austria, which is a house task for us. In any case, there are 16 billion € from Greece. I think we should be able to say that without the danger that the friendship between Austria and Switzerland is at risk. Again: This discussion has taken place from Switzerland, due to the debate between the German Finance Minister Steinbrück and the US conflict with Switzerland and UBS. Let's not forget that! I mean, you should really put all the figures on the table, because the Austrian Federal Government is still standing for liabilities, for loans and for many more to stabilise the euro and its own economy and to make a contribution that it continues to go upward. It is therefore very important to me in this context to argue for the drying out of all tax havens. Everything needs to be done to counteract global tax relief. The situation of the national budgets would be quite different if it were to be possible to make more progress here! [[Abg. Kickl: This is an anti-foreign speech!]] This includes dealing with those who work here, and in turn these are the famous investment bankers. This brings me back to the first issue, the hedge funds, the pension funds and much more. Those who operate in these areas believe that laws do not apply and that tax rules are circumvented, and they find ways of legal tax relief. I have to tell you, this is also readable on the Internet: The famous Greek billionaire Spiros Latsis, which holds 12 billion € in Greek bonds, will of course benefit if there is this help. Therefore, my request: I expect that if the whole of Europe helps, Greece will finally bring to justice those who are supposedly guilty of being brought to justice by tax refugees in Greece, for once it leads to Mr Latsis who has obviously done good business. I'll tell you something. I don't care about any party, it must be those who... – You should never forget the name Karamanlis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Papandreou first!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] At least he was not entirely indifferent to his inactivity. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Papandreou is the first!]] I'm just saying, that's also an aspect that belongs to it. That means that, and that is what we are all interested in, there must be a functioning European Union, and there is Austria, which calls on the Austrian Federal Government to make a contribution. There must be a clean European Union. Here too, Austria is at the forefront, where we are really active. You should finally acknowledge this and include it in your future speeches. [[Abg. Bucher: What should we recognize?]] This is a very important aspect. But there is something more to it, because it is also about the question: Who is to blame for this situation? – We have already worked this out: These are the hedge funds, the financial crisis. [[Call FPÖ and BZÖ: Switzerland!]] [[Abg. Stache: For sure, Switzerland! With you probably Switzerland!]] - It's not Switzerland, it's nonsense. Switzerland is not at all, the Swiss banks are the ones who have done the big business. But what it really is about is: It's being played against each other! It says suddenly that the social state would be guilty, the health system, a functioning pension system would be guilty. [[Call the FPÖ:Who says that?]] All of a sudden, that's all the time. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Where did that say who? No one said that! You're saying it!]] We've lived over our conditions, it's claimed. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Androsch said that!]] - Something so absurd! Look at what is really necessary! There must be these financial market arrangements that there is no repetition of these crises. That's the decisive thing. It is very important to have a yes to sustainable savings, a yes to efficient savings, of course responsible handling of taxpayers, but certainly not a stifling of the economy, not a stifling of growth, employment and growth, as a prospect so that there is employment. [[Abg. Vilimsky: What kind of growth? Where do you live?]] You always want to be a social party – you should remember the social one a little when you make an call. In this context, the most important thing is that in crisis management, there is not suddenly a neoliberal resurrection and everyone is told again: The social state is guilty, because that is proven to be wrong. The sufferer is the social state. The small workers, the medium-sized, who have to finance this, are the entrepreneurs, the productive economy. That is why it is about the future of Europe, about competitiveness, about education, about the model Austria, as someone has previously said from the government bank, and about the model for the European Union far beyond the borders of the European Union. For this to work, the economy must work, employment policy must work. This is very important, and the contributions to it must now be made. What we decide today is actually a decision that will be used primarily by Austria, because Greece is a trading partner, many potential other member countries of the European Union are trading partners. This ensures employment in Austria, which offers the opportunity to continue selling our products. This is to be seen as a whole: that the entire economic and monetary area is also globally competitive that we are at an eye with the Americans that we are at eye with Asia, with China. That is, I think, crucial. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is crucial, and that is why the decisions are correct today. The perspective of the regulations and the order that is being introduced goes in the right direction. We will be pressured to ensure that this is actually implemented precisely.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5234	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5258	Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! In an editorial in the press today, Josef Urschitz examined the subject of years of ignored criticism of the debt policy of many countries. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where the grasser gets away very badly!]] He put the whole thing under the title: “How to softly knock a currency through ignorance.” I mean, Urschitz is right, just as many experts are right: The cause of the financial crisis that we are currently having to discuss and resolve – unfortunately – is the massive debt of many countries, not only in Europe but almost all over the world; and this includes Austria. Mr Cap, I was not surprised, but a little disappointed that you actually want to look for the causes only with the speculators and the financial market and even with Switzerland and with tax havens. To Switzerland, just one word: Let us have a serious debate about our neighboring state. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Do we have a Swiss debate today?]] Switzerland pays twice as much as we pay to the IMF. Switzerland now has two thirds of its foreign exchange reserves in euro, which means that it is also a massive contribution to stabilising the euro. It has not deserved to be treated in this undifferentiated way. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] But, of course, the speculators are also guilty. Although they are not the cause – these are the debts – but they have acted as an amplifier to this crisis and have of course increased the problem. If the FPÖ is rolling out a poster with “Austria first!” here, please: Don't be so complacent! Firstly, we are in the euro area, and if we had not done this rescue action, we would have to suffer much more, just as many others, than now, if we had to contribute to rehabilitating the whole. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So if you say, “Austria first!” then this is in reality an outright stupidity. Because not to help would be directed exactly against Austria and against the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: On the contrary!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Complete one-dimensional!]] Second, mine. Ladies and gentlemen: Don't be so dishonest! The budgetary situation and the economic situation in Austria are also not unproblematic. 43 per cent of taxes and taxes in our country are not enough to cover government expenditure! There's something wrong with that, and there's something we have to change. An inflated administration, inefficient state enterprises such as the ÖBB or also, colleague Cap, a 30 percent social rate – all this is beautiful and good, but you have to be able to afford it and not be paid by our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means – let us be so honest! – many countries have lived before the crisis about the conditions, including Austria, and this, Mr Cap, is not, as you have said recently, cynical, but simply true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the Greens: What a fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting a credit framework for Greece, a framework of liability for stabilising the euro to an extent that many people cannot imagine. People are also afraid, people are insecure. But all the experts tell us that what we are doing here is ultimately also necessary to safeguard our prosperity. [[Abg. Strache: Who are these experts?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to learn from this crisis and these necessary measures: tough conditions for the so-called Nehmer countries, effective budgetary control, which we too have to question, but we have nothing to fear, control of financial markets, strong European financial market supervision, control of financial markets. Yes, we need European rating agencies that are not dependent on banks and international companies. We need arrangements for hedge funds, congratulations Mr. Finance Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What regulations?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What regulations? That's a joke!]] We need, for example, bans on short selling, as the Germans have already decided, and we also need to speed up the financial markets. A financial transaction tax, Mr Bundeskanzler, can, of course, also contribute to this. But, Chancellor of the Federal Republic, if we were to shape it as, as you once thought, pure exchange sales tax, then it would miss its purpose. It might bring money into the cash register, but in the financial market it certainly does not create the steering effect that we actually need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Who, ladies and gentlemen, is paying the repair costs? – Unfortunately, we will all have to pay them, measured by and according to the performance of each individual. In other words, banks will have to bear the costs via a bank levy, the speculators through a financial transaction tax, but also the citizens, the farmers, self-employed, employees, officials. If we have to save in our budgets, unfortunately, there will no longer be a number of achievements to the extent that we are used to today. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not serious to make people believe, with a few measures against speculators and against ‘G’stopping’, as one would like to say, to solve the problem, and then we could continue as before the crisis. No, no, no, We must recognise and admit that the constant over-the-ratio life of many countries, including Austria, is the cause of the crisis. If we do not eliminate this cause, then we land faster than all of us can love in the next crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, we are not at all about resolving and improving those structural problems which we also have in Austria and which were there before the crisis – in the healthcare system, in the pension system, in the administration, also in the promotion sector. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You've seen this with the teachers!]] Professor Aeginger, the party's policy, has given some good guidance at the SPÖ club. It may not have been in the SPÖ, but it has called for no single entry into the financial transaction tax to carry out expenditure-side reorganisation of the budget to carry out intelligent privatizations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was a direct error!]] I think this would be an opportunity, for example, to get money into a future fund that we urgently need to advance offensives in innovation, education, research, new products and exports. This would bring us growth, and growth would bring us money into the cash register, which we might otherwise have to bring in through corrections to tax laws. So we prefer to focus on increased growth in our country, because this also automatically brings more prosperity to our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We do not pretend to be able to continue in Austria as before, because then we will surely land quickly in the next crisis throughout Europe and all over the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5490	Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5512	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I can still recall the special presidials that took place last week, in which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany was strangely not present. He did not seem to have felt that it was important enough to inform the club members and the Presidents of the National Council of the procedure, which was discussed in the European Union last week, and thus allowed commitments to be made here in the House without debate. Mr. Vice-Chanzler was present and, literally, spoke of it, with a very pale face, that we have never been in such a serious crisis since the 1930s. Literally, he gave it to the best, so to speak. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] . I say that if, in comparison, your statements from today lead to contemplation, then one must be in part embarrassingly touched. If then you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, talk about Spiros Latsis, the richest Greek, who was full of speculation, now – thanks to you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, thanks to the SPÖ! – billions of Austrian taxpayers get money so he can pull his head out of the loop, then it's last-class. Last-class is what you offered here today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is the “SPÖ section golf course” on the go and not what you are trying to say! What is currently happening around the Greece package, which is being decided today, is that you are talking about it and not even talking to the core, reminds a little of the Titanic. That actually reminds us of the Titanic: The politicians of red and black dance on the upper deck and try to be celebrated as a savior while the media orchestra plays a few fleeting melodies, but the passengers under deck, speak to Austrian taxpayers, the water to the neck stands because of what you do by putting our Austrian tax money into bank and insurance packages. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It should not be surprising that, in view of this drive, in which the Austrians have to watch without letup, what you are finally doing to the best, many are starting to think about whether they should not panic. These patterns of behavior that you show make you really unintegrated when you look at the facts. The European Union is building a so-called rescue shield across the minds of citizens of the European Union of €750 billion, in which Austria is involved, with €2.3 billion from the budget, with a further €15 billion declaration of liability, which – you have to assume seriously – will certainly be beaten. We will not ever see a single cent again, and of course public debt will continue to grow, although thanks to this ÖVP/SPÖ government, we are already uplifting our children €13 billion in 2010 on further debt. In addition, there is also a small hidden 4-billion-€ package over the Austrian National Bank. Summa summarum € 21.3 billion – and that's where you stand and talk about a great success for the Austrian population?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No Greek, no Greek citizen will have anything of it, no Austrian will get any advantage from it, but Mr. Bank Directors, Mr. Konrad & Co, will have their joy because they are actually serving the banks. Those banks that have carefully speculated now get their head out of the loop again from you. In Greek mythology, there are the Danaids, the daughters of Danaos, who had to draw water into a well-drenched barrel to punish their acts in the underworld. – That’s exactly what happens to Greece now! We will still find ourselves in a situation where I will ask myself what sins the Austrian taxpayers have actually committed, that they are so severely punished by this federal government. That will actually be the case. What is the effect of the money now used by this Federal Government in the responsibility of SPÖ and ÖVP against the interests of Austrian taxpayers? Who is beneficial? – Of course, it is the banks and the insurance companies! The Belgian newspaper “De Morgen” only wrote correctly on Monday – I quote –: “In a wild hunt for increasing profits, the banks worldwide had accumulated unsustainable bonds. The solution was to collect the debt through the intervention of the State. They have been moved by the banks to state budgets – and thus to us, the taxpayers.” That's exactly what's happening – and you're the handiworker for it, Mr. Cap! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't need to talk about your social responsibility anymore. There's an a social policy that you have to answer. I'm just saying, “Thank you”, Mr Bundeskanzler, “thank you”, Mr Vice-Chancellor! This is exactly the point that must be addressed to the Austrians. They are all talking about a ‘Greece aid package’, although no Greek citizen will feel anything about it. That is also the reason why the Greeks – rightly! – go to the street. They know how they have been deceived by their own government, but also by the European Union with this so-called Greece package, which does not benefit Greeks, but only banks. This is another bank aid package, so that those banks that have speculated in coins will have no losses in the end. I say quite clearly: Those who have earned in business must also bear the risks and be liable for any losses! It is no coincidence that the financial investors who have invested in Greece's bonds have now called the loudest after a rescue operation. Once again, they want to dump their losses to the general public of European citizens. But it can't be repeated. You would be asked, in your political responsibility, to act differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And of course there are other ways and other possibilities. This crisis also shows that the introduction of the euro from the outset was not sufficiently well thought out. I was really embarrassed today when Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said: It must be considered that, of course, different economies exist, including different speeds, that must of course be taken into account in the overall development of the euro! – At the time, before the introduction of the euro, who exactly showed these processes and warned against carrying out the introduction of the euro in this way? – That was the Freedom Party of Austria! We were, and unfortunately we were right. That's the point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time, they told us what great approvals there will be that one can only survive if one introduces the euro. Let us look at Switzerland today, which is presented by Mr Cap as a devil, which one must clearly reject! Switzerland has not gone down because it has kept the franc. Switzerland is not in front of the bankruptcy you predicted for Austria at the time if we do not give up the schilling. You claimed all these untruths at the time – today the Austrians themselves can make a good picture. In an admittedly very provocative article in the current issue of the news magazine “Der Spiegel” the Dutch writer Leon de Winter – I quote – writes: “I have not forgotten the arguments made to the citizens of Europe of the euro. In an increasingly global world, our national currencies would not survive. The euro would be so strong that it could address all the problems. The first real Euro crisis brings an end to these myths.” – So far as Leon de Winter is right. That is exactly what it is – and we unfortunately have to experience God today! From the very beginning, the euro was a pure headbirth that could not keep pace with reality; it is now clearer than ever. Greece is not the cause of the problems we face today, but Greece is the most violent symptom of this crisis that we have to warn or warn against, and which will develop. You will, please, not want to make it clear to the citizens today that the aid package for Greece will solve the problem. Spain and Portugal are on the verge of the next crisis. What 100- and 1 000-billion-€ packages will you try to capture? You can't explain that to anyone! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You need to make a cut now. If one is responsible, one must consider making a different currency zone possible in the Mediterranean so that the economies there can find out from the crisis, can also help the citizens to live again – and not the euro will be put right into a situation in which it will be brought down and perhaps we will experience hyperinflation in the end. You have to deal with the subject honestly. It is not supposed to be as if this problem were not threatening. Auxiliary payments, which are decided by you today, which only benefit banks and no citizen, are simply irresponsible, and we will therefore clearly show this here. We will point out that this cannot continue with your responsibility. We need the self-responsibilities of the individual states, and we must not make the mistake of moving towards central planning. All the experts you have spoken about today are exactly those EU experts who have misrepresented us in all areas in recent years. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The enlargement of the EU and the development of the social achievements and the economy in Eastern Europe, which is said to be at the same level, are not there at Weitem. Those experts you are referring to today are in the past. You shouldn't call on them!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5643	Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5665	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Klubobmann Strache, you should finally be so honest and say what you really want: If you apply for the withdrawal of Austria from the European Union, introduce the borders again, the Iron curtain, finally make this clear what you really stand for! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In order to address these global crises, these difficult situations need no less Europe, but more Europe and above all a better Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The liberals are to blame for the crisis!, that is obviously the Green motto!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Mr Kickl and Mr Graf.]] In Burgenland you place: Limits close! How else can you understand that? Well, you want us today to agree on very, very delicate and very difficult and complex issues, namely the Euro Rescue Package and the Greek Aid. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We now want to get involved in this discussion, which we have led very, very intensively in the club and in many circles, and I would like to stress how difficult it is to assess the future solutions. One thing is, however, necessary [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Hübner]] In any event, it must be recognised that these euro rescue packages were necessary to avoid a certain fire. However, the accompanying measures are absolutely necessary, and they are missing here today. This is one of the major deficits that we need to talk about today. It makes no sense to explain to the population again and again how vital certain things are. It is essential to help Greece, yes. It is essential to prevent even difficult surface fire situations. But it is also essential to finally fulfill the promises that have been constantly being made by the European Finance Ministers, the European Heads of State and Government for years, so to speak, but have not complied with them until today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are faced with the situation of evaluating pure causes here and not really, pure symptom control, vice versa – thank you very much – and not really being able to address the causes. [[Abg. Kickl: Wrong!]] In the meantime, the population has also had a major problem of confidence, and I would like to explain this once again on the basis of the discussion on hedge funds which has already been held. They can now be celebrated as heroes and are incredibly proud of this great regulation of hedge funds. Okay, then let's look behind the scenes! What are hedge funds? – hedge funds are very speculative investment forms, offer the chance of very high returns, but are also at very high risk. They move €1,500 billion worldwide, and the only thing that has now been regulated is the only thing that is new now is that fund managers have to register and that the business model is being disclosed. The very speculative business practices, these very risky ventures that the hedge funds operate, are in no way limited, that is all yet to be done. There comes the great problem of trust among the population when you say: Problem cut off! But the problem remains. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is the problem of trust that we too have in the meantime. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes, we have to do it once!]] Now I heard from the government bank – that was the colleague Fekter –: Yes, we have to do it once! - Yes, that's right! Only: How long do you want to go about it? For years now we have heard from all the speakers in Europe: The predatory capitalism must be tamed! In the meantime, the population is wondering: Who's ruling here? Who regulates who here? Why don't we move on here? How is it possible that a financial transaction tax in all European households – all European households are under immense pressure and urgently need new revenue – will not be introduced? How can it be that it's being dragged over years? How can it be – you say, you have been a lonely Mahner in the desert – that no serious initiatives have been taken here by Austria? President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). What to do You're a federal chancellor now? – I find this particularly remarkable: not a government initiative, but a citizens’ initiative. So we don't expect that from you. What are you actually about a profession, Mr. Bundeskanzler? – They are government representatives, they are head of state and government in Austria, and you should convince the other heads of state and government of Europe. [[Abg. Kickl: That's a...!]] They're to be convinced! – the people you need, I think, to stop convincing, you don't need to ask them either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think there's a one-bright picture there. [[Abg. Krainer: You already have to go into that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] So government initiatives – no citizens’ initiatives! We have, of course, recognised the need for these packages. However, there are two very big problems. I've already described the first big problem. There are no accompanying measures, and that is why policy as a whole has a major problem of trust. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Austrian politics, namely you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and Mr Vice-Chancellor as Minister of Finance, but above all the European Heads of State and Government have a huge problem of trust. Within a few hours a 750-billion-€ rescue screen has been organized again. Yeah, he was obviously necessary. But why is it not possible to send a single signal to the population at the same time? Name: Yes, we take it seriously, we are now starting with the regulation of financial markets, we are actually addressing the problem! - Nothing! So far, there's nothing again! It is a question of resistance, but, as I heard yesterday, it has only been agreed to support the financial transaction tax worldwide. - That's just not enough for us! That's too little for us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As far as Greece's aid is concerned, this is a very difficult matter. There are other ways of regulating this than those you have now presented to us. Why has it not been possible to bring the creditors, who have benefited greatly from this very difficult situation in particular the last few months, into the boat? Why not try months ago to restructure the debt? Greece cannot make it with this package. No state could create what Greece is now being born into. This package will not be enough – and you know it, Minister of Finance, you need to renegotiate. You have to get the creditors into the boat, otherwise this package will be beating. I wonder why you do not do this or why it is not possible to obtain a reasonable participation of creditors here and why it has not been negotiated at the same time this night with the 750-billion-€ package. These are all open questions, and all these are questions that we have not received yet an answer. They describe all of this as success. This is a very, very delicate and very difficult situation, and we simply demand more commitment and more work to deal with these problems. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We recognize that it was necessary, so you will at least receive two approvals from the Green Club. [[Abg. Booker: Two on two agenda items!]] But all of you can still convince us if you actually agree to a resolution today, in which accompanying measures are still binding. If it is not possible to introduce a European financial transaction tax within a manageable period, why do we not do it in Austria? Why do we not do it like Switzerland or the UK, which, by the way, have very high tax rates on financial transactions. That would be an exchange rate tax in Austria. The Minister of Finance, I think, has already rejected it, the Federal Chancellor has called for it. Now we can see how powerful you are, Mr Faymann, at least once in relation to your own opposition... to the own government partner, at least in Austria. [[Abg. Krainer: From your own opposition partner?]] That was a Freud’s promise. This is obviously the big problem: it is not even possible in Austria to introduce rules here. We also need other rules in Austria. We need a strong financial market surveillance. And we need not only powerful financial market surveillance instruments and strict rules for supervisory councils, strict money laundering regulations, but also a policy that is ready to carry out that, and which, as in many cases in the past, simply looks away and lets certain things happen, so that we still have hypo-scandals et cetera. So a problem of trust – this is the core of today’s debate! Prove that you mean it seriously, and finally make nails with heads! Say: Okay, it's not happening at the moment at the European level, then at least in Austria, then we're taking a step forward here and creating a certain dynamic! But finally take this seriously! If emergency packages are essential, then accompanying measures are only quite indispensable – otherwise you weaken Europe! You do not strengthen it, but you weaken it, and above all you weaken the confidence of the population in an extremely important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5938	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e5962	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pröll was so gracious today to inform us that at European level a “packager” was tied in the order of € 750 billion. Mr. Vice-Chancellor... [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That was a misinformation!]] Yes, if you already inform us, then inform us correctly, don't talk about €700 billion, but talk about the actual amount that was strapped, namely € 750 billion. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only 50 billion less!]] If you drop 50 billion € so easily under the table, ladies and gentlemen, then remember that the Austrian budget is almost as high. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Grosz]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] We have already lost a little the feeling and the sensitivity of what amounts are actually going on in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 750 billion €! Mr. “Fulfilment chancellor”, you are responsible for the debt that is now being incurred, and you are also the Minister of Finance of those debts. I would like to ask you to have a little more compassion on taxpayers, because they are in the final effect, which assumes the liability and guarantees. It is they who guarantee in the final effect their taxes that you can make such great promises in the European Union at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When Mr Cap turns out here and says: Let's think about Austria in the first place! I have to say: We, Mr Cap, are really thinking about Austria. But you think of the party, and the ÖVP is thinking of the banks. [[Abg. Dr. Cap shakes the head]] But we are thinking of the taxpayers, by taking over the lawyer's office for them and saying against the fact that at European level the billions are being thrown around as great as they would have done away with the money, ladies and gentlemen! [[OBJECTIVES]] This was the logical continuation of the bank rescue package. It already started in 2008. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] At that time, what was the saying of the SPÖ, who meant – also Cap again –: The control oases must be drained!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Now we have 2010. For two years the same leader, for two years the same speeches, only white words, no actions. Do not have anywhere at European level She has ever expressed her wish that the Austrian banks should withdraw from these tax havens and that these 2 billion euros of taxes will no longer escape us, but will flow to the budget. That would have been your duty as a responsible person, because you are in the government! That's what you need to remember every day, because if you stand there, you'll have opposition speeches. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But this bank rescue package was sold to us as a big business for the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen. Then the figure of €100 billion, which we decided at the time, was transferred to Greece's aid. Another €5.7 billion, decided by red and black today. Please speak of the real amounts, Mr Vice-Chancellor. Don't always say that it's €2.3 billion, but also say that the central bank has to make over €3.4 billion available! A total of €5.7 billion is the Greek aid from Austria. Speak of the truth, finally speak of the right amounts and don't lie to us again and again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this continues with this euro protection, which is to be strained and where another €15 billion is needed to save the euro. € 15 billion in additional guarantees and liabilities that the taxpayer will make available in Austria. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this is not only a expensive cycle that we are putting on the move here, but it is also a threatening cycle. Consider how many hundreds of billions of euros the individual Member States, the European Union, have pumped into this economic cycle to save the banks, how many hundreds of billions of dollars are in here! These hundreds of billions, ladies and gentlemen, will pay the taxpayers of Europe in the final effect. These hundreds of billions will lead to tax increases over the next few months. Even in autumn, when the country elections are over, red and black will decide on a tax package, in view of which we are dizzy, ladies and gentlemen. That is unreasonable and irresponsible! The Austrian taxpayer didn't deserve that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the meantime, the Austrian taxpayer asks: How can it be that hundreds of billions of euros can be made available overnight, but it has not been possible, since the outbreak of the financial and banking crisis in 2008, to finally regulate the banking market and to control the financial market at European level?- Oh, my God! For two years now, we have been talking about finally taking the hedge funds to the leash. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] – Nothing has happened to this day and nothing happens. Always only tax increases, always only taxes on taxpayers, are never asked to check out those who are responsible for this financial crisis, this economic crisis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are always very quick in this Federal Government and also in Brussels when it comes to providing the small, medium-sized enterprises with the following conditions: EU directives there, EU directives. There are regulations everywhere, an overwhelming bureaucracy for the small and medium-sized economy, so that it can no longer move at all. The banks and speculators can do and leave whatever they want. You are the ones who are now making the policy, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not the case! We must ensure that the right decisions are made at the right level and that the banks do not have the floor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this package of €15 billion, you will start a cycle that is no longer to be stopped! This leads to further indebtedness, not only in Austria but also in the entire euro area. Debt increases. We do not have the situation that tax revenue can compensate for economic growth to compensate for this huge debt. No, ladies and gentlemen, Europe and Austria will continue to be in debt. If we do not put up with reforms now, we will have a debt of 125 percent in ten years. That's new, that's fresh food for the speculators in the near future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] They will ensure that not only the euro, but the whole European Union is under pressure. The speculators will shoot this euro, ladies and gentlemen. We need courage at last, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. Really address the problems and solve them too! For example, if you are speaking today of the need for reforms in the field of pensions. The pensions are not safe. We have a privilege stage in pensions, which is no longer sustainable; it can no longer be financed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also at the State Secretary! Early pensioner!]] The entire health system, ladies and gentlemen, can no longer be financed. We build two hospitals in front of the gates of Vienna. This does not make sense in a fair and cost-effective way. That is why we say: Courage for reform is necessary before the scope of the future is narrowed in such a way that the next generations can no longer touch themselves at all! They will no longer have pensions and will no longer be able to afford such a great, expensive and good health system, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is white cock, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, when you turn on pump ads by €700 000 and predict to the taxpayer how much he owes when he comes to the world! [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Stop Please make this popular increase immediately, save the money and invest it in sensible measures, but not for your own consecration, because that's funny, that's mockery for the taxpayer! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What we need is a money-protection package for the euro and also for the Austrian taxpayer by finally making a speculation tax – but not in Austria, not nationally, but at European level, where it belongs, where it makes sense! We need a European Monetary Fund, which feeds on this speculation tax and ensures that the speculative attacks on the euro can be effectively countered. We need a European credit rating agency, not an American one that attacks us, but a European credit rating agency, and efficient financial market surveillance, which finally ensures that banks and speculators are properly supervised. And we need a sanctions mechanism. Toothless agreements will not achieve anything in the future! We need proper sanctions for the harms of the deficits, we need sanctions for the speculators, we need sanctions to ensure that those countries are finally asked to check out, the blame for this whole mess, for this crisis that has been triggered here, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We are not above the mountain, as you have just said in some interview, but now the crisis is starting right now; I am telling you that. We are going to have to get warm, because the tax burden is only going on right now. Therefore, there is no way past reforms – but leave your fingers on tax increases!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6221	Mrs Mag. Muttons now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6242	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Bucher, I am entirely of your opinion: Those responsible for the crisis are to be held accountable. This applies, for example, in Carinthia, where you and the current FPK are responsible for the serious crisis there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Painful!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The package of measures for the euro was a consistent and rapid response to the speculation attacks of financial markets – most of them agree here – and equally rapid and consistent joint action in the EU is also necessary in other areas. I would like to focus on three points which are being discussed quite hot. Point one: We urgently need strict regulation and control of financial markets. [[Abg. Grosz: I would also talk about the BAWAG and the “consumer”! On the economic competence of SPÖ! About the “Lucona”!]] - I know you can only scream out. But maybe you're quiet now. Would that be a possibility? - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: How to call into the forest, it should be back!]] The hedge fund regulation, which was decided yesterday in the EU, is a first step. But it is just a first step, we need a lot more, much more. For example, there is a need for a common European financial supervision, a financial transaction tax, a bank levy, a ban on speculative transactions with credit default insurance, the prohibition of non-sales and the like. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Turn to own chairman! Don't tell us, we've known for a long time!]] Here, the Austrian government must continue to act with emphasis at EU level, and the EU must also intervene in this area in a regulatory manner and take concrete decisions, quickly and without delay. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You've been talking about it for two years! That's "rapid"? For two years!]] Mr Stadler, there are successes. If you look at this, you'll see, there's already some initial steps. [[Call BZÖ and FPÖ:Where? Where?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Turn around and tell your chairman! You're at the speaker's desk now – tell me where the successes are!]] Second point: Europe faces a variety of challenges. The European Union not only has a debt problem, but – and this aspect is far too short in the last discussion – it also has a growth problem. It is therefore very important that the EU Member States take into account growth, employment and, above all, distribution justice, because our objective cannot be to strengthen social and European cohesion, but must be our objective, in fact, to strengthen this cohesion. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We must assume responsibility in the social field. [[Abg. Grosz: Also in the tax system! Even at the foundations!]] A recent study – perhaps you have read it – impressively shows that social and economic areas as a whole are all the stronger, the more the income distribution is. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah!]] Finally, less inequality leads to more wealth. The Nordic countries, such as Sweden, Finland or Denmark, which belong to Europe's richest regions, also have the smallest income shears. And by the way: They have the highest rates of female employment, most childcare facilities and the highest birth rates. [[Abg. Kickl: Oil they have!]] So I can only agree with English historian Tony Judt, who says that Europe wants to be sustainable, then we need a strong European middle class. Third point: We need more democracy and greater involvement of its citizens. The new revolutionary instrument of the democratic process, the European Citizens' Initiative, must be implemented quickly. We have already delivered and discussed an opinion on the Commission's proposal in the EU Subcommittee. There are still a lot of improvements, concrete improvements, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This means that we can also benefit from this instrument. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6453	The motion for a resolution which has just been properly tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6536	Next speaker: Deputies Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6557	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Many citizens in these days, of course, have a wealth of legitimate issues to be addressed to the people's representatives, to the governments, to journalists because they are ultimately about our money, and the euro is the only real symbol of the cohesion of the European Union. There are many legitimate questions, such as: Is the money safe? Will it be worth equal or less in the future? What does it mean for the first time today to fall below 1.22 compared to the US dollar? This is a difficult situation, and the opposition has, of course, raised some legitimate questions here. I'd like to try to get on with it, too. The first question, particularly raised by the FPÖ, was: Is it right now, in this situation, to help Greece? You say no, you say that this lifeguard, which is now being stretched up, is not useful. I'm trying to explain why he's useful. Of course this is controversial, but: In this situation, we give the Greeks the opportunity to implement a rehabilitation programme on their own initiative. They gain time with this, but the problems are not solved yet, completely clear. Only: What would be the alternative if we hadn't stretched this lifeguard? – Austria alone has over €40 billion in the countries concerned – Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy – and the EU as a whole has 15 2 000 billion. [[Abg. Kickl: What does the EU 15 mean?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation to risk a domino effect, that cannot be answerable! That is why it was right to act correctly and transparently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Not Austria, the banks have it inside! The banks are not Austria! Incredible!]] Second point: It is, of course, right that the problems are not solved; we have bought almost time; that is right. I therefore believe that the ECOFIN is doing well at this time to develop a reasonable solution – including for a realistic re-debt – in these two years for countries that may not be able to do so on their own initiative. Last Sunday, Professor Van der Bellen, Ursula Plassnik and others suggested this very interesting ORF discussion – and this is a real point. I mean, you have to keep working on this issue. The real problems are, of course, too high deficits, too high public debt and the lack of competitiveness of individual countries. And rightly the fear was expressed: Is the money now decided on also in Greece? – The answer: Of course, because with this money salaries are paid in Greece, social benefits and investments. If this rescue shield had not been stretched, there would have been a dramatic situation with incalculable social and economic consequences – and not only in Greece. That's why it was right to act together. The key point is: Do we agree enough in this situation, do we really speak with one voice – or are there still some kind of other Greek word – cacophony? I'll start with: At the same time, when Greek Prime Minister Giorgos Papandreou – difficult enough – fights at home to implement the third restructuring programme, a CEO of the largest German bank, so to speak from the secure chair, gives a comment on the following content. Well, the Greeks, there’ I’m very sure they’ll do it! Is such a comment helpful? – Of course, such a cacophony is not helpful. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Or the question of hedge funds, ladies and gentlemen: Yesterday – and everyone knew that – the finance ministers of the Eurozone and the European Union decided a reasonable arrangement, and then a head of government – he is now behind me – and says to the “standard” that the EU has not learned anything from the crisis. I can only say to that, friends: Who is "the EU"? Is that somewhere in the area of Waterloo and the surrounding area – or are we not all the European Union: parliamentarians, governments, public opinion, citizens? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not think it makes sense to try to give the impression that we have nothing to do with the European Union. Eva Glavischig is right: There is a need for government initiatives – and they are also thanks to God. Next: The search for scapegoats is of course as old as mankind. That's already in the Bible: One seeks a scapegoat, binds him around the sins of the world, and hunts him out into the desert, only: Neither the markets nor the banks nor Switzerland nor anyone else are the sole scapegoats. Since January 2010, €400 billion of loans have been received in the Eurozone – and another €600 billion will be needed by the end of the year. We therefore need the markets. But since this is the case, we must send out clear signals together. Meanwhile, EU finance ministers sit together every second day – right in such a situation! – and it must be possible to find a European solution to the ban on sales of empty, that not someone who does not own a government bond speculates with it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not understand why, in such a situation, Germany is making a single entrance. I am in favour of a clear European regulation in such a situation, but markets, traders in Singapore, traders on Wall Street or Abu Dhabi or elsewhere in the world shake their heads if Europe does not act in such a situation. The same applies to Switzerland. I say quite frankly, Switzerland is subject to the OECD context as well as Austria; it fights just like we are tax sinners and tax evasioners. [[Abg. Kickl: Cap, watch out!]] In the last 18 months, Switzerland has bought EUR 60 billion for Swiss francs, which means that it has a book loss of 5 billion Swiss francs – that is not very little – two thirds, as Klubobmann Kopf has already said, hold its currency reserves in euro. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Switzerland course for Cap!]] That's a remarkable signal. This is, in any case, more remarkable than what the British do, which as an EU member do not even participate in the euro saving screen. The non-EU member of Switzerland cannot be obliged to do more than the EU members themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: In this situation, we should draw the right conclusions, make clear European rules. And again: The best recipe against speculators is to use safe and healthy state finances and the euro as a protective shield.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6710	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6731	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Schüssel said two things that aren't right. First of all, he claimed that the money we now pay to Greece is used to pay pensions and salaries. Rather, thanks to the ORF yesterday, it is true that Greece needs this money because the first credit tranches have to be paid. Secondly, It's not right that we don't want to help Greece. Greece must be helped, but we want another way. The Financial Times also proposes a different way in this context, saying: Exit from the euro area, depreciation of its own currency and repayment of debt. The debt release is the essential point. But that's where banks have to be asked for cash – and that's exactly what you don't want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, I just don't believe you anymore because you have said the untruth too often. Austria's accession to the European Union – and first promise: The schilling remains! The schilling has remained natural or unfortunately not. Your second promise: Austria cannot be overshadowed! – Austria can now be overrun. Your third promise: 1,000 schillings more in cash! So, now we pay more than 1 000 euros instead of having 1 000 schilling more in cash. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you have all too often said the untruth – and now you also break primary law by doing what is decided today by guaranteeing this duty of assistance from our Austrian side. This is a clear breach of the primary right. I wonder what you will do in the future when it comes to implementing the European Union or the European Commission? One of the main reasons why we – which has not yet been mentioned – have these problems is: Banks have just grown too big. In reality, the banks in Europe and also in Austria have a huge influence on national governments and also on the European Union. The banks are too big! We must not forget the following if we pay a lot of money to Greece in these days, namely what is happening in Greece itself. Even if Greece had no debt and no interest to pay, there would still be a state deficit. And why? – There are a variety of privileges in Greece, for example: An official can go before 50. Go to retirement for a lifetime and get almost 100 percent of his last salary paid. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: That's ridiculous!]] What's funny, Mrs. Colleague? – Read the Financial Times, and then you may see what's going on! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: That has not been true for a long time, because the calculation was also introduced by the officials!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of bodies in Greece in which you can earn well. Maybe you know. You the lake Kopais? There is an administrative body for which some rulers have been used – and they deserve very well there, only: The lake Kopais has been dried out for 70 years! We pay a lot of money in a country that does something like this – for example, it has a budget of arms of 6 percent of GDP. Dr. Fichtenbauer would be pleased if our federal army budget were to account for 2% of GDP. 6 per cent of GDP as a military budget in Greece! Therefore: There is a need for an economic expertise, because the economy does not follow the Sunday speeches of politicians, does not follow the wishes of politics. Of course, Greece's exit from the euro zone would be a political defeat – but it would not be a national disaster, ladies and gentlemen. It wouldn't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to stress the following, because today the SPÖ has highlighted the hedge funds in this way: The BAWAG was bought by a hedge fund, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. And you have to answer that! All you have to do is answer it on your own! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Or, because you always reflect on speculators and on the so-called empires: It is the SPÖ in Styria, which has done its own Stiftung privileges and is trying to save taxes there, and which is still bringing the entire foundation assets into a GesmbH – tax-saving of course! So you are the last, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ to criticize the rich and privileged, because the super speculators are also in your ranks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to stress the following, because today the Federal Government says: We must reform Europe, we must do this and that! – Yes, you will not even be able to carry out an administrative reform in Austria! How do you want to reform Europe, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government?- Oh, my God! I would like to take a closer look at that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because we have been confronted so often with the untruth, for example at EU accession or before the election, with the demand that there will be no new taxes, we no longer believe you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. You are not a Trouble Shooter, but you are the cause of the problem!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6869	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e6890	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Although this is a debate on the statements made by Chancellors and vice-chanckers, I should like to make a brief comment from my previous speaker, Mr Hofer, and I must say that he is one of the very few in the Liberal Group who manages to make material contributions, but today he has once again taken a step by step, namely when he put the BAWAG into play. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] That's where I've got to tell you: Regardless of the ownership of the current BAWAG, we already have to find that no tax schilling has flown into the BAWAG rescue. We've even earned the liability money. In Carinthia, for example, exactly the opposite will happen. As far as the hypo is concerned, where we have already spent a billion and a half... – Yes, you have merged with them! [[Abg. Kickl: Red black!]] You're the culprit! - Yes, yes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Red-Black has decided to arrest the 20-billion in Carinthia!]] And the country of Carinthia has assumed liabilities that go far beyond the conditions there. That is to say, all Austrians are responsible. [[Abg. Street: By the red and black state government, the 20 billion have been decided!]] This has your blue-orange troupe to answer – and nobody else! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that comes out when you're left to drive alone. You always have to tell everyone in time. [[New condolences with the greens.]] Because you've come here again, Mr. Klubobmann Strache: I gave you a small bill last time, and I asked you where the average per capita debt levels are higher: in Greece or in Carinthia? Did you think about it? I do, and I can tell you: You're higher in Carinthia, so now you're finally shutting up! If you don't understand so much about this thing, just leave it away! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: That would suit you so much to forbid my mouth, you mandatory defender of this federal government! They are the ones who make the wall up there. You're making this federal government the wall for your failure! That's the point!]] Do your nationalist actions elsewhere – not here, where things are so important! However, I can now turn to the statements of Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors. I agree – and I believe that from the contributions of our group it has been quite perceptible – that we have not only leased the truth and ate the wisdom with the spoon. I accept that you, Mr Finanzminister, when you travel to Brussels on these famous nights, where more or less finished rescue packages are on the table, are not easy to change, enforce something else, and so on and so on. And if it is true that these are major crises, then, of course, there is also a need for large rescue operations – and then, stop! Whether it's always the same as you want it either yourself or how you might know it better afterwards and have to listen to it from others inside here is another thing. I agree. But what is it about? – If major crises trigger major rescue actions, which the so-called little ones have always had to pay, we must not wander around this fact; then the first dissent – but then it is clear – at least from my point of view – that there is a need for great counter-strategies and major reforms. And that's why we're asking the question at this point: How should we proceed with the European Economic Area? Then we need something like special willpower of those who act there in a political position, and possibly courage, because we have to get out of the old pride to finally fight back what we are all day and today again imagining each other: the reconquest of the power of politics over the so-called markets. I don't like it so much because I don't have so much against them, at least against the actors who are not acting there. But why do they act unregulated? - Because we're doing too little. That's the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Either we can do this now, or it will finally – and now I come to the real point – the loss of credibility of politics to the point where nothing moves at all. And the credibility is, I believe, a very important concept in this context, because it is not only the markets and the actors there, because it is quite clear that this is essential in the credit sector, in the financial sector. But if the question is this way for everyone: If society is now able to control these phenomena in such a way that at the end of the day there is something going on and that the majority of the population in Europe do not feel overwhelmed by certain processes are helpless?, then the problem has finally ended up there and then we have the problem of bringing Europe to this course – wherever it is supposed to be, because it is different because opinions are also different – the idea of a European economic area to continue. It is therefore so important that, when these packages are adopted, these credibility tests will also pass. And that's where our doubts begin! Let's play it through! What do we have on the agenda now? If you've listened to the previous speakers, it wasn't even clear to you what it was all about. The two points are Greece's aid and the Euro package. First: Greece aid. – You know our scepticism in this regard. It does not mean that Greece does not have to be helped – but, of course, needs to be helped, because otherwise there is even greater damage – but the question is: How there? And above all, the question arises: How are the costs of this delivery distributed, who pays at the end? That's important, too, because there are completely different outputs of this game. And now for Greece's aid on site – you don't have to be any wiser than anyone else –: Our forecast is that this package will never generate so much economic growth that Greece will be able to repay it on its own, which has already been transferred to loans from the current Greek aid package. – That’s the first problem! The second problem is: Who will pay it? – If we do not include the creditors, including the private, i.e. financial institutions, by the way, private banks, then this will only have to pay more of the taxpayers, although others, including private ones, have previously earned it. And against it we turn! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But at the moment there is no attempt to distribute responsibility and burden delivery through re-indebtedness or similar transactions. It is already quite clear that the European taxpayers will come to the handcushion. But if it is not at all recognizable that something else will be done, then you will lose this credibility – even if it is not immediately taken advantage of the time that has been gained at the second point, namely in the protection of the euro – and I think it is necessary and useful; this part will also be accepted by our group – because if the diagnosis is correct, that speculative waves of attack are running, then something has to be done quickly. This is at least a temporary help, what has now happened, that is indisputably undisputed, but the question is only: What are you doing, what are the European governments doing with this time profit? Mr Bundeskanzler, we would expect you to have something different than a popular desire. You're in government responsibility! It's been the so-called spin all day in Austria yesterday: Now we have also convinced the Germans and brought them into the boat! Yesterday, indeed, was the “Hero Day ” among both parties. You've already felt surrounded by heroes. Only to pass such a credibility test: In the evening, when you switched on the German television stations, you could hear – and you can read it today – that German Chancellor Merkel said: Yes, the financial transaction tax should come now, but only when the US is there! [[Abg. May. Rudas: That's not true!]] Yeah, you know what that means? – That means that we are at the point where we were not two years ago, but six years ago. So there you really feel “rolled. ” And you're selling it as a heroic act?- Oh, my God! We would wish ourselves heroic acts, but real! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, we are also concerned about testing the credibility of measures in our own country. And if we do not impose this transaction tax globally and not Europe-wide, whose benefits have now been discussed so many times, we want to know from the Greens, at least in Austria, until this institution is anchored at European level. We therefore propose that Greens: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's actually your program! We invite you to agree. Mr Bundeskanzler, once again this is about credibility. It's never too late to reverse. The Bible has already been quoted in front of the speaker's bowl. So here with the good initiatives, here with your consent, so that at last a little further goes on! Our hand remains stretched out! You don't have to worry about it, we're going to be the constructive opposition. But with large chattering letters and letters to small formats, the problem will not be solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7088	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7142	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7164	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a certain portion of superiority here from the speeches of the members of the government, for example, if the Minister of Finance did not inform you of anything wrong in Parliament and dropped all 50 billion so to speak, according to the motto: In fact, it's 750 – don't do anything! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] It is “only” 50 billion € – an unimaginable sum! It'll just fall under the table. A second example: The Federal Chancellor said a few days ago that perhaps more water would be needed, and he meant the hard-working tax money of the people who worked. That's what he put in with water. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you just can't do that! The only thing that this waste water has in common with the taxpayers' money is the fact that in the earth of Greece it will send away like waste water. This may be the only common thing, but it doesn't matter. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you place “Time for Justice” everywhere today, I really wonder how your view of justice is when I look at what your social-democratic party members and senior officials do when they bear responsibility. What about Mrs. Ederer, one of your leading officials, who is now paying €2.5 million per year to Siemens for bringing hundreds of workers to the air? Is this the new “time for justice” of social democracy, Mr. Bundeskanzler? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: What is the new “time for justice” when one of its superiors, namely Ruttenstorfer, enters hundreds of millions of profits in the OMV, namely, a total of 4 billion profits in the last four years, and taxpayers, in this case, are allowed to bleach the drivers, the higher spray prices and the mineral oil tax. [[Abg. Grosz: Voves!]] Is this “time for Justice”, Mr. Federal Chancellor? - I think no. You should take care of it, there you are asked! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Voves with his foundation!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance and Federal Chancellor, now it is said that you want to help. The idea of aid is now in the foreground. Greece want to help you, and if it is possible, perhaps Spain and Portugal too. [[Abg. Head: ourselves!]] We help the euro to get through so that it doesn't die. Europe is being helped. Banks help you. I ask the question here, Mr Finanzminister: Who will help Austrian taxpayers before the attack in the form of tax increases you are planning for autumn? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We!]] Who is helping here before attacking the pockets of Austrian taxpayers? No one will believe you, Minister of Finance, if you drive to Brussels for a short while during the weekend and there in a few hours link a 750 billion package with your colleagues, but in Austria you want to inform the citizens that you need until mid-October until you get a budget! – That’s the real scandal! No one will take this away from you, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Hands on the table! Budget on the table! Clear checkout! – That is what we are calling for, Mr Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. They are invited to tell people the truth: Budget rehabilitation 60 to 40; 3, 4, 5, 6 billion € in tax increases. You will have to explain to people how you first said for months, there were no tax increases, and then you said: Well, budget recovery 60 to 40, we already need 4, 5, 6 billion of you on the revenue side. But although we don't have any money, you come now and say: For Greece, we shake €2.3 billion out of the sleeve! This is not a problem for you, because that is only tax money, hard-worked money from the Austrians. But what we are experiencing here in Austria, you forget: a million people in poverty, 400,000 unemployed, income losses for people. We now have workers who have only worked for the Fiscus for half a year and who have not yet earned a single cent. That's exactly the people you're asking for now! And at the same time, they send €2.3 billion for a system of corruption, withdrawal and tax evasion to Greece. – That is what we criticize, Minister of Finance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's not what it's all about. And I tell you very clearly: You really have to think about who you are! You are not the Finance Minister of Greece, you are not the Finance Minister of Europe, nor are you the Finance Minister of the World, nor are you the Finance Minister of Disneyland, but you are the Finance Minister of Austria and are concerned about the Austrian concerns. We ask you to do so, Minister of Finance. But what should we think of you if you fail to achieve this if you are not even able to provide safety. As far as the aid for Greece is concerned, it was said first that we should contribute 600 million, then it was 800 million, a few days later it was 1.2 billion, then it was 2 billion, and today you pay €2.3 billion at once. There you can only say: Who offers more? Could it be a little more? You know, Minister of Finance, not even how the overall situation in Greece looks – nobody knows – because Eurostat will only present in a few weeks what it really looks like. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] – No, I don’t know, but you’re even less! - That's why you don't have a base at all. This is really a barrel without soil, as our clubman has been drumming for weeks or saying that quite rightly. People are wondering where you are taking this money, and I am therefore telling you, Minister of Finance: It's not going to be okay! At present, the ÖVP is doing a “free swimming exercise” anyway. So no one really knows what's going on with you. I have to admit to the Chancellor that he is at least half reasonable: He's coordinating, he's breaking you. You have to say that honestly. But you do not know what the left and the right do for you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What's that about the bank tax? In the Committee, does one colleague agree with the other and speaks of another law? What is that with the transaction tax: once yes, once no? There's no one else to know! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The truth is: You're completely logged out. You've been caught on the wrong foot. And it is also bad for the country that your party president and finance minister has no idea of how you think about it. This is actually a strategic dilemma. You should consider how you can change this. Finally, Mr Finanzminister and Mr Bundeskanzler, on citizens' desires and the involvement of the population: That's what we're for. Wonderful! I'm just wondering, Federal Chancellor: Where was the involvement or survey of the population when it came to sending money to Greece to decide on this aid package? There was an error. You should ask people! Or: Where is a citizen's desire for the drastic taxation of managers' bonuses and salaries that stuff their pockets? That's where we need a citizen's desire! Now there should be a citizens' desire for the financial transaction tax, against which no one is anymore. That's more than transparent. It is remarkable, Mr Bundeskanzler, that the SPÖ and the ÖVP Group are today presenting a motion for a resolution – with the Greens, I see here – to which we will gladly agree only: [[The application shall be submitted to the Commission in ……]] Josef Cap has already been pulled over the table by the ÖVP, because in this request the transaction tax and the corresponding citizen's desire you want from the SPÖ is not a word, Mr Bundeskanzler. Once again you pulled the ÖVP over the table. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] You should get away from the SPÖ. You have resigned once again. It's sad you're always getting over the table so fast. Stay there and say: We are in favour of people being involved! And do not let you go after a day after your party leader has announced this! People have a right to put the truth on the table for them, and they have not deserved to face them daily with tarns and deceivings of this government. Mr Finanzminister, tell us in the next few days how you want to obtain tax revenue – and not only after the elections in Styria and Vienna! Then: There you will be looked through, and then you will experience your miracle!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7340	Mr Matznetter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7362	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I have to apologize to the spectators – it is a good opportunity, according to my previous speaker Westenthaler – once for this kind of politics. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, he came into politics with the so-called Buberl Party, in which he was also a certain Meischberger. If you, Mr Westenthaler, complain here about the form of how people make money, then you should remember such friends: €8.7 million black is inserted via Cyprus, Delaware and Liechtenstein. - That was the group! There you should be more excited than about our skilled managers! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Austrian managers are now increasingly in demand worldwide, where the speculators are in demand of less and more sustainable economies. I congratulate all of our managers, especially Brigitte Ederer, who has moved into the Executive Board in a world group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now, on the real issue that we are discussing here. Clarification number one: What's been defended? – Not just Greece’s ability to pay. It is also our national currency which has rightly been defended by a determined step taken by the European Union against a major attack by speculators on global financial markets. What is the euro? – The euro is the savings, including more than €150 billion of our citizens. That's what we defended! The euro is our currency, there is no drachma, no schilling and no more D-mark. The euro has been our currency for over ten years, and we cannot allow this currency to be pressured, otherwise we will all have a problem at the end of the day if the payment capacity of individual Member States is no longer given. That's why your rejection is wrong. [[towards FPÖ]] But that doesn't surprise me at all, because where is the FPÖ of the H.-C. Is there any point here? When are you yelling at no? One of the last templates: Money laundering template. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Who says no, when it comes to persecuting drug money, terrorists, black money here, to actively fighting money laundering, to imposing a reporting obligation on banks, where necessary, to be threatened with court sentences if it fails? - The FPÖ! It's interconnected. Who said no when, in connection with banking secrecy, it was about providing information about foreign taxpayers on request? - The FPÖ. [[Abg. Blow: Absolute nonsense that you're gnawing! Because you're the bank secret...!]] The FPÖ is only the party of foreign black money owners, tax evaders, drug defenders and bank secret defenders for terrorist money. Now it really is enough with your patrons! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Absolutely absurd!]] There's no coincidence that you're coming with Switzerland. [[Abg. Strache: You're just more embarrassing! That's just more embarrassing what you're doing for the best!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, yours No embarrassing, Mr. Klubobmann. Then you'll vote with Yes tomorrow, then it's less embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Every citizen has to get his head on what you do best! That's absurd!]] You do not have to complain, you are right to vote for the country and for the rule of law and not for tax evasion! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Christoph, you're right, they're screaming like this!]] Back to the financial transaction tax, back to the serious part of the subject. Will the €750 billion be enough to have a defense in the future? – I think that came in the speech of Dr. Schüssel a little, namely, the rationality of the markets. I remember the Asian crisis, then one country after another got into trouble. After that, Japan was on it. But the Japanese have done the right thing: They have stopped this attack, and they have achieved it – that was in 1998 – although the debt is already 150 percent of GDP, that the wolf packs with the empty CDS are not around Japan, but around Greece and the euro. If we show this strength, there will be neither an attack against Austria, as it happened in 2009 because of the alleged East exposure, nor an attack on other EU countries. We did the right thing back then, we stood up, opposed ourselves and turned the speculators into the barriers – and we must continue to do so. It is our currency, it is our economic area, it is our Europe. In this sense a thanks to the Federal Chancellor and to the Vice Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7511	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7534	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you follow the debate, you have to say that it is quite an exciting and interesting debate over long distances, but with some contributions you get the impression that some people are not really aware of the situation. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] [[Abg. Street: Mr. Finanzminister, for example!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] . And that is what the group mentioned above speaks about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have always assumed that the FPÖ is a quite patriotic party. You can stand to do what you want, but you could gain this impression over long distances. I have actually assumed for a very long time that the FPÖ is a party that is a major concern for the home country. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] Anyway, she tends to place it again and again. But I ask you, Mr Strache, from the FPÖ: What do you want? Are you actually expressing the image of Austria with the image of the "Titanic"? [[Abg. Strache: I compared the picture when Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Federal Chancellor were acting! They lead Austria against the iceberg!]] Are you actually aware that the 'Titanic' has gone down, Mr. Strache? Is this the picture you want to draw from Austria? Is it not rather a matter of taking the row around in good time so that it doesn't come to an impact with the iceberg, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is our Minister of Finance, it is to thank Josef Pröll for the fact that, at the critical Sunday session, he and the European Finance Ministers, together with the European Finance Ministers, worked on the shield that stabilized the euro, which has stabilised Europe, ensuring that savings and the euro of Austrians are safe. That is why, Mr Strache, it is not about cheap populism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But it didn't succeed!]] It is very interesting – I have followed your debates very closely –: You said you're already because we're doing something about it. You are also in favour of helping the Greeks; you have also said that. And then you have made a proposal as to how to do this: not as our Minister of Finance has fought to say we do not take money in the same way... Yes, Mr. Strache, it was the Austrian Minister of Finance, who, in association with a few finance ministers, has enforced that we assume liability, but do not send Euros on the journey. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Is it “has battled”?]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And that's right and that's good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why is that good...?]] Your proposal, Mr Strache, is another one. Your proposal at this time is a debt release. What does that mean? - Let's play it through! [[Abg. Vilimsky: That the banks pay!]] I know what that means, but I also want to explain it to you because you seem to be not quite aware of the consequence if it means that the debts are now issued. [[Abg. Street: The banks pay once and not the citizens!]] Yes, Austrian banks have around €4 billion in Greece. They are represented in those countries which are currently under observation with a commitment of about 40 billion. [[Abg. Vilimsky: The banks!]] Yes, yes, the banks, Mr. Vilimsky. [[Abg. Street: French banks, for example, with 50 billion!]] Mr Vilimsky, you have also criticized it when we made about €15 billion available to the banks in Austria as a capital strengthening and prospect. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Without control!]] The Austrian banks did not take everything into account. But what would it mean for Austria and stability in our country if Austrian banks lost €40 billion with a blow? Faith Do you really think that this would have no effect on the Austrians and on our federal budget? That's naïve! Don't spread sand to the people! This is about creating stability for Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] You should really think about where you want to go. Do you want to go back to Schilling? – I tell you, the Austrians do not want to. The Austrians want a stable euro and not a return to the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this reason, it is also necessary to keep the budgets in order per futuro, not to live over one's own conditions. [[Abg. May. Stefan: For example in Austria! What about us when we make 13 billion minus? Is that above the ratios?]] This is not about individuals, Dr. Cap, but about the state budget. We can't spend more than we take. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you make 13 billion new debts? They are still unable to save on expenditure!]] No state in Europe can do that. We must also make this clear to those countries that have lived massively over their conditions. In this context, Mr Strache, we need more Europe and no less Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7793	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7814	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For the keyword ‘Titanic’: With his appearance, Mr Amon has provided impressive proof of the indifference, the self-glority, the superiority, I say, of the ÖVP, which is actually comparable to that which ruled on the command bridge of the "Titanic" until shortly before the disaster. We know how the story turned out. We want to prevent the collision before it's too late, and we don't have to talk about it afterwards, just as you prefer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we propose the reverse way, we want to have a different access to things, because we believe that the truth in all these things is a little more than the approach – that is what you can get through to the maximum. The truth is unpleasant, but I think you can already pronounce it. The truth is that the Euro's experiment – which shows all these developments around Greece and the so-called shield – has failed, ladies and gentlemen! The experiment, 16 and 27 different countries with completely different economic performance combined in a currency system – not because it is economically meaningful or economically necessary, which has also worked quite well – has gone into the pants. This is the truth you need to take note of! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They stooped the horse from behind, contrary to all warnings. They have put the euro at the beginning of an unforeseen development, rather than making the euro reasonably the end of a possibly successful development. That was the Cardinal's mistake, but we warned you years ago. And in the case of all the things that are now at European level, continue to do so in the same way. I only remember the really irresponsible removal of the protection provisions for the labour market by 1. May next year. Once again, you are driving Europe in the wrong direction and will then stand here and link up any crisis packages in order to make use of what you have put us in the wrong direction at the expense of taxpayers. I can already prophesy that to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you were honest, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you really had leadership, if you were crisis managers and not just European statistics, which is really the case – statistics in Brussels, something else, you are not confused with their PR travels with any successful crisis fire brigade – you would have expressed this admission of failure here today. That would have been necessary, because only on this basis will you continue to make sense. This admission is the only way, now that it is about our prosperity, because it is about social peace, because it is about what the older generation has done to save, because it is about the young generation wanting to secure its future, as it is about saving what is to be saved, to draw the right consequences; otherwise, nothing will be done about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, what you are actually doing under the lie of a Greek rescue, under the equally lying title of a euro protection shield, is a financial and economic amoclust across all European institutions for weeks and months. This amok run is also a legal amok run. I don't understand – every Austrian understands that if you want to operate a car, you need a driver's license as proof of legitimacy for doing so. But if you drive around the area under the motto “Once around the world and the bags full of tax money” and heat up €17 billion to €22 billion, depending on how you calculate it, in good German, you can still expect credit in your own country for supposed to have saved anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I tell you, this is nothing but a big joke that the population will have to extinguish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They're pulverizing €22 billion, of which not a single cent will arrive at the small people in Greece. Know That You're as good as I am. Mr Cap is looking at the side anyway, because the last remains of conscience are beginning to push him. That's the point: Who's cashing the money? – The same banks and the same speculators are charged by covering the risks that have made their fat profits precisely with these risks, the fat premiums, the fat bonus payments and all that we do not want to pay. That's the cycle you keep up with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would like to address you as the SPÖ Chairman: Don't ever talk about it again,that [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I am not chairman of the SPÖ!]] They argue against the fact that profits are privatized and losses are transferred to taxpayers! It could be for you to say that the tongue is stuck in the neck. Because what? It is precisely this principle that you are doing now that you are putting it into reality and continuing to drive this machinery forward. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'm not SPÖ chief!]] Don't talk like that anymore! . I mean Mr Faymann, but there is no difference in you anyway. Please direct it to him. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't ever talk so swollen that you want to fight the markets and put any neoliberal principles on the chain, because what you're doing here is neoliberalism pure and nothing else at all. That's the truth. You from SPÖ and ÖVP were there when you made a casino out of the stock market. [[Call:You too]] You were there! You were also at the casino when it came to playing and playing without limits, and you are now involved when it comes to covering once again those who have incubated this soup, namely the banks and the speculators. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: It's out!]] A final word on Greece: A failed man, Socrates was his name, said: I know I don't know anything. – With you, I suspect, you don't even know that. You have to say that when you see how you act in this phase.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7957	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e7978	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! So much excitement, Mr. Kickl. I mean, it's been exciting times, but something else bothers me: Mr Pröll, the Minister of Finance, if it is easy to do so, does not allow you to quote such statements by Mrs Merkel, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. You used the quote: Death of the euro, death of Europe! - It's from Merkel. First of all, I have experienced the pre-Euro times and have not died. I would also experience the random post-Euro times. I didn't die. But apart from that: Federal Chancellor Merkel – I mean, we are doing all we can – has lost our reputation in the last four months, at a breathtaking pace, both internally political and, above all, in Europe. This is due to four months of holding Europe, taking into account the elections in North Rhine-Westphalia. Then you get the bill presented in two ways. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is also the case in Austria, who fear the elections too!]] One loses the reputation at the European political level and one loses the elections in North Rhine-Westphalia. She could have lost them, but at least with flying flags. She wouldn't have lost her honor, and she did. So I can't do anything with that. Mr Finanzminister, on the package, which is now implicitly debated, I am pleased that it has interrupted hysteria in the markets. The spreads have fallen, the rates of the bonds have increased. That means the interest rates have fallen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The euro continues to fall!]] The premiums for CDS have, as I suppose, gone down, if anyone else guarantees a credit at all. These are all good signs. But as it happens in the economy: One solves a problem, and others open up. You have to say that, too. They have opened up a new moral hazard problem, so to speak, first kindness. Loans of all kinds, starting from banks to pension funds, now believe to know that a state cannot go bankrupt. That will be a mistake, but at the moment it is that in which you weigh yourself safely. This will eliminate the discipline of the capital market. It can't stay that way in the long run. There is nothing bad about the fact that countries with lower credit quality have to pay slightly higher interest rates than countries with good credit quality, such as the Federal Republic of Germany or Austria. This is something quite normal and a good signal for investors. After what do the others believe? – Aha, the risk premium is slightly higher. That's normal. And turn this signal off now. Greece's gonna have a breathing break, that's all. This gives the rest of Europe a breathing break, that's all. I don't make any sense that I was of the opinion – January, February, until March – that a default of Greece would have been the better alternative, for the simple reason that the creditors of Greece would have come in automatically, regardless of who it is, whether banks, pension funds, other funds, foundations, no matter who, regardless of nationality. [[demostratetive appeal to the FPÖ]] Members of the non-euro area, i.e. all banks and other financial institutions that do not belong to the euro area, would have come in this way, provided they are creditors. Okay, it wouldn't have been without risk either, you have to say that. I am really shocked at how little – and that is, I believe, the most important reason not to have approved this default – we know about the actual creditor structure in Greece, Portugal, Spain and so on. Only in the last few weeks has it turned out to me – I depend on the Financial Times and so on – that the banks in Greece and in the other countries represent 50, up to 60 percent of the creditors. The rest are pension funds, foundations, other funds and so on. For example, you might want to know: Which pension fund? This cannot be indifferent to us in Austria either. What nationality? Who insured them? Who paid for it? Apart from the fact that until today – and I say once, all other 182 Members do not know that – I do not know how this CDS market is structured, the credit default swaps. Who are the insured, and who are the insurers? If Mr Ackermann has now said – rightly, I think, in the matter with right – that he has great doubts that Greece does not have to be sent to the default – including my opinion – then as a learned cynic, you ask yourself: Why does Ackermann, the head of the Deutsche Bank, tell the public? I think there are two reasons: Either Deutsche Bank, compared to others, is much less committed in Greece – then it can only be right for him if the others come in – or Deutsche Bank is insured with CDS – then it may not matter whether Greece pays or not. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Then the price value increases!]] Maybe someone else has a third alternative. - Well, that's where we've won time. There will be restructuring, debt reduction, fixed-term settlement, smoothing of the eradication structures. It'll all be there within a year. What worries me more is that we are pressing ahead with two questions: First of all, the budget question. Consolidation, yes, of course. Interests must not run out of the row. But where are the growth impulses in Austria, Germany and elsewhere? [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the “Süddeutsche” was a beautiful article: “Peace to the huts! War on the Palaces!" In fact, the huts today are the kindergartens, the schools, the universities. And where the palaces stand, you only need to look at them with an open look when you go through the capitals of Europe and America. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, the political issues are completely open, ladies and gentlemen. Why does the dollar seem to be more secure today than the euro? Economically, this is totally inappropriate. The eurozone has a current account surplus that the USA has not been in for years. The US is China, the Eurozone is not. The Chinese could send the dollar to the basement from one minute to the other. You're not gonna do it. They've got thousands of billions of dollars in their wallets. From an economic point of view, everything speaks for the euro. And as one commentator once wrote: As a safe haven for investors, the dollar is as safe a port as Pearl Harbour about 1940 before the attack of the Japanese. But what distinguishes the dollar from the euro at the political level? – We do not have an economic government at European level. We don't have a directly elected president like Barack Obama. We have a kind of Senate, if you like, in the form of the European Council. And who is that? – These are the national princes, the national prime ministers and chancellors who are elected at national level for what they do or usually do not do at European level. This is an essential structural error, and we must address this question without any shambles. And I hope, at least I hope, that what is now to be decided is that these packages for Greece and the southern European countries as a whole are the first steps on the way to where we need to come at the European level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8080	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8101	Mr Van der Bellen, your list was incomplete, because one of the reasons why the dollar is so overvalued is that the Americans not only have a directly elected president – that is the lower part of it – but with insolent militaryly enforce their economic interests all over the world. That is the main reason, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not want to do so. Only so that we complete the list and also mention the main reason. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Chancellor! – Unfortunately, he is not here now, but his “old ego” is sitting there, Mr State Secretary. [[Call for the call.]] After the State Secretary, whom he always has with him, who is practically already sitting in his pocket, Mr Ostermayer. I believed I didn't hear right when Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said: Yes, no one has believed that all countries in this euro area have the same economic, i.e. economic stability and prerequisites. We under Jörg Haider listed it at the time with the Euro-popular desire and said what a dizziness it is. [[The speaker shows a brochure.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: But there is “FPÖ” on it!]] That doesn't matter. I don't know what makes you feel that way. Dizzy remains dizzy, whether Jörg Haider was sailing under FPÖ at the time or not, it was a dizziness. [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I want your humor, the spectator doesn't have it. Let me tell you again: That was the twilight that your people denied, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That was the swindle that Mr. Oberbanker Vranckky denied, which his successor, Viktor Klima, denied! Today they are all in well-deserved positions or retirements and direct the Austrian population to what it has to pay. [[Abg. Strache: The experts are today!]] And who was the then Foreign Minister who still hated the politicians and the representatives of the stable currencies, not just us? The then Foreign Minister – I still remember – and Vice President Wolfgang Schüssel, who is not here now, then directed the Federal Bank President Hans Zeitmeyer to be a real Sau. So far was the debate at the time at a breakfast round on the verge of a ministerial meeting in Amsterdam, because they did not participate in the Super-Euro, when introducing stability criteria that others had not shown at all. That's where he said a real sauce, and the Swedish is a mess. That is how the debate took place at the time, ladies and gentlemen. That was the background of your Euro success story! You're responsible! He comes out today, makes a speech and acts as if he had always known it – apart from the fact that the speech was just right now. But he should have kept it to him two years ago, his own party chairman, two years ago, at the first financial crisis, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now, at once, everyone knows what was necessary. For two years now, we have been discussing what to correct in the financial markets. Mr Cap, who was against the regulatory measures when the first debate on regulation came? – The Social Democratic Comrade Brown from Great Britain! Randomly? – 80 percent of the funds we are now talking about are managed in the UK, in a country that has not only been governed by social democracy, but also is not in the euro area. So that means: Those who are not in the euro zone... – You have also constantly made the Swiss an enemy image. [[Call for the call.]] Let us talk about the British, about the previously socio-democratic British who are not in the euro area, but who have so far done the big business with the countries at the expense of the euro. That's it! Don't hold a small-cared anti-Switzerland speech: The evil Swiss money bag, which, as it were, fits everything! No, the big managers who have finished everything are sitting in London and have their companies on the Cayman Islands and Bermudas, also under British, i.e., Anglo-Saxon influence. So it is not the evil Swiss and oaths who kill the euro, so to speak, with the Rütli oath. No, it's your comrades who have blocked all of this. You've been talking about it for two years. And you know, people are slowly tired that for two years they are talking about everything that is necessary. Every small regulatory measure, as our Clubobmann Bucher has said, at the expense of a company is immediately carried out, but for two years you know what you have to do – Mr. Schüssel comes out today and says quite well what you have to do – but for two years you haven't done it. Mr. Finanzminister Pröll, are you so juicy? – That was a criticism of your party friend bowl. have been for two years They have not done all that Mr Schüssel has now spoken about. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] A call from your own party president. Don't put your hands together! You should finally act instead of folding hands, ladies and gentlemen, that would have done a lot of good! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They're tough when it comes to introducing all this. Now you're pretending to have been successful at the hedge funds. For the first time, the British say, yes, hedge fund managers must register, hedge funds must register here, they must present their risk. That's all? You want to tie them in the future? There the hedge funds managers laugh all the way to Bermuda, ladies and gentlemen! They can comfort their Bermuda shorts, because they have nothing to fear from finance ministers like you, Minister of Finance Pröll, because that's nothing that scares these people. Fear only does what we have asked for, and for two years we have been really discussing it. And for two years nothing has happened because a country can afford it. And now you have the Lisbon Treaty and you do not. You said: Yes, the Lisbon Treaty, then we can finally make majority decisions. Why don't you do it? For half a year, you've had a Lisbon Treaty, you could do it all. Why don't you do it? – Because you lack the political will! It is much easier to get the taxpayer into the bag than to get politically against the British or against the fishing axes in America. This is much more complicated and politically more risky. That is why I say to you: This is a pitiful political failure to blame you, and the taxpayer pays the bill for it, and it will not have been the last time. Tell the people the truth! If you say, over the mountain, the chickens laugh! Everyone knows that this is only the beginning, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, he disputed it during his speech, he said he never said that. Of course he said it! [[Abg. Bucher: Of course, black on white!]] Yes, we have this black on white, but at the ÖVP you must always have the documents as ready if you keep something on your mind. The Austrian population knows that you are not telling her the truth. You say that you act, talk about the right actions, but don't say what they are, then come with a hedge fund package and pretend as if you had stabilized the euro now. That is why I am now bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, which includes five points: First: The introduction of a Europe-wide speculation tax. And it has to be – I say so immediately – dedicated to it. The introduction of a tax is too little, but it must be targeted in a corresponding stabilisation fund, in a EURO-stabilisation fund. - Second point. Third point: Introducing a European credit rating agency. – This would once again be a defence against the Anglo-Saxon An-Der-Nase, which the Anglo-Saxon-Saxon credit rating agencies have so far delivered to you. You are not even able to defend yourself effectively because you do not create your own agency, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Fourth point: the introduction of a pan-European financial market surveillance system. - You've been talking about that all the time. Since I've been sitting in there, you've been talking about it. You haven't done that to this day. Fifth point: creation of clear sanctions mechanisms in the event of violations of the Stability Pact. Klubobmann Kopf has admitted for the first time today that Austria too has dim, yes, under Minister of Finance Grasser. But, of course, you quoted the “press ” today, because that is exactly what is being presented. Therefore, it will be necessary to deal with all infringementrs of the stability criteria accordingly. There, too, you're juicy. Therefore: Finally, instead of making permanent declarations that do not benefit!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8248	The application submitted is distributed and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8380	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. 4 minutes of your group's remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8401	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We are in the most severe economic crisis since the 1920s and 1930s. But the opposition in this house is nothing but hysterical screaming and revealing childish transparency. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe as a whole is trying to draw lessons from the crisis. Europe as a whole has tried to secure jobs, to preserve Europe as a social and affluent continent. But here in the Austrian Parliament, probably due to the television transmission via Titanic, is philosophized. Mr Klubobmann Strache seems to have forgotten who was the real cause of the fall of the Titanic. This was the Eisberg, which the Titanic was facing, just as the FPÖ and the BZÖ were in the way of the development of Europe and the interests of Austrian workers. [[Abg. Strache: Was it not the captain who drove too fast?]] You, Mr Strache, are the iceberg, which prevents it from going on positively. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now about limiting the damage caused by the financial crisis. But it is also about giving a clear signal to the population: The iceberg melts there! – Mr Strache leaves the meeting room. – It is also a matter of setting out a sign that what has happened because of the speculation and financial crisis cannot happen again, namely that those who have built up and led to the collapse of this House of Cards are now those who once again benefit from the crisis. In addition to what is on the agenda today in the House, namely Greece's aid and the protection of the euro, it is also a matter of moving forward with the regulation of financial markets. Also to colleagues, who today, in his speech, is somewhat behind the position of his own Minister of Finance, a message: We must note that the dogma “More private, less state” has failed. It has failed financially and it has also failed socially. Now it is about drawing lessons and the positive consequences from this crisis, together with the Social Democrats and also the Conservative Forces, in this Europe. [[Abg. Amon: Communism has failed!]] He has also failed, colleague Amon. Communism failed at the latest in 1989, but the conservative dogma “More private, less state” has failed in the end with the financial and economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The top-privatizers were the first to go to the Minister of Finance and ask for state support. That's fact. Now it is about drawing positive lessons from it together. The current Greece aid and the euro protection sign are also a sign for us, European Social Democracy, to signal people's prospects for the future. It's not about the banks, it's not about the stock exchange locations, it's not about the funds. It is about restoring confidence in their own future, in their own opportunities for development, in a social and fair Europe where jobs can be successfully and competitive. It is also about the European idea in these days. The EU must now prove that European ideology is not only propagated on holiday holidays but also practiced in times of crisis. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Austrians Appreciate Your commitment to dealing with the crisis as well as your commitment to the regulation of international financial markets. With today's debate, the Austrian Parliament is behind this position for a social and just Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8463	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8485	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. The FPÖ is hypocritical on this question. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have already seen this in the Financial Committee. If the Austrians were so important to you, you would also tell the Austrians very clearly and clearly what the euro, our common currency, is all about. We, too, have spent a lot more in the crisis than we have taken, because of course we have also tried to save jobs, what – the Federal Chancellor has said today – brings us the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. If, as a result of this speculation, the euro had not been saved against Greece, exports would have been much more broken down than they had already broken into the crisis. There are jobs on that, and that is not to be denied. And although my speaking time is very short, I would like to stress here once again: In the Financial Committee or in the Budget Committee, experts from the opposition parties have stressed that we should take time to consolidate the budget, wait and invest so that we can link up other packages. So I say we have to save, and now, that's absolutely necessary. We can't take more time, because otherwise it'll really be like the Titanic if we don't do anything and the debt levels just go up. [[Abg. Kickl: Where is it saved?]] And one more thing about the FPÖ, the stabilisation of the euro, and what is related to it: The FPÖ has submitted an application to the Financial Committee, which allows private loans to continue, which, in its view, is so important for the SME. I'll tell you: The foreign currency credits are now lower, as the price of the euro is higher, for example the rate of Swiss franc, a disaster for the private – not only for those who are inside, but also for new ones. I mean the following: Take an example of the Federal Government, which is right in the crisis and also designed the aid for Greece in such a way that the Austrians can benefit from it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8527	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8549	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Not from the liberal propaganda spring, not from the polemics you submit to us, but from the evaluations of two German magazines, how to view the euro at the moment, how to view this rescue package. [[The speaker shows newspaper excerpts.]] On the front page of the “Economics Week” a partezette is to be seen: ‘The euro. Kohl has given it, Merkel has taken it.” – Your new alliance partner, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[The speaker keeps the above magazine up to date.]] “We say goodbye to a stable currency, firmly anchored in a sound and responsible financial policy.” – A partezite. The second assessment provides “Der Spiegel” – also well known –: ‘Euroland, burned down’. – This is the glorious currency that you defend here with a rescue shield, which will still be very powerful to all of us. What bothers me so madly in the whole debate is that, above all, the evaluation comes from the ÖVP side over and over again: There was no alternative, we couldn't do anything else! That was the only way! – Now I allow myself to stop him: There is always an alternative, there are always other reviews, always other reviews. Only: In that case, you will raise the euro, your kind of Union policy, into a sort of issue of faith in which everyone who somehow trusts to question that only in the approach ends up on the heretic bank. It can't be. There are probably alternatives to the package described. The best alternative would be to do what is quite common internationally, which is also common in bankruptcy proceedings here in the country, namely to make a kind of creditor conference and to gather these creditors at a table, to make them understandable: Friends, you've speculated! It can't be that you've received 1 percent of your money from the European Central Bank, 10 percent of your money, and now, where the risk is going to hit, you're suddenly demanding the taxpayer's guarantee. - Why don't the banks take responsibility? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You went to the financial casino, ladies and gentlemen. That would be the usual way. Banks across Europe enjoy their billions of profits. You bought the scrap loans in Greece with the greed after 10 percent, which you could enjoy, because they took this money by 1 percent from the ECB – that's what you have to imagine: 9 percent profit for nothing! And with your lifeguard, you secure the banks in your high-risk business. That's in in a way that the Freedom Party certainly cannot give its consent to this procedure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are always alternatives. The alternative to turning the euro into a ‘moving currency’ would have been to let Greece out of the euro area, for example. There's not the Apocalypse that happens. They now conjure, but in the international comment is the long-term issue and is being openly discussed. As an example, I refer to the German daily “Die Welt”, a quality sheet, which comes to the following knowledge in a comment on the question “Drachma or Euro?” in the case that Greece would return to the Drachme – and I would like to inform you of this in an expressive way so that you do not put it to us: “At first, it would lose significantly in value to the euro;” – so far, so well – “low prices for Greek sheep cheeses and nights of stay” in tourism “will make the economy more competitive and bring more money into the cash market. Here too, however, the side effects would be significant: Banks and insurance companies would have to change about all contracts.... And external assistance would also be needed here. But this is not to be done” – that is, to release the Greeks into the drachma – “means only: The problems are getting even bigger and the rescue is getting even more expensive at the end. Economists can expect that. Only that politicians like to dismiss these bills as a brainspin." This is precisely the problem of pursuing an alternative in the interests of Austrian taxpayers, and not only in the interests of the banks – “your” bank bosses are in various ÖVP personal committees! – to act, but to represent the Austrian taxpayers accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8637	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8658	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are different views in such a situation. That's not surprising. But if there's something like a basic consensus, then it's probably in it – I've got the impression –: It can't go on like it has been before! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Exactly!]] There's one opinion. But we must ask ourselves: What does that mean? . I would just like to draw up two points on which I want to make a concrete statement, which means: "not as much as before". First point: It must end the policy of the eye winking and the letter of the reader on the question of European integration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only a strong Europe will bring a strong euro and will support Austria accordingly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Stefan: Where is it?]] It must be clear, for example, that a hedge fund rule is only possible at European level. It must be clear that a financial transaction tax is only possible at European level, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Make it!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who's doing it?]] Mr Kogler – he is unfortunately not here – to find an alternative in Austria with the stock exchange tax, is in fact damaging the Austrian economy and does not bring us any further in Europe. Why? – Because all the stock exchange would be avoided, everything would only be operated more than extraordinary trade and the true regulation mechanisms would no longer be effective on the stock exchange at all. [[Abg. Is that what Mr Leitl is saying?]] That is why the answer can only be: more Europe! One thing has to be clear, Federal Chancellor: If you say here that I am saying that you are in favour of more budgetary control and sanctions mechanisms in Europe, for example: Yeah, that's right! But then you must consistently also say: What we demand from others, Austria will also have to be ready to do for itself! There is no Europe à la carte, there is no Europe of Cherry Picking, but only a Europe of conviction – and one that makes us strong, ladies and gentlemen! The second point, where it may not go that way – and this applies to everyone; I am not taking advantage of myself and I am not taking this into account: We can no longer afford to win the eye on debt policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Once someone has said that a few billion debts are better than a few thousand unemployed, then we have seen clearly where this has led: We've gotten debt and unemployment. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But the least debt...!]] Mr Weninger, you are now saying that European Social Democracy will call for more state. [[Abg. Street: The banks are calling for more state aid!]] What did that mean, “more State ”? – “More State” has always said: more debt! Now we know where the real problems are: The problems lie in the debt of the States. The crucial question is: How do we get rid of this? How do we reduce public debt? Those countries that are able to, with much strength and with much courage, actually reduce expenditure on the side of the debt, will be the countries that will be the strongest in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] This has been shown internationally by all examples. And now it's up to you – and I'm expecting that! – that expenditure should be rehabilitated on the other side of the agenda. Then Austria will really be strengthened.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8828	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8849	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! What particularly touched me in today's debate and was particularly cynical was the statement by Klubobmann Cap, who went out and told the critics of the procedure: Enjoy yourself today! Have a nice day today! – The question arises who is looking forward to today and who can actually look into the future. The banks that have been taken the risk can be delighted by the speculators who have earned well over the past few years, who now have nothing to do with the reorganisation, who have been afraid of their money, who have earned a lot of money and who do not have to be held liable, and those responsible at EU level who are actually accountable for the debt they have to remain guilty of. They're happy, colleague Cap! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it's a sad day for all Austrian taxpayers today, it's for all Austrians who don't have a job, it's for the young people, it's for all those people in Austria who now have to extinguish the soup that the banks, the speculators, but also this federal government. And that's why it's cynical when you come to the speaker's desk and say we should be happy today. [[Abg. Silhavy: It's cynical when a Carinthian says that!]] - Just calm down! But it is also a sad day, because the liberals are getting right after many years and this federal government is catching up with the past. Sometimes it's painful when you get right. I have chosen the 1996 Stenographical Protocol. There has been a strong debate in the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – Mrs Colleagues, you and the representatives of your group have done nothing but lie to the Austrians for decades and bring them to light! And now the Austrians have to remove the soup you have incubated! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the first time, you have lied to the Austrians about joining the European Union! That has already been said today. Your party president came here and said: The schilling remains, I promise you! – After a few years, it's called: Well, with the accession to the European Union, we have actually abolished schilling! – The Austrians have looked through their fingers. Then it said: The euro will remain a hard, stable currency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] – That's how it looks, Mrs. Colleague! Look at what has become of this euro! But there is nothing to see from a hard, stable currency, Mrs Colleague. Read in the Stenographical Protocol what your Member, Nowotny, who is apparently sitting in the National Bank and for whom it is also a beautiful day today, who, together with Klubobmann Cap, is pleased that, in reality, his personal liability will not be due, in a debate he held with Mr Haider, then said! “I assure you that the position of the Federal Government, which is fully supported by social democracy, is as follows: “This will be a stable euro!” And: “We will get it under the appropriate conditions. The European Monetary Union will bring both price stability and employment policy impetus.” Ask the Greeks where the employment impulses are! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, right!]] Ask the Austrians who are now on the street where the employment impulses are! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has not been the task. I've already said: Sometimes it's a bit painful if you get right in retrospect and years later. We said at the time – social democracy has prevented this –: There can only be a monetary union if the budgets in the respective countries are honestly in line with the Maastricht criteria. At that time – and that was really the core mistake! – has been tricked across Europe. This has been the case in France, where the French Télécom then gave 80 billion francs to the budget, so that France meets the Maastricht criteria at all. The same thing happened in Austria at that time. You know that the Austrian Post loaned the Minister of Finance to Schilling 5 billion at the time, so that the budget balance is made and we fulfil the Maastricht criteria. You can't blame the little one for what the big ones have done. Greece has learned and looked at this and thought: Look, if core Europe is dim in the Maastricht criteria, then we can do that for a long time. Now this fraud is becoming apparent. Greece has interfered with false figures in this euro area and has been misinformed for years on the economic situation. And there was no sanctions. The relevant finance ministers have been aware of this situation, and if they have not known it, then someone has done wrong, then he is actually wrong in place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even now it turns out that the deficit of 2009 is not 12 percent, but rather 14 percent, and who knows whether it is actually true. According to Bank of International Payment compensation of €302 billion Greek foreign debt €43 billion on German banks – 14 percent – but Germany is expected to take over 28 percent of the compensation. Austria is also disproportionately involved. I ask you again: Of those who have actually earned well, those who are actually with the creditor countries that we, the Austrian taxpayers, are now financing, the USA has not yet been spoken of and of how many Greek bonds are actually in American banks, or in Switzerland, but also in Great Britain. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Ah, Switzerland!]] In fact, they are not supposed to contribute to this. But Austria is involved in the rescue package. Who are we saving? – The banks, the shipowners, the great earners. And Austria has to pay for it. Those who have previously collected the increased interest rates and put them at risk cannot now, of course, demand the socialization of their losses. This is our position on this matter. It should also have been a lesson from the first crisis of the banking crisis, and this has been promised by the European Union that the relationship of liability and responsibility must not be broken down. Those who have earned in business must also bear the risks and be liable for the resulting losses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you actually support with your policy is that the deserve, the denial, the speculative economy in fact has no consequences. What benefits the rich, which benefits the banks, are the profits they can put in, but when it comes to losses, the taxpayer has to bear and then it has to carry the general public. Be so honest, Minister of Finance, and say what this shield for the Greeks will actually cost the banks! They are still embarrassingly touched by what will be a load package in the coming months, even after the elections, on the part-tactic grounds for the Austrians. Your listing regarding per capita debt, which you made a few weeks ago, you can tear, attach a zero and finally give the Austrians pure wine.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e8959	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, Neugebauer, Dr Van der Bellen, colleagues, on the rapid implementation of the European Citizens' Initiative. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 96.) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the reintroduction of the VAT on exchange sales. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr De Keersmaeker, on a package of money protection that is urgently needed. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[11:58:41]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (687, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Act on Participation in International Balance of Payments Stabilisation (ZaBiStaG) (736 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Interbank Strengthening Act (737 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9047	We come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting shall not take place. The first speaker was Mr. Themessl. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! High house! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, what you decide here today is nothing but a capitulation of policies before the financial economy! It's sad it had to come that far. All the speakers who have spoken of serious debates today must also note that a serious debate can only take place if one speaks of alternatives. That was not mentioned at all. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, I saw you last night in ZIB 2. You have said quite clearly that there is no alternative, and thank God the European Union – the EU Commission – and of course also the national governments of this rescue package have decided to stabilise the euro and not to further exploit the economic crisis and financial crisis. We have seen how a serious debate can be conducted today. Almost all the speakers of the government parties today have become so involved in contradictions that I have really made the effort to show them here. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said in your statement of entry that the economic policy of the euro area could not be more different than it is. I'll give you all the right. But, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you only know that since today? – It was already known before the introduction of the euro was made that this could probably not go well. If there are so different economic policy objectives in the euro area, then this cannot be done well in the long term unless one manages to bring the economic policy objectives closer together. That's not the case. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] If you now believe that this rescue package of €750 billion will dramatically change economic policy – especially in the southern countries of the euro area – then you will probably also be on the wood road. I have to tell you quite honestly. Mr Pröll, you said there was no alternative and it was the right decision because the experts saw it that way. I don't know who these experts are. I'll tell you one thing: The experts I know – these are the governors of the National Bank, Mr Aigerer and Mr Felder – these three gentlemen have had to review or revise their opinions so often in the last one and a half years – since the beginning of this financial and economic crisis – that I have to say that the House could not have met so often in order to stop this number. Only so much about the credibility of these experts and the ongoing revision of the statements they made. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, there are a lot of experts who are quite different and, of course, assume that there is an alternative. What I am most critical of you is that you have been talking for two years about something to be done that there must be uniform financing arrangements for the financial market Europe if it is not possible worldwide. You didn't do anything. They're going to sit down today and say, Hurra, we have slowed down the managers of hedge funds, we have made them rules that were so good that they immediately accepted them without If and But and only with silent Murren. You know, it seems to me like this: If I would like to criticise the economic policies of the EIA and put economic policy measures here in this House and then get applause from the ÖVP's economic allies, I know I'm wrong. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] If the managers of hedge funds are already congratulating on the measures you have put in place to get these speculators under control, and if you do not accept this without Murren, then you do not have to be so credulous, even to think that you have created a Hurra scream from the hedge fund managers, because They have taken so very bad action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9181	Next speaker: Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9202	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From the agenda, today's Parliament's day could be a really big day. We decide to protect the euro. [[Abg. Strache: Great day for Austria!]] The euro is not an abstract form. He is our money, our wages and salaries, our pensions, our savings deposits – everything in euro. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The taxpayer is liable!]] And in the next item on the agenda, we will adopt the Federal Financial Framework Act, the debt brake for the next four years. [[Deputies Mag. Stefan and Strache:Debt brake!]] So: As protection for the euro, as debt brakes for the next four years – that would be a really big day. Why it is not a big day, we say quite openly, dear friends of the opposition – I deliberately say friends because I highly value many of you as members of the Financial Committee. I am really disappointed today by the behaviour of the opposition. No question at all, in every country in the world, the opposition is generally different from the government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God!]] But these are not ordinary points today, routine points. Today it is about something that affects people in our country incredibly. [[Call at BZÖ:In concrete terms, people's wallets touch that, the bank accounts!]] In the last few days, I have been on many business visits and openings. Every day I got four or five times the question of how our money will continue. Is our money still safe? So today we decide on things that directly affect the existential interests of our citizens, the concern for their money. The euro is our money. I would have expected a close of all the parties in this house. I have to say honestly, I am disappointed that the shoulder closure is not taking place today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] It would have been a nice signal to the citizens. [[Abg. Strache: In the event of misconceptions, there can be no shoulder closure!]] Mr Strache, I believe there is no political change on these issues. I was surprised myself: When I was at a TV discussion a few days ago, the moderator said that according to a survey, 81 percent of the Austrians are for this rescue package. I said this for the common sense of Mr and Mrs Österreicher. So don't try to change political change here. People are much more reasonable than some believe in opposition. We don't care about the Greeks. We're just doing this in our own interest. We do this in the interests of Austria, our money. It's our money. It has already been mentioned by our clubman: 7 billion € Austrian investment only in Greece. We are not talking about Portugal and Spain at all. In a pleite of Greece, we would have lost €5 billion with a hit. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There speaks a great European!]] We have now found a very intelligent solution, thanks to our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance. That's not a question at all, it's understandable. It was in all the newspapers. [[Abg. That's why you'd rather lose 21 billion instead of 5 billion!]] The majority of the euro area countries wanted to start with bilateral loans, which would have increased our budget deficit and increased government debt. [[Call at the BZÖ: Maybe you want to go and have a glass nap!]] A protective sign of liability has been decided, and no more euros are required for liability. We simply shift €15 billion from the liability framework for banks for this EU protective shield – an incredibly intelligent solution without needing a euro liability. [[Abg. Strache: The difference is only that the liability can be beaten!]] And yet you do not agree, Mr. Cot. Mr Strache, I am afraid you will calculate yourself here, but that is not my problem, but yours. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is like Monopoly, there are 15 billion postponed!]] I am very glad that responsibility for our country and for the euro lies in the hands of this government, under Chancellor Faymann and Minister of Finance and Vice Chancellor Sepp Pröll. There it is in good hands. It is clear to me that the opposition will play the upper hand all over the world, always practice criticism, be against everything, but on such existential issues that go under the skin to the citizens, it would have been beautiful if we had reached an shoulder closure. I'm sorry it doesn't come to this shoulder closure. Nevertheless: Thanks to the Federal Chancellor, thank you for your commitment, thanks also to the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you have anything to say on content?]] What you have done in recent days may not be recognized by the opposition, but I believe it will be recognized by the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9452	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9473	Mr President. To this call to the shoulder closure I would like to come separately then only as much was sent in advance: You would wish for more representatives with backbone if you came to a close with them, otherwise you will quickly fall over with them. There's a little to watch out for. Mr Bundeskanzler, colleagues from the SPÖ! They drive to Burgenland, make a clause – elections are also – and declare that we need a European financial transaction tax. And if this is not the case, we will have to reintroduce the exchange rate tax in Austria very quickly. It's not all wrong – I'm going to redesign it. And on the first opportunity you've been invited to sit in this case – you haven't fallen by, you sit down. I don't even know the argument with which you reject it now. It will not be that easy that you – Mr. Federal Chancellor – are now above all addressed to you – here advertising campaigns organize from women's churches to Berlin – and that was then – and then European citizens' initiatives are announced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Let's get back to that. Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not know whether you have already been transferred to the extra-parliamentary opposition with this matter. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Just so much: There is, of course, also the possibility for political parties to launch these initiatives. That's not a question. The point is how you use your energies. It would be more useful if you were to use it on a very active government policy. Now we turn to them and look at them once – and thus also the contributions of my colleague silently from before. They suggest a differentiated attitude. We have clearly announced a differentiated attitude. First of all, we are in favour of the funding for this euro area rescue package coming from the bank's liabilities. If it is supposed to be, then it is reasonable to go back there with the liability framework because it is not generally increased by it. Secondly, as announced, we are in favour of this euro area rescue package, and thirdly, we have good reasons why we are sceptical about helping Greece. I will not repeat it now, just because my colleague is stupidly not willing to listen. That's all in the record. Finally, we are talking about something quite different, namely the question of credibility mentioned above. If it is not possible to give the impression here – and even more from the European governments – that the ways out of the crisis will be taken in such a way that once the victims will be protected – and not let the perpetrators run – if you fail to admit that you have the issue of action back in hand – but those against which you pretend to fight – all this will collapse in itself. That's why it's preferable for us to put a sign, even once, by saying: We're not around, just because my colleague is stupid – or you – calling at the shoulder closure. With all the appreciation we have previously expressed: So it can't be that the opposition is always there for the testimony of what the government is doing, regardless of what it is doing. And you're doing too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9548	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9570	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What are we doing today? We don't give anyone money, and it doesn't send anything into the earth, but we're sponsoring Greece money – real cash – because the country could no longer borrow the money on the financial markets at reasonable conditions. Interests should be paid upward from 15 percent. We hide the money by 5 percent, borrow it ourselves at a lower interest rate, and we assume that this money can also be repaid. [[Call at BZÖ: Mr Ackermann...!]] Yes, Mr Ackermann – it has already been mentioned why Mr Ackermann says that. [[Abg. Bucher: He is by chance the largest banker in the EU!]] There's a third variant. He only has CDS and no government bonds at all. He thus benefits even more if he speaks badly to Greece. So, Mr. Bucher, you should consider who benefits from what he says. It will generally be useful to him himself, otherwise he would not say it publicly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we provide to Greece is a breathing break – a little longer breathing break of one and a half years – with the time of course need to be used to see what this savings package means for the economy in Greece. Given these measures, is Greece able to serve the debt it has to face and come out of the crisis by itself? If that is not the case, then we will certainly have to think about restructuring measures, assuming that those European states that are now helping with direct loans have a senior status when it comes to restructuring, because the conditions on which we produce the money are better than those that the financial market has offered. At least I'd assume a senior status. The second thing we do is a liability – that's something like a guarantee, we don't spend any money at all. [[Call at BZÖ:We or the taxpayer, who guarantees?]] That is, we guarantee that other countries in Europe should be under pressure. – This could also happen in Austria. Austria also came under pressure when there were these rumors, Eastern Europe is so bad. With us the spreads went up immediately. The real economy has shown that they have gone down again, but before speculation we are not true either. [[Abg. Bucher: Whether Greece can ever repay this is also a speculation!]] But if other countries come under speculative pressure, then we'll guarantee almost for loans that get them, and not directly with cash. Mr Kogler also acknowledged that the overall volume of liability of the federal government is not increased because the volume of liability to banks is reduced by just €15 billion. That is why I fully agree. I also consider it very important and I am pleased that the Greens agree to at least most of the package, because it is on and on itself a package that you can only agree responsibly, except you only get in polemics, as unfortunately is the case with BZÖ and FPÖ, and is not limited to content. A discussion that we have held over and over again in the last few days is that many say now is the reason that everyone has lived on their relations. That's when I look at who lived over his conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Was that the nurse? Was that the minimum pensioner? Was that the electrician? – They never lived over their conditions. It is true that there are parts of our society that have lived over their conditions. This is especially the financial market, on which much too high profits are made, much too high salaries are paid and some of it is not even paid tax. There are also people who have been here in Parliament – one is called Meischberger, I believe – who, for some 30, 40, 50 years of work, earn in a few weeks under very windy circumstances and do not even pay taxes for it. Yes, there are parts of society that have lived over their conditions, but that certainly was not the broad mass, that is certainly not the social state. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] The debt we have today is because we saved the banks. Because of the economic crisis, we now have state financing problems, not because we have lived over our conditions. This is a completely false view of the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9680	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9702	Mr President. Dear members of the government! High house! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Slowly I believed that today, on 19th. May, in the wrong house in the wrong movie. You will leave here today – on a day when €15 billion, the unimaginable sum of €15 billion, will be sent to Brussels for a euro-saving package, for a speculation sum, on a day where €2.3 billion, the unimaginable sum of €2.3 billion, will be sent to the debt tower of Greece, to finance the corruption there, to finance the road struggles there, to finance the bank package in which Austrian banks are involved – and today you are going out and talking about a big day for Austria! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Great day!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:In liability will not be...!]] Maybe you should have turned out immediately and filed a request that the 19th. May in the future will be the new Austrian National Day. That is the day on which the Minister of Finance, your party colleague, abolished Austrian tax money for time indefinite and finally. I congratulate you, Mr President, on your broad economic vision. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion, which we have summarised here under Agenda items 1, 2 and 3, is the expression of the perversion of our financial and economic markets. What are we discussing? – We are no longer discussing the fact that in Austria, the economy and income of the working person – the service provider, the product – are determined by the workers and employers, both equally, in Austria, the financial and commercial sectors. No, we discuss it and find a guilt that our economy, our banking world and politics are now being led by the virus of the speculators – those greedy people who invade half of Europe. This is the sad realization of today's day: No longer the employees, the employer, the small and medium-sized enterprises, support or determine Austria's financial location. [[Call at BZÖ: Don't get any more loans!]] – No, it is the banks with their hands, namely this federal government, at the head of a finance minister like Josef Pröll. If you, Mr Federal Minister, talk about it in a “trend” interview, social benefits and even public services for security, for the social sector, for small and medium-sized enterprises – I do not know how to limit this – speed up the corruption of people, then I would like to remind you that once in humility you should shed light on your own corruption, and also on your group’s. Because you are the Biedermen and arsons who today stand on this pult on this subject and sit on this government bench. – Your group, your Mr Ikrath, your Mr Maier, your contacts with the banks, the speculators who sit in your ranks, the members and top officials of your party who deserve to be put at risk in Austria are disappearing tax money: A financial and tax policy is being made in this country, which has a lasting impact on our country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They take, on the one hand, the taxpayers' money, deliver it to Greece for a bank package 2 and to support the Austrian banks' participations in order to link a tax increase of more than €4 billion in that country at the latest after the Styrian and after the Viennaer Landtagswahl. [[Abg. Kickl: Fingers away from 13. and 14. Fingers away!]] Mr Federal Minister, lying is still the mildest expression of this. In doing so, you are permanently damaging people's confidence in politics, because every Steirer – the federal from which I come – now believes that politicians are only lying more. If we continue to allow this in this House 15 billion € tax money due to your participation in the debt tower Greece and Europe, in this “European Kings Club”, are being shrouded in this casino in Brussels, but on the other hand, you do not give people pure wine in this country, whether you are planning tax increases, then confirm what the vernacular in Austria says: The politicians really lie to everyone. And I do not want to be in favour of your group and not your policy if you make banking and speculation policy a disadvantage to Austria. [[Abg. Head: Calculate you, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9827	Mr Grosz, I give you a call for order for the accusation of lying. [[Abg. Grosz: Wrong! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. [[Abg. Grosz:...! To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It is presidially stated that there are no calls of order...!]] Who would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure? [[Call the BZÖ:Who? To whom?]] [[Abg. Grosz: He doesn't know, does he? – What is it now?]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9920	Mr President. I said in my speech that the expression “loyalty” – and I used it in the quote – would be a minor expression. That is to say, I did not use it at first, and second, Mr President, has been agreed in the Presidency that today's calls for order cannot be issued in the television era. [[Abg. Head: Well, well, well, well!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9955	Mr President, one can also be a term that we do not use here in reverse. That's why he doesn't become more harmless. Secondly, As a member of the Bureau, I say to you that we have agreed that actual corrections are not called in the television era. Order calls are not affected. I'll keep the order call straight. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor Minister of Finance Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e9991	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing a very important issue since early, since the two reports by Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors on Europe, and I must say quite honestly: Now, of course, I have also been at the centre of the need for solutions in Brussels, for days and weeks in the past, and I ask myself: Does anyone in this House believe that 16 Eurozone Finance Ministers, 27 Finance Ministers in ECOFIN from Jux and Tollery, link rescue packages to a dimension that has never been seen in Europe, because it is so funny – or because it is absolutely necessary? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With tax money!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Because you are not willing to think in alternatives!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all the government and oppositional emotions, I would also ask you to clarify once: What does that mean if such rescue measures need to be put on the rails? What's behind that? And if the experts are quoted and questioned today, ladies and gentlemen, then you know that even your experts in hearing here in Parliament have said in terms of implementation for Greece, but above all in terms of the euro rescue package, it has threatened something comparable in the dimension – such as Trichet, ECB, Novotny, National Bank – with the thirty years, but at least the most serious crisis after 1945. [[Abg. Kickl: Russian roulette!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now we're panicking again!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Intimidating people first and then taking away the money!]] I ask you completely emotionless, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Is it responsible to respond to these experts from the National Bank, the European Central Bank, to those who give us this perspective of total chaos – or is it responsible to do nothing? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a shame! First panic and then...!]] [[Abg. Strache: You shouldn't have followed them before! ...! That's the basic problem!]] And I say to you, that is the difference that it is to be seen in very decisive ways for Europe and for Austria. As an Austrian Finance Minister, it is my central task to fight in Brussels to achieve the best possible solution for Austria as well. Unlike you, many, including international, media have noticed that the main challenge for the rescue shield was whether we are going into bilateral loans – immediately debt-effective for Austria and for the others – or into a liability system. This has long separated us from a solution in Europe. It was my responsibility to fight for Austria, to get through with liabilities and not to give debt-increasing direct loans. – The second responsibility to be fulfilled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell me: from tax money! – Be honest, Minister of Finance!]] The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is also one that I would like to say here – and I have already said this today: Yes, we will, of course, also make greater involvement of Parliament in such ongoing negotiations – I have also asked the Federal Chancellor to do so – to allow Parliament to be involved. Mr Scheibner said this in the President-in-Office's office. I think that's a good idea. But believe me: Of course, I can only take decisions in Brussels as far as I have the reservation of national decision-making. But do you really want to demand that an Austrian finance minister in charge of Austria in Brussels stop such a move and let Europe and Austria go to the wall because there is no parliamentary decision? That's where I have to act and decide! That's what I'm calling myself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I immediately informed Parliament, and we will have the decision-making today. In this sense I simply invite you, in a very extraordinary time, in a very threatening time also for the people who feel the need to do the necessary. [[Abg. Bucher: The crisis is over: “We are over the mountain”!]] And the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, is not the much-conjured crisis of the financial sector, the banks or individual states, but the crisis has arrived at the doorstep of each and every one! [[Abg. Strache: But you have managed the crisis now! You have handled the crisis with the rescue package!]] It's about the regulated movement of money. It's about our currency. It is about maintaining our eco-social, market economy model in Europe and Austria. We are at the root of this question! [[Abg. Strache: But you have managed and prevented the crisis with the rescue package!]] [[Abg. Bucher: You said we were over the mountain! – Better think what you're talking about!]] That is why I invite you to reconsider the things that you have presented very populist and loud, and to take responsibility for Austria. That's the job we have to organize today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10211	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10232	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Of course, we have clearly recognized the scope and the problem – and also our expert, although at the time, at the hearing, was not yet talking about this rescue shield, but that was the first measure. Our expert has said what we, the Freedom Party and I personally, also firmly believe: One should have taken responsibility for the creditors of Greece – and these are the banks, not only banks from the euro area, but also banks outside the euro area, even banks outside the EU. They're leaning back now! First of all, we guarantee that they will receive their interest for the Greek government bonds, that they will not have to fear that these government bonds will sooner or later have a zero value, because we guarantee by means of a rescue shield of € 750 billion, of which 15 billion fall on us, on Austria. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that is the wrong way – we are firmly convinced of this! The right way would have been to talk to Greece in the form of insolvency proceedings, to put the Greeks together with their creditors and to make a debt discount. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then: How can Greece – and I am really sorry now – be able to deal with Greece within two or three years with the following burden? – First of all, the Greeks have to repay the money we have given them – “loaning” as you say so beautifully, as has been said before. How's that going? They're supposed to pay back the interest. How's that going? They're supposed to fix their economies. How should this go if they have to save continuously at the same time? – That can't be done! And you know this and all the finance ministers in the euro area and in the EU area know it. We're on the wrong way! We are firmly convinced of that. I would have written down a lot, but one thing I would like to say: Professor Van der Bellen, you know I appreciate your expertise very much, but what you said today is the difference between us both and between our thoughts in these two parties. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Thank God!]] They said – and you also called it literally and by name – that you want the US system in Europe: United States of Europe. And we don't want that! We want a union of European states that remain national states that remain sovereign! – Americans have had it easier: They first exterminated the original population and then expanded their system. That is not going to happen in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10299	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10320	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! No, Mr Weinzinger, we do not want the United States of Europe, at least not in the foreseeable future, but we want to do the right and necessary to secure our euro, and this is precisely what we are dealing with here and today – no more and no less. [[Abg. Street: But “More Europe”!]] It is said right in these days that we have won time. That's something. And the decisions that are now being taken are the Austrian contribution to the recovery of time and then to further action. By the way, there is optimism in my mind, because: What has not really progressed after the recession crisis, after the crisis of the banks, seems to be moving now. And I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance and the Heads of Government on what has now been decided on regulatory measures in terms of financial market, hedge funds, in terms of these infamous credit default swaps, in terms of government bonds and what you can't do in their environment – for example, empty sales – is going in the right direction, because finally nails are made with heads. This is an absolutely positive development, a positive side effect of the harmful development of the last few days around the euro. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At least one praises the Minister of Finance! The first! The first of your own party!]] Looks like: There can be no doubt about the shield. Now it may be said that 1.21 – the value of this morning – is a value for the euro, which also raises question marks, but as a last resort to the Austrian export economy, I say: Nothing worse is supposed to happen than that we as exporter in the dollar area have a relation of 1.21 to represent here. This is not the most dramatic of these times. In order to straighten out relations here, especially in the direction of opposition, ladies and gentlemen, I still come to the Greens, but now towards FPÖ and BZÖ, I can remind you that we are today deciding a liability framework of €15 billion and 2.3 billion in loans for Greece. May I remind you what the rescue measure for your – politically your – Hypo Alpe-Adria is? – By chance also about 17 billion € for the comparatively small Hypo Alpe-Adria in comparatively beautiful but small Carinthia. Same dimension! – So, ladies and gentlemen, spread ashes to your head! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the direction of the Greens and in particular in the direction of Mr Kogler: It would be nice if you were on board today. There is still the theoretical possibility to do so. Not that I am not also one of those who say it would be nice to see those who benefit directly/indirectly from these loans for Greece now because their own demands there will now be a lot safer to have also on board and take them into responsibility, but: You can wish for some things, not everything goes right. One is certainly the wrong way to put up a junkim here and say: If we introduce a VAT on exchange sales in Austria, and if we all vote in favour, the Greens will vote in favour of Greece's aid. – This is the wrong approach. Otherwise: a high level of responsibility and constructiveness, which is absolute for the other two opposition parties on this issue. But I'm sorry, as you said, that you're going to fail at this one point that's the wrong point.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10382	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10404	Mr. Weinzinger! I am with you what the – it is no longer a secret – probability of the need for restructuring of the Greek debt. I think, above all, that it is a smoothing, a smoothing of the repayments, because the Greek time limits are extremely unpleasant in the moment: By 2015, the main part of debt will be refinancing. You are also right that, if I had to vote, I would decide for the United States of Europe. But I know just as well as you do that I'm probably not going to experience it anymore. But you can hope anyway, can you? [[Abg. Weinzinger: I hope otherwise!]] If you think about it carefully, it is not surprising how much is going wrong at European level and what decisions are not made and how many are made wrong, but that – occasionally, in the well-known stage – something goes on at all. [[Abg. Weinzinger: How much goes wrong at American level!]] Then: Let us imagine and consider how Austria would be structured if we had the “constitutional structure” – under the quotations – of the European Union! Then we would have a National Council, which would look like now, but the Members would have less rights. [[Abg. Head: It's difficult enough now!]] Then there would be an Austrian commission of nine members. Each federal state sends a member to the Austrian Commission – preferably the one that is no longer needed in the country, just as Austria did last. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How now!]] [[Abg. Head: That wasn't fair now!]] [[Abg. Bucher: The failed politicians!]] Every now and then we send a good Commissioner, such as Mr Fischler. – But that would be the model on the Austrian level. And then we would have the real power center, the Austrian Council: It consists of the nine heads of state, who, sometimes with Verve, sometimes reluctant to operate and do the Austrian general good, so to speak – sometimes it goes well, sometimes it goes wrong. But these nine national leaders are elected in their countries, in Vorarlberg, in Burgenland, in Upper Austria and so on. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the structure we currently have in the European Union. And that won't be the way it will go, because Austria would be messing up in this way, well, but it wouldn't be nice and good.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10516	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10537	Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has made a fire brigade to remove a burning problem in Greece. But that does not mean that the founders are not yet prepared, so the real problems of financial markets have not yet been solved at the roots. The objective of a responsible policy must at present be stable, transparent and regulated markets, markets producing real goods, creating safe and good jobs and distributing profits fairly. And enemies of such a responsible policy are speculators, turbocapitalists, combined with a neoliberal policy, which is only to generate more profits as quickly as possible, without regard to losses – except, of course, their own – without regard to people and their rights, without regard to the danger of the environment or sustainable development. And to reckless spread, to blind speculation, to unrestricted tombs of entrenched markets, as social democrats, we clearly say no. We have also proposed a large, wide range of concrete measures on this No. I would like to address two of them in detail: on the one hand, the transaction tax – already much debated today – where, as Austria, France and Belgium, we were one of the first countries to make a wide-ranging close in Parliament on the question of international, European or other transaction taxes, and on the other hand, I would like to focus on the fact that it is not only regulatory measures for financial markets, but also financial markets, but also revenue effects that are generated – no net. And I think it's also important to talk about what you make sense with these revenues. And I am convinced that it would be important to return to this international level and ensure that burning global challenges, such as climate policy, such as development policy, can be met. These are policy areas for which we already lack the money, but which are of great importance for global social stability. Secondly, we are also in favour of a speculation ban, for example, with basic foods, because from our point of view it should not be possible that speculators from pure profit food prices increase more and more and now 1 billion people cannot afford the daily rice, maize or wheat and are chronically hungry. The financial crisis has really gone hand in hand with the hunger crisis, and this is not due, for example, to the poor, but simply to the fact that careless soccer has driven the prices to some astronomical heights. It is morally and politically unacceptable that in 2010 every seventh person on this earth really suffers from chronic hunger. Therefore, a meaningful intervention and regulation of the markets does not only contribute to the end of hunger, but also to greater justice in general in the global context. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10603	The amendment is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10658	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10679	Mr President. High house! Argentina, Venezuela, Chile, Bolivia, Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria, Russia and many, many more – over the last 30 years alone, more than 30 countries have argued. [[Call to the ÖVP:Accommodation goals?- Oh, my God!]] All these countries, including the favorite of all investors, Brazil, still exist. And as you can see from Brazil, the step in the inability to pay was also a very healthy one, because fundamental considerations were made. When we look at Greece, we see that this could also be a very liberating cleaning process for Greece. Greece has five times as many government staff per head of population as the United Kingdom. Greece has made the transition from an agricultural company to an official company. Greece is not competitive and will argue. In the meantime, all the experts say that – except for the professional optimists of the government. These are still relatively inconclusive as to whether Greece will plead, the international experts know already. If Mr. Ackermann, whose friend I am sure I am not, says that Greece will plead, then it could be – in addition to all the conspiracy theories I have heard here today – that he simply says the truth. He says the truth and I can imagine that Mr Ackermann has a very good insight into the Greek circumstances. So why are we paying for Greece when it is clear that Greece is pleading? Why do we throw Greece our good money behind it? We need to know that Greece cannot repay this money and that a state plate would be the only way out for Greece to get back on its feet. The only reason why we decide on this rescue shield, this aid package for Greece, is that banks should be saved once again. This aid package is a bank rescue package, a loss prevention package to give banks time to sell their Greek government bonds to the European Central Bank as far as possible, in order to ultimately re-evaluate the taxpayer with the losses arising. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Greece must even argue, and the invoice must pay those who have invested in Greek bonds – and not the citizens – because they have also earned them. It has a reason for banks with 6, 7, 8 percent interest-rate bonds to be deposited with a huge risk and then go back to the taxpayer and stop their hands to cover the losses. It can't be like that. I hear from the Lord Minister of Finance: We have to take the banks to the line. – It is not the policy that puts banks on the leash, but the banks put the policy on the leash and get their aid packages the way they need them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10726	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10747	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Lopatka! Ladies and gentlemen! For more than two years, we have been in the face of the hurricane of the world economic crisis, the financial crisis. [[Call the BZÖ:Ah go!]] The Greek problem is another expression of the same crisis. Not only was it, probably, but certainly it was reinforced by budgetary fraud in Greece, by structural problems that Greek society and the Greek economy have, but also by speculation and speculation over the last few months. Therefore, it was not the total collapse of Greece's pleite that was the opportunity to look into it, because that would have meant the total slip of the European currency. Rather, it was a question of making salvation for Austria and our currency and Europe as well. The rescue takes place for Greece through loans that must also be repaid – by the way, all the other examples of the history that the colleague has just shown show that the International Monetary Fund has also recovered its money – and also through the liability shield for the pan-European currency. For we must not let it please us as a Europe, nor do we like the fact that speculators, hedge funds, CDS and how they all call them their instruments, against Europe, against our societies and our economies. We put a bar in front of this and also respond with the liability shield. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is facing one of the biggest challenges of recent years, in fact decades. We are experiencing a system crisis in the economy and such a system crisis requires not only necessary rescue measures, but also urgent responses. Over the last 18 months, the EU has shown that it can act by coordinating the economic packages, the labour market packages, in all these areas. However, it has also shown its weaknesses in the Greek crisis, because the EU should have acted much faster and should act much faster. But even though we are criticising this, we must say that the EU has acted properly, otherwise this would have meant massive rejection for the entire euro area. The shield, which we are now straining, is based on European solidarity and also on the self-responsibilities of the members of the European Union. But, as has already been said, both the EU and the Eurogroup must not allow speculative attacks, including on one of their member countries. A speculative attack on one of the Member States is a speculative attack on the whole European Union. But I mean, besides the rescue, we also have to fight against the causes. We therefore need comprehensive reforms, if we want to do so, in two areas. One is financial market regulation in Europe and Austria, i.e. to regulate rating agencies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker]] A first important step has also been taken. I hope that the agreement between Parliament and the European Commission will also bring in the necessary additional focus on hedge funds, on the financial transaction tax, which I hope will really be introduced at European level, on the CDS regulation, on the prohibition of empty sales and on how all these measures are called. The concepts are on the table. There's enough reports. It's about implementing them. However, we also need to acknowledge that we need more coordination in European economic policy, more coordination also for more growth in Europe. If you want to, there are three important points: stability and regulation; Consolidation – but I also have to say that the debt and our deficit are not the cause of the crisis but were caused by the crisis; we still had 0.4% deficit before the crisis, and it has grown to 3.4% in 2009 and to 4.7% in the meantime; these are also the costs of the crisis which we unfortunately need to face – and we will need coordinated measures for European and Austrian growth. [[Abg. Kickl: But you had a deficit! And in the crisis, we are now going to be rehabilitating! Great!]] However, let me conclude by saying clearly to colleagues – ladies and gentlemen – who are trying to talk about the end of the euro : [[Abg. Kickl: In this form! The ECB is now the opposite of what it should be!]] There will be no return to the old world when it comes to the necessary reorganisation of the world economy and the European economy. Nor do we want new protectionism, nor do we want the new nationalism you are talking about here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we need is common answers at European and international level, now more than ever before. [[Abg. Kickl: We don't need an internationalism at all!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10838	For the last round of speakers, 2 minutes are available per speech. Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10915	High house! I'm doing it a little shorter, two minutes aren't much. Again, the question of Greece's rescue package: Who will be saved? – But not the Greeks or the euro. Banks are being saved, that's come a few times. But the essential thing is that the Austrian taxpayer has to pay. I wonder, How do Austrian taxpayers get to finance credit and liability for Greece if they know that the funds are certainly not repaid again? How are the Austrian taxpayers to take over credit and liability for Greece, for a country that has lived in the eyes of the EU for years over the conditions and has accumulated government debt of up to €300 billion, up to the inability to pay? How are taxpayers in Austria to pay for a country that has brought the EU into the euro area with wrong budget figures? How are taxpayers going to take money to ensure that the Greeks want to spend a further €7.6 billion on military expenditure? We want to know what the Austrian and the Austrian want and therefore make the following request: Request for a referendum § 84 GOG-NR iVm Art. 43 B-VG by Mr Strache, colleagues on 736 d.a. on balance of payments stabilisation law – ZaBiStaG. The National Council wants to decide: ‘That due to 736 d.a. on Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act – ZaBiStaG, to be passed law of the National Council is after termination of the procedure in accordance with Art. 42 B-VG, but before the Federal President’s approval, to have a referendum.’ I would ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10953	The request is under negotiation and will be put to the vote after the debate. Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e10978	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current economic and financial crisis, we all hope, will be manageable. If she has had something good, it is, I think, that many of us have come to think and perhaps also to think about it. A ambiguity is now clear to everyone as well: Debts you've entered are to be refunded. I don't think that was so clear to everyone. At any rate, I believe that not only Greece and some southern European countries are the great debtors we are talking about, but virtually all the countries of the world, all the countries of Europe, are facing this problem. I also believe that we all have to end the vices of consumption on pump and return to the virtues of reason and moderation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Why does the ÖVP live on pump?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I am therefore personally convinced, Mr Oellinger, that, if we want to shape our future and those of our children properly, we will have to work on our scale of values. We should reconsider some of our behavior. We must establish new rules in many areas and we must begin to thank God for the rules in the financial system. A great deal has already been done at European level and I believe that there is still a lot to be done. I would also like to say at this point that the financial transaction tax was certainly not only an invention of SPÖ, but that Sepp Pröll called for it in the perspective group a few years ago. [[Abg. Kickl: As with the Homo-Eh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker:... the Green!]] Four years ago, here, all of us, in May 2006, we voted in favour of an all-party proposal and called for it unanimously. At any rate, our Minister of Finance has proved itself to be a crisis manager in Austria and Europe in the last few days and weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that we can agree with the measures we are taking today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11069	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11091	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Glaser, thinking alone will not be enough in this situation. Now we are dealing with action and the fight against causes. If you keep mentioning the importance of debt reduction today, especially the ÖVP colleagues, and calling it the major cause of the crisis, then, ladies and gentlemen, remember that this is an impact of the crisis and speculation on the financial markets. You have to sit there and act. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And what was before? You're pretending we didn't have any debts before!]] The crisis that arose from the financial markets has led to billions of packages for the economy, billions of packages for banks. This has led to the explosion of budget deficits. That is why it is now important to act in this area. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What was before?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: An ÖVP Finance Minister!]] Today, we are submitting a proposal which deals very comprehensively with the financial markets and their regulation. We need full transparency in the markets and therefore, both at European and Austrian level, a sound financial market surveillance system. It is also about distributing the burden justly. We need a re-indebted package, which also brings the creditors to account for Greece's aid. One final example: In Austria, we finally need a reform of the professional image of the financial service provider for Austrian consumers in order to provide appropriate protection. The great common bond on Europe will be an agreed common financial and economic policy. That is what is at your choice today, and you have the choice either to implement the reforms now, to put them on safety, or to continue leaving people in uncertainty and to link up the next billion-hard package.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11154	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11175	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Lord City Councils! - Excuse me, Secretary of State! – Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was the Faymann!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! – [[Abg. Strache: “City councils!” – Mr. Faymann is not here!]] As for adult men who laugh when they promise, the spectators can make their own picture anyway. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor, I recommend that you leave your predecessor to the panel more often, because all the arguments and disagreements we have, apart from the clearly serious analysis of your predecessor, fade away that the social state and the expenditure for the social state are now due to the crisis – I am continuing to explain what my colleague Krainer has said – that expenditure on kindergarten, expenditure on the schools of children, expenditure on hospitals is due to the crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the good and the bad taxes?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: No one said that! You didn't watch!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and ÖVP]] I've heard that with wonder. [[Abg. Head: Who said that? What kind of social democracy did that say?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, the speculators, the greed and the uncontrolled financial markets were guilty of this crisis. That is why, of course, Europe needs to ensure stability together in the course of the Greek package. The same is true of Europe, however, when it comes to a close of its shoulders. I hope that all the parliamentary parties will be involved in protecting the welfare state of Austria, the citizens of Austria and the whole of Europe from the consequences of the crisis, from massive attacks on the social state. We in Europe should be able to regulate and control the financial markets so that such a crisis does not happen again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11294	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11315	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you a question, Mr Finanzminister, following the explanations of the SPÖ's hope for the future. [[Sadness at the BZÖ]] One always pretends that this crisis would suddenly have broken over us and that we had no time for reactions. For two years now, we have known what hedge funds and speculators can do globally. All these things that we have now discussed – you have said that now a task force is coming into the EU and that you will be negotiating violently on the rules of the financial markets – should have been implemented over the last two years. Of course, we cannot do this at national level, no question. This would require the European Union. But the European Union is also unable to act in this area, because the speculators and profit-makers are also sitting there, such as on the London financial market, which we secure with these packages and with the tax money we use for the liabilities and guarantee their profits. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister! What is so upset and excited about us is that we have not done any junkims either, that we say, well, it is necessary to make reforms now, but on the other hand, we also demand the mandatory introduction of these rules for financial markets. Nothing of that has happened. If one criticizes the individual measures, then it is said that one must not disturb – yes, of course, we have heard that again today – because that hurts. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Mr Finanzminister, if you say that the package that has been tied up with Greece is unrealistic, because these savings plans cannot be implemented in the short time, and Greece will therefore not repay this money, then this is not a false criticism, but unfortunately the reality. We have seen that, too, because this package of Greece is stuffed. This great rescue action was also necessary because the speculators then chose Portugal and Spain as their target and American banks gave up their loans to these countries. You don't talk about that, because against America, against Obama – hurra! – let us not say anything: the President who then calls on Mrs Merkel and calls for action. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] – These are the problems we want to discuss! And finally, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to see an Austrian politician – whether it is Chancellor or vice chancellor – who once threatens a veto in a European body to enforce reasonable rules. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] I hope it will happen sometime – soon, but still – too; so far we are waiting for such a measure in the sense of Austria unfortunately in vain.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11395	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11416	Mr President. We see that the debate on the financial markets is very comprehensive, and the government parties too have already announced a few weeks ago that it is necessary to introduce a bank levy. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The concrete design is not clear – there is, it seems, no agreement yet. That is why we want to speed up the process and support you in decision-making, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and SPÖ! That is why, on behalf of the honourable Member Glawischnig-Piesczek, Kogler, Lichtenecker, friends and friends, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is certainly also in your sense that in this important matter, in the sense of Austrian taxpayers, a little further progress is being made. – In this sense we ask you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11468	The next speaker was Mr Windholz. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11489	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! This is a broad debate on an extremely important decision, because it is about a lot – it is about very, very much! Some even say that, in truth, it is about a basis of existence. The Minister of Finance tells us that 16 finance ministers cannot be mistaken – alone, I lack faith. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Krainer.]] I think you have made a decision on this, but that is not the best way. On the way you're going now, you're also often talking about victim protection. – Who are the real victims now? So we hear again and again, there are Austrian banks hanging in there with €5 billion. – These are also victims, but how did they deserve to be treated in such a way, namely to be treated so positively, if one considers that one has made the most cheap money, with 1 percent interest, fat, thick profits, and now that the whole thing collapses like a card house, the call becomes loud: Please help us, help us with tax money! – And the 16 Finance Ministers mentioned stand ready! It will be no different in the other EU countries, because there is also a vital interest of the banks. They do, however, ignore the question of the perpetrators, the question of the speculators. These are Sunday speeches, general places, and it happens in this area as always little to nothing. That is really to be criticised. And then you want to talk to us, we don't give, we're just bailing, and then tell us the €15 billion – what a brilliant idea! – are just a rework and these are only liabilities! – In the case of what you know about Greece, the common sense tells you that these liabilities can very well be struck in an order of magnitude, where you wonder who will then stay on the track in Austria. Even before this crisis in Greece, before this euro crisis, it was clear to all of us that you are entering a burden killing. Wait for party-tactic considerations You just cut off the country elections, but there will be a lot going down on the Austrian population – and with what you're preparing here, all this won't get better, but it's probably going to get much worse. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, the answers you give are, at least, a very, very unsatisfying matter for Austrian taxpayers. Rhethorically impoverished you, you succeed, but I can only tell you one thing – because you are always so angry at the opposition –: In any case, the opposition here speaks out the truth of this speaker's vote, namely that for taxpayers there is a There is extremely negative development; and it is therefore no wonder that we have to refuse your consent here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11546	The motion for a resolution tabled by the previous speaker, Mrs Lichtenecker, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11593	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11614	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Today, we have often heard that the EU countries have lived over their conditions. I think this is a little presumptuous, because the population of Europe has certainly not lived over their conditions! Our population, starting with the small entrepreneurs and their families, their employees and families, suffers poverty – and we go here and move today, as we have heard from the past, billions of money to Brussels and, in addition, to Greece. In autumn, there will be a massive tax increase package that will force the middle class to kneel. The only ones who have to save are the Austrian taxpayer and the Austrian taxpayer. The ÖVP and Mr Pröll are very sumptuous. Now it finally needs action and not a quake, because this today's federal framework law is nothing but a new banking promotion law. [[OBJECTIVES]] All the forecasts for the future are far too optimistic! Save, as has been said, only the citizen, but these pocket playing tricks of the ÖVP and our Minister of Finance will have to be noticed, and the citizen will appreciate that. [[Abg. Neugebauer: The time of the Faschings speeches has long passed!]] The development of revenue – tax increases alone amounting to € 12 billion by 2014 – is an insanity! This is a catalogue of horrors that is covered by our Austrian population. From Finance Minister Pröll to IV Secretary-General Beyrer, Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn to Angela Merkel: All demand a European debt brake. There's nothing going on up to now! A corresponding application concerning the limitation of the re-indebtedness of the federal, state and Municipalities were introduced by the BZÖ in December of the previous year. Now we, the BZÖ, are making a further request in this direction, and I am sure that this time the ÖVP and the government will go along with the fact that the debt brake will finally be attracted by limiting the re-indebtedness of federal, state and local authorities. [[Abg. Grosz: I don't believe that!]] I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11685	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11739	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11761	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner said earlier that it would be nice if a Austrian politician at European level did not do what the European nomenclature demanded of him, but went his own way and perhaps even threatened with a veto. – Ladies and gentlemen! There is an opportunity for us to go a different way – and this reason, which I am presenting here today, is the enlargement of the euro zone. Today, it has come out quite clearly – with all the differing views we have – that the euro is really on top of it and that under these conditions it may not be wise to extend the euro zone. Let's take a look at the candidates: We have Poland – a lot of growth, a lot of debt – we have Bulgaria – lied to the Bulgarians, so clearly we have to say that – we have Latvia, where a double-digit deficit threatens, we have Lithuania – where deficit and new debt are twice as high as allowed – we have Hungary as one of the first victims of crisis, we have Czech Republic – that will probably only join in 2019 – we have Romania – the situation is known – and we now have Estonia as a concrete candidate. I know the figures that exist are correct and are quite fine, but the ECB is also saying here that it has doubts about the sustainability of Estonian inflation control. And under these conditions, to agree to an extension of the euro zone would be irresponsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a request that our Minister for Finance be asked to vote against the enlargement of the euro zone in the Council of Ministers' vote. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to show your backbone here and do not agree with this accession – also in the sense of the euro, in the sense of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11824	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11878	The last speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11900	Mr President. The new introduction of the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Glavischnig-Piesczek, Kogler, Lichtenecker, colleagues on causes - instead of combating symptomism in Greece's aid and in the euro package - will give me the opportunity to replicate briefly on this previous issue. I would therefore like to repeat the motion for a resolution just mentioned, and I would like to make it clear to him in the broad outlines that this is a matter of various concern. Firstly, more is to be done at EU level with regard to the contribution of creditors, as often discussed. In addition, financial market surveillance authorities should be strengthened there, according to the Commission's proposals, which are far more widespread than the current package. The regulatory rules also include an intensification at EU level, and last but not least, pressure should be exerted on Greece to ensure that there can be a legal persecution of the budget deficits. As far as Austria is concerned, everything is not the best. You know very well that there is an FMA package, a real act that gives the FMA more teeth – but it's around somewhere because you can't agree on it – and that could have been on the trip since the Banking Committee, because it would be useful and necessary. And – actually a very typical situation – as the last one, I can remind you that, at the initiative of Mr Pilz, a unanimous request concerning financial services assistants was adopted here, namely on 10 June. ==References== It was agreed that now something should have come into the house in this respect, it should have already come already. We are once again pressured to see that there is something going on, because that is the very things that leave us in doubt about their credibility – that was the issue today. And by the way, Mr Hofer: Estonia would be one of the very, very few countries that would meet the criteria of monetary union.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e11939	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled was tabled by the honourable Member. Kogler explains in his fundamentals whether his scope is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 in the meantime and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12041	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act to take part in international balance of payments stabilisation, in 736 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional proposal. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Strache, fellow Members, requested that the draft law, which was contrary to Article 42 of the Federal Constitutional Act, be put to a referendum before the Federal President's approval. First of all, I will vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned, then on the parts affected by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The vote on the request of Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues for a referendum will be taken in accordance with § 84 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council after the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President, on the insertion of a new Z5. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a positive sign. [[Abg. Krainer: Who can tell me who can be against it!]] – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who give their approval to these parts for a sign on this point. – This is also accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. [[Call:Two Greens]] - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, to subject to a referendum decision following the termination of the procedure in accordance with Article 42 of the Federal Constitutional Act. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, on the rapid introduction of the bank and insurance levy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Bucher, colleagues, on the limitation of the re-indebtedness of the federal, state and local authorities. [[Abg. Riepl: The booker is missing!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on causes - instead of symptoms of Greece's aid and Euro-package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. Rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Interbank Strengthening Act, including the title and receipt in 737 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. That's why it's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:20:01]] 4. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (660, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 – BFRG 2011–2014 (689 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12151	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Grastaur's speech. Set speaking time: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12178	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today we are dealing with the strategy report 2011 to 2014. The way in which we talk about the strategies in spring and the figures in autumn goes back to the new budgetary law, and I must note that this new budgetary law is already effective. It favours the formation of reserves, avoids the “December fever” positively, is also that there are expenditure limits and that – at least in the approach – there is a sparing thought. However, this strategy report is really not a big throw. One has the impression that the numbers in it have been created by a computer program. Otherwise, it could not happen that the planned expenditure in the field of education, research and development is a minus. Unfortunately, the Strategy Report does not include any new strategies, except the already known projects already presented in the Government Convention, where one is constantly saying that one must and should be – but there are no concrete measures to be taken. You don't know what new taxes are coming or what taxes are planned. I also miss a commitment in this strategy report to comprehensive reforms in the areas of state, administration, health, social and bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, when, if not now, in this sad budgetary situation, will you implement these reforms? The starting point is the 2009 government budget. I remember that we owe €200 billion and pay €6.7 billion each year in interest. The federal arrests – and this is particularly dangerous! – has increased to € 124 billion in Austria. ==References====External links== April 1970, when he came to power, deeply regrets that he - from his predecessor Klaus - had to take over 9 billion schilling debts. – That wouldn’t be even €700 million today! The development was that since the Second Republic, ÖVP and SPÖ have allowed high debt and deficits. – Now we've reached €200 billion! I would like to draw some points from the strategy report itself. For example, tax revenue is forecast to increase 3.3 percent per year – with GDP growth of 1.8 percent. That means we get a higher tax burden, which is certainly very, very bad for the economy. As far as expenditure is concerned, it is well known that it is saved. – Unfortunately, these are not real savings, because we still increase expenditure by 2.4 percent per year. The reason for this is that the so-called consolidation contributions are only reduced future expenditure increases – so one reduces the increases a little; that is totally misleading. The federal debt will increase by approximately €45 billion by 2014; that is, we will be at €250 billion in debt. In addition, national debt of €20 billion, ASFINAG debt of about €30 billion. With the ÖBB and with 125 billion € liability we have reached in Greek conditions, ladies and gentlemen! You have to know: We face a debt ratio of almost 76 percent of GDP. The interest rate of € 10.6 billion, which is about to be expected, accounts for 16 percent of all Federal revenue – a disaster! In this context, the Commission will be able to give Approach is certainly not talking about consolidation, because debt policy is continuing on the back of future generations. I miss the political will here that the tax will finally be torn around, and I am trying to really think about whether we can continue to work in this Schlendrian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12240	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12261	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur has rightly presented some of the points in this strategy report and has also explained some positive intentions contained in it. It is a duty to do so. However, it has been made too little clear that the will to advance fiscal consolidation is clear. This overall package will still deal with us accordingly in autumn, which is no question at all, because the decisive thing will be to slow down the trend towards continuing the deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, it must also be clear that any permanent structural change and any savings measure will at first take even more effort, and we should also be aware that this federal framework law is a new way that we have taken. – One could almost talk about a pilot project in the European Union. It is also clear that the individual Federal Ministers are more required in their areas than before, that a budget cover is required, but that ministers have more scope within their own area. It has already been rightly pointed out that the “November fever” has been eliminated once and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate, it was complained that the euro was not a hard currency, nor the panacea. – The latter may be already. The fact, however, is that – as some clearly have memory gaps – the euro had a price of about 0.82 to the dollar for about two years after its introduction. There was great pity. Then he stood at 1,60; then the export industry complained. – He was overrated. Ladies and gentlemen, if one knows that a substantial part of the wealth in Austria depends on export, that the jobs of 2.1 million people in employment are de facto secured by export and that in Upper Austria alone 349,000 people live from export and find employment through export, then I believe we should not be worse off than a Euro course of 1,20 or 1,21. This helps the export industry and ultimately also the security of Austrian jobs. – You should say that too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Also interesting is the following: We have a dramatic complaint about what's wrong. I was last weekend with a very interesting economic delegation in Denmark. Denmark, as we know, is a member of the European Union, but not a member of monetary union. Do you know what the Danes have explained to us during this local discussion? – Denmark’s government hastens to take over the euro. – Interesting! Interesting in this discussion was also: Although Denmark is not a member of the European Monetary Union, it is very likely that €12 billion has been recovered from the ECB for the stabilisation of the Danish banks. – Interesting, ladies and gentlemen, especially because we believe everything is so bad and we do not have the budget under control. It is undisputed that Denmark had de facto zero debt before the crisis – which started dramatically two years ago – because the budget had accordingly been consolidated. In the meantime – within two years – Denmark is already close to 45 percent of GDP in terms of government debt. There you can see how fast that can go. It is also interesting to note that according to Eurostat, unemployment is 7.5 percent in Denmark. So we are obviously not on the road in Austria! – I would also like to mention this in the context of this debate. I would like to thank you on this occasion for the very fair and constructive discussion in the Committee on Budgets when we discussed this law. It was also interesting in the context of this discussion that although the political groups had different opinions, almost equal opinions from the experts were to be heard. The experts have actually advised us to wait for autumn to know how it really looks with the needs, with the difficulties, with the assessment, with the effects. – That was quite interesting. I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets for its debate on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, we should say a little more confident that Austria, as regards employment, the employment rate, social expenditure or health policy, is a very positive country. We shouldn't talk worse than it is. We will certainly need optimism, ladies and gentlemen, because economics is also a matter of the mood. However, for a negative economic situation I am not to have, and for negative, critical remarks no one gets paid in the long run, ladies and gentlemen, but this at most results in a bad image and bad figures. We should do everything we can to ensure that positive upward development in Austria is possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12331	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 8 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12399	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has also said something about the procedure. We have called more often here that the financial framework or the new federal budgetary law is in itself a good thing. - That's what we see. We have once tried to proceed this way in committee, even with the hearing. That is, I think, quite good and was also relatively open. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Very good!]] We have already experienced budget hearings, in which everyone has only spoken his text anyway. This time – perhaps also due to the current situation – it was a very open discussion. In addition, however, we will have to reform this because we can either discuss the sections along the idea or even make a more general debate there, because there is still too little to say about individual ministries. – We finally agreed to this procedure, but with the reference to the fact that one should actually evaluate the matter. This is, of course, a matter for Parliament and will perhaps also be reflected in the President-in-Office at some point. That would be a sensible way of doing things. Mr Auer, perhaps You as an observer have an eye on it! On the matter itself: The subject has already been discussed a few times, so you do not have to shed tears if the debate is going to be a little shorter today and the great emotion is no longer inside. In order to recall the points of view: The financial framework is, of course, primarily about the expenditure side, and we also need to take a brief look at the revenue side, because otherwise the context is relatively difficult to explain. It is a lot of talk about saving. I also think it is right that you should look at exactly what continues to be spent and where to go back. One even recognizes slight nuances in the headings as regards the reclassifications, but the expressions are relatively small. You will not be surprised that especially the speakers of the green club will address the situation of research, education and universities in particular, and that there will at least be too much of the good and thus the bad. Just as it now stands on the unis, it is simply not happening and does not make sense to let them down even less. The fact that those at the universities might be even more efficient is another question, I cannot judge. But with a free eye, I believe to realize that these savings are not targeted. I think the Austrian rectors are responsible enough to know what they are talking about when they say that this goes far too far and that this is so steep down in particular that many things that are wrong can no longer be maintained. That's why it's not done well and that's why it needs to be more differentiated. In this respect, the accusation of the lawn mower method remains upright, even if there or there – like the English gardeners – you vary the height of the cut. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the next point: Finally, of course, it makes sense to look closely at the areas in which, despite the crisis, expenditure should be reduced, perhaps even more spent. The chairman of the Council for Research and Technology Development, as I believe, not quite wrong, said that one must also spend money at certain places, he probably meant; he does not mean, for all budget expenditure, that is, to invest in order to earn more later. In the area just mentioned, this principle seems to me to be grossly infringing. Then there are areas where we agree that something has to happen, for example in the “famous” administrative reform. – No one can hear that anymore, but it is all the more necessary. It is argued – and this will certainly be the case again today – that this would have to be done within the resorts. This is purely formal in principle, because every issue is going somewhere in a post and therefore, of course, in some place and in some category – that can't be different at all – only: That is why the administrative reform is still not taking place! If you let all ministers drive, this is not an administrative reform either. We know that this can only be centrally coordinated. Since, I have to say honestly, you or some responsible ones have gone out of the air. It is not yet recognizable how to bring the countries into the boat, in particular. So I'm at the next point: Especially the countries in this process have a status that seems a bit strange to me. You would not have had a hundred percent obligation to decide on tax revenue now; this is only done in the accompanying report. 35 percent of this revenue goes to municipalities and countries. It has been granted to the municipalities, but we know exactly that most of the savings potential lies with the countries. To announce this now, so to speak – you can't go back for yourself! – but at the same time not to take the countries into a kind of contractual obligation, as these could now become more efficient and should also, I do not think this is particularly wise for negotiation. You will really have to explain this now – perhaps it is quite different what I would like, but I do not yet recognize it. Now to my last point, to the revenue: I am really excited about when the templates to the annual budget will come into the house here. In recent times, I have repeatedly heard explanations that everything might go out. Since you have been exposed to the accusation for months, it is obvious to you that we have already come to such an extent that, in any case, there is a breach of the constitution when the documents are only transmitted after the required legal deadlines, and I have heard it a little differently lately. I'm excited about what the last stand is. However, it is particularly original to note that it is good to plan later, because we are now seeing that we have been stopped by the EU, perhaps not to save so much, because others have to save more. – We know the background and know where it comes from. So it can't be that in January/February 2010, we should rely on a euro crisis to get some of the EU and say that a few countries need to reduce less debt and a few countries, because overall debt has to be reduced, and that we should wait for another year with our basic schedules, because the decisions could still be revised if we wanted to. I'll leave you alone with our factual arguments today. We have exchanged these and we will exchange them in other public places even more often. I would only be interested to see you here in the National Council taking a position on these deadlines, because you as the Federal Government are obliged to deliver these documents to the House. In the matter itself a last thing: It will not help if we act here as if we had two federal governments. In particular, the Social Democrats will advertise their keywords until the Party Day, which is already taking place in June. What happens then, we don't know. As a general rule, this half of the bank is carried out. [[The speaker points to the side of the government bank behind it, to the Vice-Cancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll and State Secretary Dr. Lopatka sit.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] - No, you shouldn't call that loud. Except you know again that you do not prevail with 90 percent of your claims. But there are certain concerns that we support, which is not a question, and vice versa, even if we were to address the greening of the tax system. But you know very well that we need a major change in the system, i.e. an ecological social tax reform. I don't understand at all how one can act on the part of two supposedly state-bearing parties that form a government at this point in such a way that for months one serves the public in such a way that one half says we are doing only that, the other are the villains, because they grab you in the pocket, and vice versa. That's supposed to be a federal government? – Now you agree on something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that this theatre continues until after the country elections, you shouldn't believe it to the people. We Greens will try to get you to put the cards on the table before.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12465	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12486	Mr President. I believe that in front of me, the Greens have just spoken for the Styrian country election. Perhaps you have to put this speech in order. But that's okay. Good luck at all times at the choice! [[Cheerfulness of Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I think he's staying with us!]] What surprises me a little is the criticism that the government is now doing what we have decided unanimously here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What?]] We decided unanimously that in spring the government should present the financial framework, and in autumn the detailed budget. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Passt eh!]] And nothing else does the government now. It now presents the framework and also makes clear the ratio in which consolidation should take place on the part of the revenue side and on the part of the expenditure side. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: If she's there in the autumn, no one will get up!]] And that is against the background that we all understand – at least I have believed so far, everyone has understood what it is all about in the new budgetary law – that every minister now has a reasonable time to think about how he can keep the framework in his own place, so that he does not become hectic under time pressure in October, as he has always been, in the last week, then sometimes a little bit of a hush-brush story happens and no reasonable and resource-saving policy takes place. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes eh!]] We have now changed this structurally by creating the structures that there is some automation to act a little bit, and it does not come to a “December fever”. We know that in the first year alone, 1 billion € will be saved over reserves; this money would have been spent earlier. It is now also being spent, but more targeted, more thoughtful, because there is simply no pressure: ==References== December the money has expired! And that alone shows how reasonable this new budgetary law is. I'm wondering about the criticism, which is: Now put the details on the table! - They're coming in autumn. This was always planned, the difference is that already in May or April, the government must present the framework, which is happening, including the individual members of the government. I think that's good and right. Now there are the calls: They don't give us pure wine! – I claim: They give us much more pure wine than before. In the past, we had not received the numbers we now have until October. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But it has been announced that the budget will not come until next year!]] That's good, that's right, and that's what we're supporting. There is also the accusation: There's only a minimal difference. – I mean, the factor is four times. We talk about 400 percent more in one area than in the other, the fourfold of the lawn mower adjustment! In some areas, the cut is cut away four times as much as in others, four times as strong. That's not just a nuance, it's just a quadruple, and that's not a trifle. We support the BHG, we consider it balanced from the revenue and expenditure side. And we also consider differentiation to be balanced, namely, that measures in the future areas are very different from those in areas where we see higher potential for savings. But – and this is very important for the detailed work in autumn –: The experts gave us three things. The first is, they said, decide as late as possible – because we do not yet know how the economy is going. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's always done!]] We'll decide this in the autumn, and the experts say, as late as possible. I say as early as the Constitution requires. But you're in this tension ratio. The second thing they said is that we must ensure that both the revenue side and the expenditure side measures do not endanger the economy and thus jobs and do not build the future, i.e. that we do not build the future through savings. There must be a social symmetry, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. The SPÖ proposals were also addressed. I believe that our proposals on the revenue side meet all these criteria. They cost almost no economic growth and therefore no jobs. They are socially fair, they are also suitable for the future, because then the scope for future investment in future areas such as education and the like is also available. The third thing the experts have given us is money for offensive action. This means that we also need to ensure that there is additional funding for future investment. There are proposals for ecologisation, thermal rehabilitation and also for education. This also depends heavily on how well the individual resorts save and what potentials are available. People who look closely at the law see that there is an area where savings are still possible, and of course these funds must be available for these future investments. Education and ecologicalisation are also important, including issues of social justice – these are for us these future investments – care, health et cetera, where we also expect there to be a certain margin in autumn. We in Parliament also say: If we put the lid on it now, we are ready to talk with these things, then we are flexible in the case of future investments, provided that the overall lid remains. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12625	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12648	Mr President. Federal Minister! For 5,000 years, you will need, Minister of Finance, to achieve the goal of the Court of Auditors' savings of €7 billion if you continue at this pace. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll beats his hands together.]] You've got... – I'm telling you right now. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who figured this out?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka.]] You have now launched concrete administrative reform steps of €2.1 million in a year and a half – in one and a half years. That is, if you continue this way, you will create the 7 billion target in 5,000 years. And there's another one saying to me, the government doesn't think long-term. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yeah, right!]] So really, very long-term thought, just I believe... – Mr Finance Minister, I think you should think a little bit more quickly and your zeal, which you have in tax increases, may also be putting something on your mind as far as the expenditure side and the tax reform are concerned. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: So you have at Hypo Alpe-Adria...!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: This is your Carinthian bill!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Where do we have tax increases?]] [[Abg. Krainer:... editions is bigger, 60 : 40!]] That's right. You say 60: 40. But what are you doing? You say 60: 40, yes, that's right. But what happens? First of all, the proposals for tax increase are very concrete, and there is nothing on the savings side. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] Then there will be very, very much time, there will be tax increases, then there will be no savings measures, and then the new tax increases will come. [[Abg. Krainer: Secretary of State Lopatka...!]] We've seen it all over the last 30 years. [[Abg. Krainer: 30 years ago you haven't experienced anything yet!]] [[Cheerfulness on the government bank.]] In the last 30 years, they have done nothing but put their heads in the sand, increased taxes, then before the election, to distribute a sugar in the hope that first the debt will pay the following generations, and second, the people will forget the horrors you have committed to them. [[Abg. Krainer: Mr Lugar is twisting...!]] But this has to stop now, Minister of Finance. It must definitely stop if we do not want to suffer a fate like Greece. In 10 to 20 years at the latest, we are exactly where Greece is today, with an inflated official apparatus, with an ineffective administration, and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Are you talking about Carinthia?]] In other words, we now need a finance minister who is finally dealing with the problems. We do not need another finance minister who moves the problems into the future. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Don't do it!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Meischberger? Who do you want?]] This common practice of walling, blocking, sitting out now no longer works. And we don't need you to do that either, Minister of Finance. That's where we can put everyone. We don't need you to do that. What we need, Minister of Finance, is for you to finally... [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: How long have you been preparing?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, if you are speaking, then you can give anything of your own, but if I am speaking, I would ask you to grant this to me too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Cheerfulness on the government bank.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where is Mr. Westenthaler?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Here you also give something... of yourself! That's right!]] Mr Finanzminister, I do trust you that you will be able to deal with the problems, I do not say that you are not able to do so. I'm just saying you're missing the courage. You lack the courage to take your uncle with the horns once more and to make a little progress in the federalism debate, in the hospital debate, in the administrative reform. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Take your uncle Erwin from the horns! Imagine the interests of Austria before the interests of the heads of state – including your uncle – and do what is necessary! [[Abg. Krainer:..., that's incredible!]] That is why we need a Minister of Finance to tackle this issue, and we need a Minister of Finance to solve the problems. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... Bull!]] And I say quite frankly to you, Minister of Finance: What you have shown so far is clearly too little! That's why: Take courage, deal with the problems and strict You're more interested in it, above all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12968	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e12999	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I must now try to strike the bridge from the hustle and bustle of my previous speaker's speech to an objective debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act. I hope I succeed. I will not bring any such bold comparisons as Mr Vice-Chancellor may take his uncle with the horns. I will not bring such comparisons, I will concentrate on the objective debate. Ladies and gentlemen! When we started to base this new budget right in a working group of the Budget Committee a few years ago – together with Mr Steger and his team – we did not know that it would be so right at exactly the time we needed it. Especially now, in the phase of a necessary budget consolidation, we can only be glad that we have such a modern budgetary right that de facto takes up a debt brake, namely by covering expenditure for the next four years. It is also an example of Europe. It has received great attention in Brussels. The Minister of Finance was repeatedly asked to show how this budget right works. We have set a best practice example for Europe. And it is, I believe, the instrument with which we have given the necessary homework to every minister through the cover of expenditure. We must no longer live on our relations. That's what we did. We are still far away from Greece, but we have lived over our conditions. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Who is “we ”?]] I also say the following because the question always comes: What does “living about the conditions ” mean? Mr Krainer asked: If the little nurse has lived over her conditions, has the minimum pensioner lived over his conditions? – Of course not! The definition is very simple. “Living about conditions” means when a state spends more than it takes over years. So simple is the definition of “living about the conditions. ” Austria has also spent many years, more than it has taken. That is why we now have the need for fiscal consolidation. [[Abg. Riepl: Debt is the crisis!]] Mr Riepl, you know that this cannot be done in the long run. I'll give you the right to: It sounded good at the beginning of the 1970s, in secret: “A few billion more state debt makes me less sleepless nights than a few hundred thousand unemployed.” – It sounded wonderful, and even today may sound good in some ears, but sometime the hour of truth comes. [[Abg. Riepl: figures are the ones that are to blame!]] Debts are like a drug: At first, you're high because you can realize things you could never do, and afterwards evil awakening comes. We are already very close to it, and, Mr Riepl, we now have to deal with this debt reduction. That is why we agreed in the coalition that we are saying: Okay, first of all, all ministers have to do their homework by autumn, and just in the late autumn they have to put forward their concrete proposals on how these covers can be achieved. The budget has two sides: Income and expenditure. We have also agreed on this – everything will not go on the expenditure side – a part, 40 percent, will be done on the revenue side. [[Abg. Riepl: The rich are also to pay!]] What bothers me a little bit is that internal, in the ministries is being worked on the expenditure side, but in the public debate I am constantly hearing only new tax proposals. I don't like that. We are in one agreement: We, the government parties, want a bank tax together, we want a financial transaction tax at European level. – Otherwise, we differ. It's not a shame. There are two parties in the government which have completely different regulatory, social and economic locations. No question at all. [[Abg. Riepl: The rich against the poor!]] For me, every tax idea must be measured: Is it growth-enhancing or growth-inhibiting? I also say you have to be very careful. The Federal Chancellor has made the statement that he is against mass taxes. – Let us be very careful, ladies and gentlemen, because a bank tax, as he has proposed, on the basis of the balance sheet, where all savings are taxed, is a classic mass tax for me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Riepl.]] If, on the other hand, they are designed as proposed by the Minister for Finance, namely, speculative elements, then it is not a mass tax, it is an instrument against speculation. This is the difference between the two parties. No shame. There are two different parties, we form a common government with different regulatory locations. This is not a shame, Mr Riepl, but I think it is open and honest to say that we have different positions there. We will get together, no question at all, but it is crucial that we have this cover, that we have these debt brakes, and that we thus put an end to that philosophy that has been going on for years, namely philosophy: A state cannot go into bankruptcy anyway. We can live permanently on debt. We can live at the expense of our children and grandchildren. [[Abg. Riepl: That the rich also pay something – that's so simple!]] – Debts are spent future, Mr Riepl. I don't know what to do with your calls. Do you want our children and grandchildren to pay back once what we do not pump in investment, but in part pump into consumption? As for the delicate social issue, I have to say honestly – I have already said this in the survey to the transfer account –: We have a social rate of 30 percent, one of the highest in Europe, and we are still fighting poverty. [[Abg. Riepl: Be glad!]] What does that mean? This means that the safety of the social system appears to be absent. Such a high social ratio and still the fight against poverty, something cannot be true. Mr Riepl, I invite you, you are a trade unionist: Let's think together: How can we bring this dual objective, namely, the right to benefit and social justice, to a standstill? – I always say the order must be: first performance justice. I can only distribute what I first worked out. This is an old principle which an old trade unionist, Mr Benya, has always preached here. First, you have to work something out, and then you can distribute it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13123	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13145	Mr President. My colleagues on the government bank! High house! We have today in the Early discussions on the issues and challenges of crisis management were very extensive, then also the acute and necessary measures for Greece and the stabilisation of our single currency, the euro. And it is now a debate in progress, which, of course, I understand in the light of the intense debate in the morning, but with the Federal Financial Framework Act, which we intend to adopt today, is still a topic in discussion, which represents a very big throw for the financial administration and for politics in Austria, when we introduce a first step in this proposal for the first time by 2014 to introduce a debt brake, a cover in all the departments in Austria. Unfortunately, the BZÖ's spokesperson is no longer here, he said we should be active and ask why we do not talk about saving. – We have never, with no budget planning, legitimised such a perspective in no consolidation year in recent years and decades. We shall revert expenditure to the federal financial framework with today's legislative decision. Mr Kogler has said that we should not be imaginative about the lawn mower and take away every resort as much as 3.5 per cent. - Yeah, there I am. You can be passionate – and we will do that too – about it: Do you want to put even more emphasis on some and save less, but to put a focus on saving in other ministries? There are some, economic and financial political divisions that separate us from the view, but overall, this federal financial framework is an absolutely appropriate basis for the Republic, for us in autumn, Mr Kogler, to develop the 2011 budget on this basis and the budget accompanying laws that are important in addition to this federal financial framework, which we are dealing with in this House today – and I would like to stress this too. In autumn, we will probably have to link the biggest package of the last decades, with regard to the budget accompanying laws in question saving 60 percent on the expenditure side and covering 40 percent on the revenue side. This will be extremely demanding in the House, but today we are taking a very big and right step in the right direction. We will, of course, discuss with the federal states the question of administrative reform by autumn, the contribution of the federal states to improving efficiency in the context of the federal, regional and local authorities. We will do everything we can to enable the federal states to make their possible contribution to the recovery of our state finances. But what's being said here today I can't leave it that way. Mr Lugar has told me – very excitingly – that I need 5,000 years for implementation. – The basic types of Carinthia have been seen in the rescue of the Hypo Alpe-Adria – I have to mention it again – namely, how far that has led. [[Abg. Hagen: FPK!]] And he suggests to me that the Federal Government, the Minister of Finance, in particular I, be inactive. If the whole morning is before us, we would be much too quick to help for the euro, all this is not going on and why there are these activities, then I wonder what happened in the few hours between them. I really have to thank Andreas Schieder and Reinhold Lopatka. We have been and are on the road day and night, both in Austria in recent months in order to avoid the worst crises and to catch up on what was necessary, as well as at European level. I will return to the task force in Brussels on Friday, which will start its work on the new regulations, and we will not neglect that. On the contrary, with today's signal, with the federal financial framework, we are setting a very correct and important sign, in the sense of what is necessary, namely the cause of this crisis, a debt development in dimensions which we have not seen for a long time. This feeding ground: Debts, debt, debt!, this feeding ground for speculators and the risk of whole economies, whole countries and in the final effect also our common currency must be dried out, and the Federal Financial Framework Act shows the perspective. I would like to say something about this Federal Financial Framework Act: The more we can save ourselves on this basis by autumn – this is what it is about, and there must be the focus on – the less we need taxes and taxes for people. Saving more means less taxes! This is also a clear signal that we are launching with this federal financial framework – the first point: without revenue and taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, we have had very intense discussions with our ministerial colleagues over the last few weeks and months. Ministers are now invited, in their stronger self-responsibilities within the Federal Financial Framework, to think qualitatively about how this framework can be filled up accordingly and where the savings fund can be set up in the ministries themselves. Mr Kogler, I am working very hard to comply with the deadlines, but I say quite frankly that it is an extremely difficult undertaking because the amount of budget plus budget accompanying laws plus rehabilitation plus European tangents can be dealt with in a dimension such as never before. That's why I'm not going to call a day, but I'm going to make every effort to ensure that we discuss the 2011 budget intensively in the House this autumn and then lead to a decision. In this sense, I will work on it. I cannot promise you 100 percent – I am so honest – because we have great challenges. No one thought three or four weeks ago about what will happen in Brussels over the weekend and about how the euro is being threatened. We are not here yet at the end of the flag bar as far as the accompanying measures are concerned. So it's a lot to do, but we're going to be too three. I am very pleased that this federal financial framework law is now the basis and at all as a legislative matter. I would also like to mention Willi Molterer and all those who bear responsibility for it and thank them. This is an exemplary project in Europe. Many look at us, Olli Rehn and others take it as possible tangents also for the review and for their own budget targets in the countries. We will advertise that this Austrian concept from the Federal Financial Framework can also provide controlling and corresponding budget support more Europeanally. This also gives security in the euro area, far beyond Austria. In this sense, I invite you to give your consent to this Federal Financial Framework Act with the data, with the future perspectives.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13195	The next speaker was Mr Kunasek. 2 minutes are set as a voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13217	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Saving: yes; Budget consolidation: yes! But you will allow me, as a security politician, to take out certain parts and areas that give cause for concern. One of these areas is military affairs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this subject in detail several times in this House. However, I would like to refer once again to the current figures and therefore justify my concern. This Financial Framework Act provides that we save €80 million in the area of national defence for 2011, €129 million in 2012, €151 million in 2013 and €169.4 million in 2014. In total, it is €530 million in an area that – and there are now almost all political groups in this House – urgently needs money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must also experience that only in the area of the Federal Army, in which military national defence is to be saved by 2014 a thousand people. – This corresponds to 33 percent of the total savings in the Federal Republic of Germany. I would like to remind you of what has been said in the government programme, which has not been discussed for too long in this House, regarding what the Federal Government needs: It requires sufficient human resources, but also the organization and equipment, equipment and training that are needed for modern armies to meet the requirements of the 21st century. It is necessary for hundreds of years in order to ensure optimum protection for the soldiers employed. Mr Finanzminister, I believe that the talks with the Minister of State for Defence were very pleasant for you, because if you look at these savings of €530 million, you have to say quite openly that there is a disassembly of the federal army and the national defense! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a look at the strategy report also confirms this. As a challenge, the Federal Minister sees the protection of the sovereignty of Austria as a challenge for the protection of the constitutional union. Guidelines and assistance for elementary events, and as a challenge, solidarity in peacekeeping measures is considered by foreign missions. – I do not envy the General Staff who now has the task of setting up a savings programme by the end of June. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will have a Question Time with the Minister of Defence, who – as you don't need to be a great prophet – will come back here and say: It's all right, it's all right, it's going to be all right. – You know my position and the position of the FPÖ: It is not okay, it will not go out, and we have massive difficulties in continuing to comply with our orders in the field of national defence. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is time for us in Parliament to give a clear signal to strengthen national defence, and may therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we want the German army slogans to “help where others can no longer” and “security for our country” to continue to apply in the future, I ask you to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13305	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13462	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13484	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Yes, we are discussing the federal financial framework 2011 to 2014 within the framework of budgetary law. We are talking about a forward-looking budgetary law, which in other countries is certainly seeking to do the same with regard to quality. However, we are also discussing this budgetary law in economically turbulent times. No doubt it would not be really intelligent to make a linear continuation, even worse that it would be unintelligent cuts of the lawn mower method, whose concrete effects could mean particularly bad developments. That is why, I believe, it is important, Mr Kogler – he is not here right now – to refer once again to these variations of reduction and to this range of cuts which allow for precisely this flexibility which makes these times necessary. In complex systems – and budgetary law is now one such thing – one-dimensional thinking is not responsible. Economic growth, both in Austria and in important export countries for Austrian products, is little robust, and with it our budget and budget policy are gaining even more importance for the development of the economy. Therefore, a balanced mix of expenditure and revenue measures is a reasonable way of making a certain amount of flexibility possible. But, Mr President, I do not see him in the hall right now, of course, it is a challenge if you once again give the word already expressed several times that we have lived on our relations. Does it mean to “live over the conditions ” if the generation that built our state after the war today, if it is a person, is guaranteed at least €783 and with two persons 1 €175 pension? Is it “lived over our conditions” when people, regardless of their parents’ income, have been able to complete quality vocational training, school education or even studies and can thus undoubtedly contribute to higher value creation and prosperity in our Republic and will it continue to be? Is it “lived over our conditions” when all people have access to good quality health services? Is it “lived over our conditions ” when people, rather than just staying in unemployment, get skills and thus increase their chances? I say: No, that's not lived on the conditions, nor is it a head-in-sand-stitch, but it's exactly what all people need, what our children need and what our grandchildren or need, namely, a society of opportunity. This must not be a victim of the crisis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why cuts alone are not a solution. It is therefore necessary to make future revenue sustainable, social and fair, taking into account the 'polluter pays' principle. On this, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we will have to discuss it over the next few weeks and months. It is also a question of how revenue is designed. The recommendations of all Austrian experts include an indication that the measures need to be taken into account in terms of economic activity – although we do not yet know exactly how the economy will develop – that is: It is important to pay attention to growth and employment, but also to a social balance. What seems very important to me, Mr Federal Minister – now he is not here, but I assume that Mr Lopatka will extend it to him He has addressed the European tangents. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Letter carrier!]] It seems very important to me when we talk about our budget, including the European measures, because when investment is reduced everywhere: Where will the growth come from? This context therefore seems to me to be a very essential aspect, and I would like this to be discussed in Europe from this point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13532	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13554	Mr State Secretary! We welcome the announcements made by the Minister earlier that the budget is planned to be presented in a timely manner in autumn. I think that the demands and pressure of the Green Group have shown that movement has finally come in and is being done in a planned manner. The second area is well-recognisable, namely to have a budget for the next four years, which is intended to increase planning capacity. This is not least due to the fact that our former colleague Mag. Bruno Rossmann has worked very hard to create the new budgetary law, which is the basis for this Federal Financial Framework Act. – That too is gratifying. As a matter of fact, it is a much more difficult and more difficult debate, because we are convinced that with the current budgetary ceilings, which are set out among the various groups, the central tasks will not be solvable. The main tasks now come from the labour market, education, research, the environment and climate protection. To this end, my colleagues will continue to comment on the various chapters. Finally, the question is where to go with a wise budgetary policy. Mr State Secretary, we are convinced that this should be as innovative, modern, just and forward-looking as possible, but that is missing in this form. It is quite clear that the deficits need to be reduced, on the one hand by reducing expenditure. But the question is: How is that done, and where does it really make sense? – The other is, of course, the side of tax revenue, in order to be able to force economic growth accordingly. There are two specific questions, namely: When do we deal with budget consolidation quite specifically? and on the other hand: How is it done? With regard to the when you have heard the experience of the experts at the hearings: Both the green expert Mag. Rossmann as well as that of ÖVP, Professor Lehner, and that of SPÖ, Mag. Marterbauer, agreed that there must be a reserve of economic activity and that it must be adapted accordingly, if you see how the economy is developing. – The fact that budgets are adapted accordingly is also something that we are doing here in this form. The second central question, of course, is how. Mr State Secretary, throughout the strategy report, there is no mention of what concrete measures you will take in the structural reforms. The revenue is quite clear to us. Mr Silhavy said today, well, there are revenue structures, and there is a need to see how to do this. We invite you to: Take a closer look at the idea of an eco-social tax reform! This is something that is future-looking, because that means ultimately reducing labour costs, forcing economic growth and thus tax revenue and thus contributing to consolidation. Staying only with the thermal renovation is too little in this area. The Minister has today referred to the eco-social economic model in Europe which should not be put at risk. I do not know where he sees the eco-social situation; there may be social problems in some areas, but the eco-social situation is far and wide not to be seen. As we take the next step, we consider a necessary, forward-looking step that is long overdue. On expenditure: In future areas such as research, this is clearly the wrong way and the wrong signal, because the announcement of Chancellors and vice-channers to become the innovation leader in 2020 means that one is actually heavily invested to strengthen this area in order to create jobs. Now I say on the topic of Innovation Leader: To advance to the first three in this ranking by 2020 is not really ambitious anyway. I tend to prefer the ambitious, but even if you do, you will have a problem in perspective, even with the research rate. After all, it has been set up by 4 percent, and you have seen it all around for days – no, not only for days, we have been making it worse for months, for years, but for days – the problems at the universities, in the research institutions. It is perfectly clear that there must be a rethinking in this regard. We invite you to support this in this form today. The JOANNEUM RESEARCH says that we have a 3 percent growth, then expenditure on research and science will have to rise by around 6.9 percent. Accordingly, we want to see that adapted in this form. Now I have to apologise for a moment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13623	Mrs. Col., we will provide you with a copy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13638	That's very friendly! [[A first attempt to deliver from the Bureau to the speaker's desk fails because of this too much distance.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Mr. State Secretary can also turn on!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: If everyone helps a little bit!]] – Exactly, and precisely to that we invite you! You see, if everyone helps a little bit, then the right demands come in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We invite you to support the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a very dedicated request, adapted to the perspectiveal growth rates and specifically linked to your objective – with the request to support this in this form in the sense of the future of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13716	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13771	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13792	Ladies and gentlemen! This novel on federal budgetary law, which was unanimously adopted in Parliament, was then presented by many – in fact by all – as one of the real milestones of a new quality of budget policy, and that is it! On the one hand, this is a new quality of budget creation, and it also gives Parliament new rights and much more co-design opportunities. But I also say that some discussions lead me to the conclusion that some may only realize what this new budgetary law means in practice, not only here in Parliament, but also in one ministry or another. This new budgetary law, of course, means that over a long-term period – four years – we have introduced a reduction in expenditure, a limit on expenditure, and thus, in reality, have developed a form of debt brake, which is of particular importance at this time. I am firmly convinced that this model of Austrian budgetary law will make school in Brussels, less for the Eurobudget – the Eurobudget does not need it because it is an annual budget – but in the national budgets it will be an instrument for the Commission to step in and bring it as a good example of how to actually improve the quality of the budget policy. I would like to deal with two issues which seem particularly important to me, because there have obviously been contradictions on both issues. I would therefore like to be very aware of these questions. First: I am firmly convinced that debt is actually the poison, the creeping poison that makes us weaker in Austria and Europe in the future than we have been before. Debts, ladies and gentlemen, are the real brakes for growth and development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not just!]] As Mrs Silhavy asked the question, for example, to what extent it is fair to the generations now in retirement to hold this discussion, I ask the other way round: There are a number of young people sitting here in Parliament. Today, the situation in the Austrian state budget is such that we owe around 200 billion – not just the federal government, but all together. That is about 10 billion more than a year and a half ago, that is, 10 billion have been added by the crisis. 180 billion – 186 are exactly – were already there before. The fact is that we have to spend 10 billion euros this year only for interest rates. And now I'm asking you: Is it just that we do not have the scope that we all want for each other, for example in education policy or in labour market policy? In reality, debt weakens us. [[Abg. Schönpass: You were also Minister of Finance!]] – Yes, of course, that is why I say this with special conviction, Mrs Colleague, because I have always fought for it. And now I'm gonna say, During the time I was Minister of Finance, Austria has for the first time reduced the debt ratio to less than 60 percent. – So that it would have been said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not alone, but in a common effort. But what we need to see is: If we continue to do so, the share in the budget that we have to spend on interest rates is getting bigger and the room for movement for the necessary investments is getting smaller and smaller. And then who pays back the debts? The debts then pay back the young people who actually have nothing of the expenditure we are doing today. And that is, “live over our relationships. ” I have every understanding when debt is made, for example, for an investment. - That's something else. If you build a road, if you build a railway route, it will be used 30, 40, 50 years, then you will also use those who come after us. But if we now finance consumer expenditure from debt, which will then pay the closest, then this is socially unfair. That is my very deep conviction. To do this, we need to get through – including social democracy. Consider, for example, what the Danes – S & D Poul Nyrup Rasmussen – or the Swedish – Persson – did! They have rehabilitated expenditure on the one hand because they have said that the debt makes a country free. And do you know who recently claimed and said that? Not quite far away from you, Governor Novotny, who was once sitting here in the bank series. Novotny said debt makes countries free. If you don't believe it yet, see what's happening in Greece right now! Greece is no longer autonomous in the decisions, because Greece now has to go in this way. That is why we must go this way: priority expenditure on the one hand; I hope that almost everything is spent on the other. Why? – If we continue to increase the tax rate, we will lose competitiveness. These truths cannot be avoided in the long term either.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13854	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13877	Mr President. High house! Mr Molterer, it is the ÖVP that has been in the government for 25 years and is therefore also responsible for the current debt. At the beginning. And for the second: The Federal Financial Framework Act itself is a good instrument – here I am entirely with you – but do you know what I lack from this federal government? That you finally fill out this framework, because here you are producing and saying, in autumn, on 20. The Minister of Finance will give a great speech on October, and then Parliament will know how to vote, will be too little! If we want to have a tax volume of up to €12 billion by 2014 – that is what the ÖVP wants to implement together with the SPÖ – then I would like to be able to discuss it as a parliamentarian, because this is about taxes. This coalition in no way agrees on this. Is it the mass taxes that the ÖVP wants to force under the cover of ecology? Is it the tax on petrol, on energy? Or is it the rich tax that the SPÖ favors – in whatever form? If it is the foundation tax, it is the asset tax, the wealth increase tax – whatever? There is so far no overall concept of this government, and that is the very wound point that I have to blame on this government. The second is that the facts on which this Framework Act is based, and the corresponding Strategy Report, are not very up-to-date. That has already been pointed out. The data are from January 2010 and are therefore far from the Greek crisis. We know that other countries will follow. Or if you look at the figures in the strategy report and compare them with those of the EU Commission, you can see that there are very large differences, for example in the debt ratio: The EU Commission says 74 percent in 2010, the Finance Minister says 70.2 percent. According to the Commission, in 2011, it is 77 percent government debt ratio, and the Finance Minister says 72.6%. The budget deficit detto. That's where the EU Commission says 5.5 percent and the Finance Minister 4.7 percent. There are billions in between! So please also have the courage to be honest in this Federal Financial Framework Act and in the Strategy Report! - This is really what I'm doing here. In the case of tax increases – I have mentioned this briefly – one really suspects that you do not know what you want. You will not make a point landing in the autumn, but a break landing. The surprise will then be met by the voters, because you are consciously waiting for the three country elections in Burgenland, Styria and Vienna, and when they are over, you will carry out a cross-border cabinet of tax increases, and this is to be deeply rejected. Another point: If I remember correctly, the Minister of Finance said a few weeks ago that he would be without tax increases. From this speaker's desk he said that. And where are we now? There are still experts who believe that this would happen. Felder from the IHS says this, for example. Why don't you think about these alternatives? If you say that 40 percent is to be achieved through taxes, 60 percent through expenditure savings, then you do not know where they are to come from until now. They simply write – and this is what I put – x-any numbers into the Financial Framework Act. If you know the facts and the sources, then there is nothing to do with making them known. Then why don't you do it? You're really not on the right path here. To conclude: A new financial compensation will be indispensable, with and without taxes. We must not wait until 2013 until all the municipalities – I am Upper Austriaer; there are more than 300 municipalities of departure communities – are faced with the situation such as Greece, namely that they argue that they already have to consult the competent Council of State on the basis of an issue of €5,000, whether this is possible at all, which will ultimately only degradate the communities to accountants of that Republic. We must stop imposing on them obligations and expenses for which they are not responsible. Consider the many social expenditures or the health care contributions: For the countries they have been covered, but not for the communities, there they explode! 20, 30, 40 per cent per year are added, and no more money is left for the actual tasks of the communities. On behalf of the Deputy Minister for Finance: I always get swirling when I read it. As he writes – you know the listing all who have cost € 730 000 – he will reduce the debt. Yes, read the strategy report, Mr. Finanzminister – he is no longer here – and the opposite is true: Debts are increased by billions a year. - That's the point! Not only is the listing itself an incorrectness, it is also the content wrong, and that is the seriousness of this government party's ÖVP in the financial field, which I naturally question completely. What has already been said: Where are the priorities? Where are the orientations for the future? Where is what you yourself have called for in the Government Declaration? Where are the areas of education, renewable energy, care, science? The university really burns! Look for Salzburg, look at Klagenfurt! There's no money at all in the back and front, and you're gonna cut it off. This is ultimately fixed: They have issued a declaration of bankruptcy for this financial policy. One last word: Because I always hear the issue of EU, I remember that last week we had a great event here in this House: 15 years EU. There was an honest speaker, but it was not a Grand Coalitionary, it was the former Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, Klaus Kinkel. This one has rightly said that we need the EU, we need the euro area, but there is still much to do. He was also very self-critical, but he was the only politician who spoke here who saw it that way. I ask you, my dear colleagues from the ÖVP, take off your dark, black glasses, take off the SPÖ your dark red glasses and look at this truth, the truth of the EU, in the face to see what it is all about! The next handshake is already in progress. Apart from all these financial market surveillance criteria and regulations that we have discussed today, you know all Basel II. And Basel III is on the doorstep! What I expect from this Federal Government is that it is not once again the small and medium-sized enterprises that are gnawing, but finally liberating them, and all the more the more the speculators who are doing politics and business with our funds, at last knocking on their fingers and treating them accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13955	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e13978	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In this Federal Financial Framework Act, which is before us and which allows for a longer-term budget consolidation, which is also being worked on, it will of course be the art, Mr State Secretary, to increase expenditure more slowly than economic performance. We also discussed this in the budget hearing. In fact, it will be very important to see how the economy will develop in the future in these years. We have also heard in the budget hearing that, although an economic upturn is noticeable in Asia, it is not yet clear how far Europe and Austria are being contributed to this upturn. In other words, the consolidation, which is set out here – 40 percent on the part of the income side, 60 percent on the part of the expenditure side – is likely to have to be taken into account that there are no problems with employment and no problems with consumption in the event of savings, because employment and consumption also stimulate our economy accordingly. Much has already been said about debt today and that we have lived on our conditions. . I would just like to give my opinion on this. Rising debt is not the result of lax budgetary policy, but the consequences of the problems caused by a financial crisis. We have therefore taken a lot of money into our hands to solve these problems. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: 10 billion!]] - Wait, Mr Bartenstein, I have just said something about this. The Austrian tax rate – and this is not my knowledge, but it is also a knowledge from the hearing – is not an economic problem, has been said there, but – and now it comes – is an expression of the political decision for a good social system. If you want to do so, Mr Bartenstein, it is an investment for the security of people in Austria, if they get sick, if they do not have a job, or if they need a corresponding education, for our youth up there and for us, as we all sit here, for those who are just a little older. [[the speaker points towards the visitor gallery]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should really say that, even if I do not like to complement that, of course, we should look at everything. Of course, there are more and more things that are exploited – which is left out – but on the other hand, one must also be so fair, Mr Bartenstein, and see that the government budget is carried and fed by VAT and the wage tax, that is, by all of us, and it comes very little compared to the industry and the large industry. So distribution justice needs to be looked at very carefully in the future in this consolidation package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14038	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14059	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I would like to say about Mr Molterer's comments: The chapter with debt we can all sign, debt slows down development, but we had not had too long ago, in 2005, 2006, 2007, an excellent economic development in this country and have much more generated or taken than was planned. In return, however, nothing has been done about it, no reserve has been formed that we could use today, at this time when it would be necessary, in order not to get ourselves back into a debt trap now. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This has not happened, and it is very likely to make you blame. The strategy report is as follows: I am missing a little bit of the explanation of savings potential. This is also of great importance in a time like the present. We all know the chapter of the Constitutional Reform. 5 billion € would be saved here in the short term. It is nothing to be read in the Strategy Report. You finally have to start sitting here and doing it. It is about creating added value for our people, not for the banks of this country, but for our citizens. That's why it's okay, and it's completely missing in there. I would like to take a brief look at a chapter because my time is already over and we have a lot of speakers today. There is also a bit of potential in this country, and that is that of the tax residues or of the tax debts. Around €7 billion – this has resulted in a request from me – are tax delays, regardless of whether VAT or income tax. Here you can also put on one side, because those who work who receive a wage and who are deducted from the tax from the house are the fools, if others have to pay income tax, corporate tax or the like, which do not drop off or delay for so long, until this is perhaps no longer achievable. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There's something done here. And that's what I'm about to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14117	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14138	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start where we have ended up constructively in the Committee on Budgets, where we have had very constructive discussions with the experts and where we also agreed that we have created a very modern budgetary law with this instrument of the Federal Financial Framework Act and that Austria is once again a step ahead and is also a trendetter in the European Union. We have achieved a great deal with this, and if we can now talk about planning security until 2014 and have installed a corresponding debt brake, then this is a very crucial point. It has also strengthened the self-responsibilities of the ministries and the scope of the ministries, and we have also – Mr President-in-Office of the Council has already done so – more cooperation here in Parliament. But one thing has also been made quite clear today: that the debt burden, the debt we have in Austria, is, of course, a mortgage for the future. If the colleague Hagenhofer speaks of the financial economy, then we must leave the church in the village, because I think of the 200 billion euros of debt we have, 5 percent of the recession is due to recession, that is about 10 billion, the others have been built up train by train in the years. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: You were there too!]] That is why, I believe, it is right to save more and, of course, to implement reforms accordingly. The Federal Government has shown again in the last two years that it is acting strongly. We have experienced one of the biggest economic and financial challenges. We have a gross domestic product, which fell by 3.6 percent compared with the previous year, but we have taken the most serious priorities with rapid action and have, of course, halted the crisis for the economy and, of course, for the workers. These economic packages, which we decided last year, have paid off the labour market packages and, of course, the tax reform, because we are still better in Europe than other countries, we have kept the economy in swing, and we have thus also secured jobs. Of course, it is also undisputed that these additional expenditures have torn a large hole into the budget and that debt has increased further. We have heard it today, we are on a path that is more than 70 percent, and that is why we have to put it here. The Federal Financial Framework Act provides the clear will to consolidate the budget, and it is a clear trend to see that the deficit will be slowed down and that public budgets will be consolidated. For the first time in the history of the Republic, we have clearly defined the spending limits of our budget with this Federal Financial Framework Act. It is a first small step to make the debt backpack a little smaller for our children and grandchildren. The debt brake has been removed and, I have already mentioned it, we are also an example in the European Union. We have clearly defined our objectives, but we still have to bear in mind the findings: We have too high debt, too high a deficit – both have to be reduced – and we have rising expenditure that needs to be reduced. In recent times, however, there are almost only revenue-based proposals, how we can invent new taxes and how we can create new taxes. I think we should also use the same dynamic that exists in the tax debate in terms of expenditure-side savings potentials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is a very important point, because the more we save on expenditure, the less we have to put additional burdens on people in our country. That is why I firmly believe that we need a job reform for our world-famous quality of life, which we have in Austria and which we want to receive. We need structural reforms that make our social systems safe for the future so that we can continue to afford them, and we also need the growth impulses. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: Then do it at last! You're in government!]] In my opinion, “renew instead of tax ” should be our foreign exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14197	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14218	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear Seers! I think it is clear to all of us that savings are necessary in times of crisis. However, it is also necessary to invest in future areas. I am thinking, above all, of the environment, of environmental technologies, of renewable energy and of green jobs, which is mentioned by the ÖVP over and over again. They also say: We cannot live forever over our conditions! – That’s right, but especially in the environmental field, we do it all the time. I think it will now be very clear to us that our system is not so portable, we see the immense ecological damage that our energy industry has caused off the coast of Louisiana. [[Abg. Hörl: That's over there! That's in America, not with us!]] This is the environmental policy of the ÖVP: Everything that's far away from us doesn't matter to us. – This is our energy industry, to which we also contribute with our oil dependence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. May. Kogler.]] There are huge ecological damage, our system contributes to immense damage to the climate. In particular, this will also result in financial consequences, because the damage is billions of losses that arise here, which ultimately depend on the general public and not on the businesses they have caused. The same applies to the climate crisis. Again, if we do not invest in the environmental sector, penal payments are threatening us at billions. And what are you doing? – The environmental budget is greatly reduced. It is clear that if you have to save, you have to look at all the areas, but especially the environmental budget, which is one of the smallest at all, is massively affected, and is disproportionately saved there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] What is still being financed by this very small environmental budget? – The emissions trading, the purchase of certificates, the free purchase of our own climate commitments. I do not see at all why this free purchase has to be financed from the environmental budget, because there are the causes of our disastrous climate balance! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] The environmental budget is intended to finance measures that are going towards renewable energy, especially towards green jobs for young people – because those you mentioned earlier – and to finance measures that finally turn Austria back into an environmental model country, because unfortunately we are not long ago. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hörl: Yes, we are in the bureaucracy!]] When it comes to saving and budgeting, the environmental tax reform has been repeatedly discussed. It's a little wonder to me now, because from our point of view it's clear: Ecologisation of the tax system is urgently necessary for environmental reasons, for climate protection reasons. When we called for this very massively before the Copenhagen climate conference, you, the Federal Government, especially the EIA, had no interest in really addressing it. Now that the budget is going to stop, this will come back to the agenda at once. There you can see what your interest in ecologizing the tax system is, namely, budget hole stoppages and not ecologisation. [[Abg. Hörl: Do you want it or not?]] This project is too bad for this. We need an ecologisation of the tax system, but it must be socially balanced! There's a danger that if you're dealing with it as you are, you'll make environmental taxes without offering people an ecobonus. [[Abg. Hörl: We don't know that yet!]] Look at our concepts, it's all inside! We have provided you with our concepts: Environment, energy, relief from work, and also give people an eco-bonus to actually behave environmentally friendly, as most would like. These are our concepts, we gave you that a long time ago. My question is: What about it now? What's going on? Is it what you're going to do or isn't it? In environmental policy, much more vehemently needs to be done, it needs to be strengthened, and that is why I still believe that Austria needs a strong, committed and independent Ministry of the Environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14375	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14397	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One thing always accompanies such discussions and debates: On the one hand, the debt is always placed on the speaker; on the other hand, every second speaker requires more money for each policy area. How does that work? – This has never worked. I think we should actually take the time to discuss these so important questions for the people of our home country, for our Republic in all seriousness. Of course, we were all in favour of this and have unanimously decided on the federal budget law. All you who have been there remember what has been told in advance of this decision-making process, in the process of lawmaking! Look at what was written in the review procedures, look at what the countries have said! Now, in retrospect, we see that it was right, but we knew that at the time, but let's remember what was discussed in advance! You forget the stories in part, but you just need to remember them. I would like to address two or three points. It's a shame that the Willi went out because in the nineties we two negotiated many consolidation stories for the public sector. Just what happened? – The Federation has made it. You know who didn't do it? - I don't think I need to talk anymore. That's how it goes like a red thread – so that no one is offended: black thread, whatever you want, you know what I mean by it. It's always the same knitting pattern. We had a debate here about a month ago on the occasion of a report on the Court of Auditors, and I was pleased because all speakers stressed how poor the communities are: For God's sake, they break together with the finances. - That's right! It was nice to hear that, it was just sad about the content. And then, by the way, the President of the Court of Auditors is completely right and says: One point is that the municipalities are being financially ruined, which is the financing of hospitals. Everyone knows, and we're building hospitals, whether we need them or not, loosed from the site discussion. I also believe that, in times like this, a proper budget must be consolidated, no question at all, but one must also see where to make investments. We need to invest – I don't need to repeat everything now – in education started, in all these areas, up to the universities. But unnecessarily spending money for something no one needs, and everyone watch, that can't be it! This is also an important central question, with all the understanding of federalism. I say this clearly because we suffer together or our citizens. That must also be clear to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this federal government is very well positioned and that we have taken perfectly proper legislative decisions in recent weeks and months. We could not choose this situation that has arisen here. I say quite openly, today you look at Austria and say: If only we would have these conditions that Austria has! – This does not solve the problem that the individual citizen or the citizen may feel. But we are all called upon to provide a budget for the future at all levels of the local authorities, including in the interests of fairness, social balance, that takes account of the children and does not neglect making the necessary investments. Let me conclude by saying the following: I think we're going to do everything that doesn't happen on the back of our citizens, but I'm also inviting: At the time, in the House, we adopted a unanimous resolution on the police reform, in which we said that we also need a government reform. There you can decide and implement many such points, all of which are efficiency-enhancing, and I think the time is ripe to increase efficiency. I would like to invite you all to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14482	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14503	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Pendl seems to have forgotten who is ruling because he has just called for an official reform in the field, but apparently has forgotten that SPÖ is in the government. [[Abg. Pendl: But I didn't forget who put us in a lot!]] So much for it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are speaking today about this strategic report on the Federal Financial Framework Act, I would like to take a little closer look at the area of internal affairs which has now been addressed by my previous speaker. I've looked through the report and it's under "challenges": ‘Security tasks: Lifting the objective and subjective sense of security of the population despite continued latent potential for danger.” – Wow, super, horny, I really have to say that. In the case of ‘targets’ under the heading ‘security tasks’, among other things, ‘enhanced international cooperation’. – I can fully sign that. A very important point, but it doesn't work yet, we know. That's how long it's going to be wide. ==References== Point ‘priorities and priorities’ is read: ‘Keeping a high quality standard in equipment, criminal technology (e.g. B. DNA analyses)” and so on. It hit me a little after I got a press report from the Ministry of the Interior of 21st century. April 2010, which reads: by 2014 savings mainly in the amount of property and personnel costs of € 50 million. Now I have to say: Each citizen has a right to security and the State grants him this security and protection. Over the past few months, we have discussed a lot of burglary, crime increase and so on, and then I have read that we want to save on matters. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior, which is 30 percent, is € 740 million. And I'm surprised when I hear the Ministry of the Interior saves me. I've heard from a criminal department in a federal state in Austria – I don't want to go closer to it, otherwise my colleagues will have problems – that you didn't get a cell phone cable via five ways – it was about a arrested burglar band that had mobile phones on which relevant numbers and various information were stored – which was needed to transfer the data to the computer. The executive forces then had to call the mobile company in Sweden and have then been provided from there with this cable, effort: 14 €. We don't have any money for that. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something going very wrong. [[BZÖ and Abg. Mayerhofer.]] I would like to address another area. Save, all right, but if I save on the construction measures at the ÖBB, many jobs are particularly at risk from small businesses operating in this area. I know the construction industry is already suffering so much, but the effective savings measures are still coming. Where infrastructure should actually be expanded, the savings fund will now be set up – at the expense of jobs, at the expense of the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and the service providers. This place is saved at the wrong spot. Save She is better – Mr Lopatka has already done it, and it is an old demand from us – you can save on the ÖBB-pensionists who retire at 53, 51 or even earlier! Here would be a potential for saving, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now I have another area, Mr State Secretary, which you may also be able to take with you. Klubobmann's head of the ÖVP has already mentioned it: 30 percent of the budget goes up for social benefits. Forgo social abuse here! I will now give you two examples from Vorarlberg. This is still a sacred cow, you must not address it. I was told by officials of a certain authority that every Romanian citizen driving the car goes to the authority and says he doesn't come home anymore, he can't afford the tank anymore, he needs 100 €. Two days later, he was in the next County Headquarters and went through the same shame there. That's how it works every day! Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it is! Here money is wasted to people who do not even have a real residence in Austria. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Another example: A Turkish family travels to Turkey for three months on vacation, but receives the apartment paid by the Social Office. She claims she can't afford the food anymore. Who pays it? – The social office pays for it, the bra lays the money. That's an insanity, so it can't go on, ladies and gentlemen. There would be savings potential here. The Minister of Finance has raised it a great deal, and the supply of debt is what we used to do – we have lived on our conditions, it is always said. I can't remember living over my circumstances, and I know a lot of people who didn't live over their circumstances. That's where you've got to knock on your bobs. Unfortunately, he's not here anymore, but I'd like to give it to him anyway. When I consider that under a Minister of Finance Pröll we have the highest deficit we have ever had in Austria, this is a courageous statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14564	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14585	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, that was pure populism! [[call to the FPÖ.]] If you say we're living on our conditions, I'd like to make it clear to you: If we spend more than we take, we live on our relationships. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: You spent more!]] I am, in general, d’accord with the fact that various measures that have been taken were necessary and important, that is no question at all. But if you see that in total, you have to say, if you spend more than you take, then you live over your conditions. You can't do that, and we can't do that from Parliament either. [[Abg. Hagen: I built a house, that belongs to me!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps one more word to Mr Zanger, but he's not here now. He asked: What happened to the money in the good times? – I would like to say one thing: In 2000, Austria had a GDP debt of 65 percent, in 2007, when we were a Molterer Minister of Finance, we were 59 percent, so we have already used the time in and for ourselves and we have achieved a very different starting position for this difficult time now. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As this was addressed: To take the feeding ground for speculators means to put national budgets in order. That's what you meant, Mr President, earlier on, and that's exactly what it is. This is a very true statement that has been made here. But before we point to other countries, of course we have to try and see that we are putting our own budget in order accordingly. That is exactly what is now being done with this Federal Financial Framework Act. I believe – and this has already been mentioned – that if we want to invest in education and research, if we want to maintain our prosperity, we must try to achieve economic growth. Without economic growth, it will not be possible to implement these measures. Debts take the room for business and investment, and – that has already been mentioned – they also take the future of youth. It is therefore important that we now look primarily at expenditure, where we can take action and make savings. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] As security has also been addressed: We will do everything we can to ensure that people's safety continues outside, and I believe that we are in a very good way, especially in the field of security. We only need to look at the current criminal statistics. [[Abg. Windwood: No one knows!]] – Commissioner Windholz, you are far away from where you should be. I'm still in the middle of it, I'm still on duty – you probably are not anymore. That's the problem with you. So it's called intelligent savings on the one hand, and of course we're going to look at the banking tax and the financial transaction tax – it's already been addressed. I believe that if we jointly recognize the situation, together, including the opposition, then we are in the best way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14670	Mrs. Dr. Winter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14691	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Bucher started quite popular today in the morning and meant that, after the autumn elections, the population would probably suffer because of the enormous tax increases. I think that this statement is, unfortunately, absolutely right in God's eyes, which is also in some way reflected in the Federal Financial Framework Act, yet the real political will to save is not recognizable. It is more likely that the weight will be on the increase in tax revenue. This is certainly the absolutely wrong focus, an absolutely wrong focus. They save on education, research, development and above all on family and youth. If you look at the Youth and Family resort, the next few years will save between €234 million and €484 million in this area. These are so huge social cuts that you can only ask yourself: How are our families to cope with this, and where there are certainly tax increases? A second important chapter is the field of science. We know that universities need money. The money is missing for a proper organization. It is only here that Minister Karl is no more successful, as Minister Hahn has been, because she is wasting tax money to a great extent and is misappropriating it above all. There was or still there is a “university dialogue” from which both the students and the rectors have already left – and she still praises him as a great thing in “Vienna today”, knowing that this is absolutely wrong. A second thing in this context: On the basis of a request from Mrs Minister, we found out that there was a conference in Budapest and Vienna in March for the Bologna process, for which only €438 000 were spent. I think this shows that there is absolutely no severance in the policy of saving and that the resources that are available are being used completely incorrectly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14727	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14749	Ladies and gentlemen! Just a few words in this heated mood. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Wrong speech! Two hours too late!]] I think it makes sense that we have introduced a new budgetary mechanism here and that the individual ministries now have much more competence to plan in the long term. However, it must not be forgotten that there are other possibilities, of course, to deal responsibly with the tax money. In the field of justice, we have seen that, for more than four years, an §-278a procedure in Wiener Neustadt has been tried with a disproportionate effort, from my point of view, to transfer animal protectors to a criminal act, even with the use of a “criminal organisation” paragraph. On the other hand, we have at last had a shocking experience in the area of organised crime, trafficking in human beings, prostitution. And I think that if we had done so with the same energy in the area of real organized crime, the traffickers, then we might have been able to save ourselves, then much of the suffering that is still happening would simply not be possible anymore. Therefore, I also believe that we must set priorities here, set priorities, and consider exactly how the available funds can really be used as far as possible. Just what is happening in Wiener Neustadt, including this ORF process, this absurd story, which has been launched there, with the “Ed”, where Colle Strache has been noticed several times by strange performances, one has to say that this is actually a complete waste of tax resources. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I believe that there is a real need to think about what opportunities there are to make improvements. Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the group complaints because “Capital Market” is currently one of the keywords and we see every day how many thousands of people there are in different areas. It would be easy to enforce an improvement by increasing the possibilities of the reactions of the parties themselves through group complaints, which, of course, would also have a deterrent effect on those who use these structures to commit criminal acts. That is to say, there would be a lot to do, which would not cost much and bring about an improvement, much where it is only a useful use of resources. This is an invitation to every single ministry, of course also to the Ministry of Justice, to really consider whether it is impossible to achieve an increase in efficiency that has been washed through simple measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14804	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14826	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary, you may be able to interrupt your reading briefly. I have a special suggestion for you, too. After all, it is about creating a truly intelligent balance between meaningful savings and sustainable investment. You always read in the newspaper that you are massively opposed to the early retirement of ÖBB employees. [[Abg. Amon: Yes, we are too!]] – Yes, I am for that too! Only, the problem is: Then how should the ÖBB at the same time set the targets, says: Do you want to reduce the staff effort you require in the same breath? [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: No new positions at the same time!]] I'm for honesty. I'm for openness. I want intelligent... – Yes, no new settings. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: No new posts!]] The problem is only that the new settings are made because the other service law applies there. And that brings... – This is the problem that we certainly need to discuss urgently – however, in such a way that acquired rights, adapted to the entire life planning, are not thrown over the pile. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Aha, now at once! So change the right to serve?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You really have to do this realistically. All right, let's just keep investing intelligently in this field, in the field of transport, ÖBB. You know very well – we have had discussions in the Court of Auditors, also in the Committee on Budgets, in the Financial Committee – that we will face budgetary burdens at billions in the future. There is always a great deal to be said about this by press conferences: Investment package, infrastructure – 20 billion will be loose. Yeah, and today we're talking about saving. Today we are talking about the need to invest intelligently. I haven't heard a reply to that. Mr State Secretary, please use the same energy that you are now calling on the ÖBB early retirements to finally make the appropriate corrections in the area of investment priorities. What we need is to eliminate the slow down. What we need is a certain acceleration on many commuting routes. What we need is definitely a service orientation, a customer orientation. I am afraid that especially in the transport sector there will be deleted where the customer orientation is concerned, and that the billions will unfortunately remain extra-budgetary as debt over ASFINAG for things that we do not need, namely for the forced expansion of travel routes, of motorways that are completely counterproductive. Imagine, as the Secretary of State for Finance: A motorway kilometer Westring Linz costs 100 million €! Take this money and finally eliminate the slow down! Take an ASFINAG dividend, save this investment Westring Linz! I can provide you with detailed traffic counts that prove that this construction measure will lead to an increase in traffic loads in different districts of Linz – and not to a reduction as always! That is why I always say: to invest intelligently! Decrease You can do these senseless projects in the area of motorway infrastructure! I can list them to you again: Lobau-Tunnel in Vienna, for example, or S 36/S 37 in Carinthia, or in Styria, some projects also in Burgenland, the continuation of the A 5. There are huge savings potential here, here you can make money flow into the budget via an ASFINAG dividend and thus cover the urgently needed investments also at the ÖBB. Think of something else when I say, save intelligently: Why don't we save on tax privileges? Why don't we delete tax privileges? Why do we not at last take seriously the fact that the foundations have to be taxed differently, that the large inheritances are to be taxed again, that capital increases are to be taxed that the manager salaries can no longer be counted as operating expenses? Let us see that, at last, the tax obstacles are being pushed in! Think of the discussion in the Court of Auditors, also with you, about all these revenue tax refunds, which took place only because of the lack of control by financial officials or the computer programme being poorly equipped! You finally have to do something. Or go before Parliament; I did it before and I spoke to an executive officer. Mr Pendl is no longer there, I could give him an example. I spoke to these officials, and he told me that we need 2 000 more officials in Vienna. There are partly only three more washrooms occupied! There we need more staff, elsewhere we need to save ourselves in order to be able to afford this security aspect. Finally, another Bonmot. My bike was stolen. I showed this to the police. What do you think about how much time the officials, a fully trained civil servant in uniform, then spent with the PC program of the Ministry of the Interior, that there is for the display of a bicycle theft? What do you think? - 30 minutes! 30 minutes! I mean, that's crazy. [[Abg. Großruck: Because the bike had such a large special equipment!]] I looked at the program. [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: You will have confused him!]] – No, not at all! On the contrary, I have always helped him! [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Well, that was it! That was the problem!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I helped him through the individual masks and menu sequences of the interior resort. You have to imagine how complicated this program is “Meldering a Bicycle Theft ”! He must cross a hundred castles! There's a way to simply put in place savings measures. There is something you should do at last so that people can be relieved and do meaningful work. Thank you for the opportunity to give you this example. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Yes, please!]] I hope it's clear enough that you're finally putting on the spasm there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e14988	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15010	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! I am not the first and will not be the last to make the statement on this day: There's no way past the savings anymore. The necessary consolidations will all take place, all members of the government will meet, all sub-divisions will be made. Nevertheless, it will be necessary to take a little focus on: Priority areas such as education, such as science and research, the labour market, but also internal security. The need for these priorities to be set in times of saving is necessary. It is about the future, it is about international competitiveness, but it is also about growth, and not least about internal security, which must continue to be guaranteed in the future. Consolidation measures must also be primarily driven by savings. We need to look very closely at the expenditures that are absolutely necessary, where there is potential to achieve sustainable consolidation and stabilisation. We in Parliament, all of us in this House, have an essential responsibility, whether it be a government group, or opposition. It is also important to boost economic growth and preserve the purchasing power of citizens. This will create a basic requirement, namely that of the increased tax revenue, a tax revenue that does not affect citizens in any way. And only as the last consequence, as Ultima Ratio, can we and will think about new forms of income, of state income. In the past, as has been said, the potential for savings must be strongly lost. Every euro we save reduces the need for new taxes. The fact that saving is on the program is clear to everyone. There's no way past the savings course. He's, like you say, alternatively. The fates like that of Greece, perhaps Portugal, Spain should also be a warning example to us this day, including for populists in this House. We must no longer live on our relations; some have said that today. The debt brake is activated until 2014, and it will accompany us and help us to achieve this goal of not living through our conditions. But the fact that one can also save to death makes us very clear an example that has been brought to our attention in the Styria today: the dramatic development around the open-air museum in Stübing. This museum is threatened by destruction, I would like to say, because the competent minister simply and grippingly declared himself uncompetent and rather fluffy, it does not act at the open-air museum in Stübing around a federal museum. This museum was founded in 1962 by the Ministry of Education. That makes it clear where that belongs. Last year, the Minister of Culture was allowed to look forward to more than €50 million in the cultural budget. 1 per cent of these would be sufficient to ensure this so valuable and so important open-air museum for the region and to place it on stable legs. It's not about millions, it's about €300 000. That the current head of state Franz Voves does not make himself particularly strong for Styrian interests in the Ministry of Education, we have also had to experience painfully in the school development plan. The Styria has lost millions of economic measures. It was therefore my concern to raise a particularly urgent concern here today as part of my speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15068	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15089	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear listeners at the gallery! Today we debate the Federal Financial Framework Act for the years 2011 to 2014. As Mr von der SPÖ, Financial Spokesman Krainer, said, it is presented with the financial framework, and the individual Federal Ministers then have time to allocate the budget to spring, to create the structures to meet the savings targets in their field. Now the one or the other speaker comes out and says: For God's sake, in these and those areas we do not want savings! - That's not how it's going to be. That's the one side. In fact – it is so much youth today at the gallery – the whole of the citizens will pay. [[Abg. Oillingers: The citizens too!]] The citizen will pay the whole because, on the one hand, expenditure will be saved and, on the other hand, the revenue for which the Minister of Finance is responsible is estimated at €12 billion, with no one yet knowing how the revenue will be achieved. The whole strategy report does not show what the countries and communities will do. That's not mentioned. Different taxes are co-imported. I also say that those who have tax privileges, bank managers with their credits and so on, belong to tax, no question, because: The money is a Vogerl that flies from one to the other. The money's not gone, it's just another one. And there you have to get it back from those who have it now. That would be the right way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are also double-tracks in the transfers of federal, state, local and other institutions. All of this should be brought together once. Then you have an overview there. That's what I've done. Mass taxes are also addressed. The mass must not be taxed – on the other hand, it comes out most. We have been talking about an increase in the tax on mineral oil. A mineral oil tax increase now means with a weakening euro – the crude oil price is paid in US dollars – that there is a double increase, and that means that the counterparts are increasingly asked to cash. - So a mass tax. No one knows how far the spray price rises. Inflation does another thing. In order to cover higher inflation, the citizen also pays. Where else do you want to save? In the labour market? In the event of rising unemployment, which we are experiencing, this is a mystery to me. This strategy report, which, by the way, only presents the forecasts of an institute – there are several; one could compare in which direction more is possible – is bound by coffee study or light-seeing for me. No one knows where the journey is going in the future. As regards administrative reform, the state reform, which has been called for for for years, for which a Commission has also been set up, which has drawn up proposals, goes nothing further. I can already imagine that red and black do not want to act in this area at all because they have to amputate themselves because they are part of this system. That's the problem we have. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The comparison of public debt is mentioned in the strategy report, but I simply miss the courage to the truth. I believe that the whole thing will now be moved to the next spring, because there will be regional elections in Styria and Vienna until then, so that the voters will not be scared, either stay away from the elections at all or not vote red and black. That's it. One more thing, Mr Lopatka State Secretary: They have sued a lot of people at pension privileges. I'm perfectly right, but if you're a privileged person yourself, it's not that good. If you, like yourself, have a political pension from your time in the Steermärkian Government, then that doesn't look so good, Mr State Secretary. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka.]] In any case, there are newspaper reports, Mr. State Secretary, whom I take from the fact that this is the case. You can correct it, but for now, that's the way it is. [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: I did that!]] [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: I did that! I made a broadcast at 8 o'clock! Read it!]] - I haven't seen that yet. Okay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr State Secretary, I would also like to address the morale of payment, not to the small entrepreneurs, who often have their residues in finance and social security, but to the general entrepreneurs, who often do not pay the subcontractors for up to a year. Subcontractors are often driven into bankruptcy because they do not receive money and cannot pay their taxes. That should be regulated once. The strategy report for the Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 is very inaccurate. Where the journey is going in the future remains open!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15182	Mrs Csörgits is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15203	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, At the outset, I should like to point out that, in times like this, every measure aimed at creating and securing jobs and at remotivating and re-qualifying people into employment is a good, right and important measure. To ensure that people are in employment and have an income that they can get through with is the best and most useful measure, because then taxes and taxes are also paid and thus a little back into the state funds and social security funds. Therefore, I welcome the objectives set out in the strategy report under "UG 20 Work", which aim, among other things, to promote employment growth, to promote phases of unemployment in which people are qualified, which benefits the unemployed, but also our businesses, and that, in particular, very important measures are put in place to ensure that young people have easier access to the profession and, accordingly, better career opportunities and career careers. What is also very important is the fact that this chapter also ensures that there is economic security for unemployed people in Austria and will continue to exist, ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that the Austrian Federal Government, under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Faymann, has so far not acted, but quite the contrary. I can see the opportunity to remind ourselves together again that we have decided here in the House two economic packages and a tax reform. Most important in this context were also the packages designed for labour market policies. As a result, in Austria 100 000 jobs have been secured or re-created. If we had not put in place these measures, ladies and gentlemen, Austria would not be as good as it is at present. But that does not mean to me that we must not continue to do everything we can to combat unemployment. Yes, of course, these measures have cost a lot of money. There was a lot of money in hand, but it always depends on what you spend money for. I can tell you that corresponding social benefits in connection with the impact of the crisis have significantly engendered the crisis in Austria. Not only do we see that, but the OECD also sees it that way. You can get this to the point: Each euro invested in social transfers has a two-and-a-half effect. In other words, money in the economy Programmes, unemployment benefit, social assistance, family benefits, pensions, contribute significantly to the financing and balance of the budget of the Republic of Austria that people can easily afford something and thus strengthen their consumption. I believe that it must be clear that the social state has made a significant contribution to this crisis. For me, therefore, it is not a question of limiting social security, but it is important for social security to be improved exactly in times like this one and not to be questioned. This social state contributes to the fact that people are not given up to poverty, that, due to the transfer services, even those people who are not as good as many of us who sit here can still afford something. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, In times like this, social security and further improvement are needed! The social state must not be questioned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15254	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15276	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would now like to devote a little to the planned resources for infrastructure, transport and research. Remember, about a year ago we decided on a great economic recovery package. We wanted to secure jobs, pump funds into the economy. – Good intention, very best intention, but now the countermove begins to roll. According to this strategy report, “UG 41 Transport, Innovation and Technology”, there are general statements such as “Moving from Transport Road to Rail and Water”. - Well, that's not bad for itself. But in detail, under “priorities and priorities” is: ‘Implementation of multi-annual investment programmes for rail (...) and road (...) with a focus on the rail infrastructure offensive within the framework of existing funds’. The figures are constantly going downhill, and it means – and this is particularly sad – that: ‘In the case of ÖBB and Asfinag, it is necessary to reduce the project-specific construction costs.’ What, please, does that mean? – Either the construction costs have been too high so far, and then you have to ask: What has the Minister of Finance, what has the Minister responsible done up to now?, or it is now being shortened. For example, if a board of finance in a company simply says that the projects are already important, but the funds are cut down, it must nevertheless go out, then this board of finance usually does not survive for a very long time in this company. What can be, however, is the following scenario: that you listen a little bit to the companies that offer in the field of ÖBB and ASFINAG, because there are rumours that the budgets for sub-contractors then, when the general contractor is A, are a little higher than for those whose general business name is B. Mr Finanzminister and also the ministers responsible, take care of what is happening under the theme of “Compliance and Schmier”. I don't think it's very fine in this area. It would be better to approach the project systematically and then delete some points if projects were not useful, such as in the area of the Brenner base tunnel or in the ÖBB project of the 110 kV line. For this very reason, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you win time there, it's just good and right. Anything else would be stupid. Let us come to the second area of responsibility of Federal Minister Bures, the research part, which is located not only in her, but also in the Ministry of Science. Of course, there must also be saved. Mrs Bures is obviously able to secure her resources, but this is not the case in the scientific field. What does Mrs. Karl or the Minister of Finance do for her? – The companies are supposed to sponsor science! That's nice, we've been waiting for it all the time. The whole thing is still supported by friendly ads: The university dialogue will take place. – Dialogue may take place in the ministry. There's no one there anymore. Who else is there? The rectors are outside, the high schooling is also out, and somewhere private funds, i.e. company funds, will be a little difficult. The whole thing is significant if the head of the rector's head is still executed by the Minister: The government stands with its back to the future! – That, I believe, is not quite correct, because between the future and the government is still a wall. The government may stand with its back on the wall and should do something so that it does not go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15352	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15431	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15453	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. Times of crisis, times in which it is somewhat more difficult, are also times of the prophets, the right and the wrong prophets. It's painted black and white, one's being betrayed, the other's praised – whoever's going to be right at the end, ladies and gentlemen, that's going to turn out to be true. This will show the future. I would like to give you two examples of what I mean, which may not be right. Firstly, to defuse the large industry as it has been done because it does not pay taxes because it transfers. – I am not a representative of the industry, I am an employee, and I am thinking about what this large industry is doing in jobs, which ensures jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Even the little ones!]] – The small companies, too, but the large industry has been overturned. I have to say that you should be fair and also take into account what services are provided here. Let us be glad that we have large industry in Austria, we are glad that we have an industry that also employs many small and medium-sized enterprises as suppliers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As mayor, I am glad that in my hometown there is, for example, the company Pöttinger, which has contributed to the flourishing of my home town Grieskirchen about the municipal tax, over 1,000 employees who own this company. We also have other companies that contribute to this, such as the company Fröling with 800 people, the company Gföllner, a global player. I am glad about it, and I would never have come to blame their bosses, the industrialist. Whether they're paying taxes or not, I've been completely squandered. It was important that they employ people that they comply with their tax obligations they have. But whether they were too slow or too little now was not a topic. So you should leave the church in the village, ladies and gentlemen! It's the same with the debts. The debt will be defamed, the saving will be defyed, depending on the view. If you make investments, you need capital, and if you take up capital, that means in financial terms or in fiscal terms: These are debts. But without debt, there wouldn't be a lot of investment. No housekeeper could afford his house, he wouldn't make debt. It only depends on what debt is made for what money is needed. If you need money to finance the ongoing operation, and that's why you're making debt, that's wrong. But if you take up money to invest in the future, and pay it back over time, then that's right. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is this the case with us?]] So you should leave the church in the village. Now I come to the opposition, especially to the liberals and to the BZÖ. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, when you were in government! Today everything is bad, today everything is done wrong. [[Abg. Weinzinger: You didn't listen to our budget speaker! We didn't say that at all!]] – You had to take responsibility at the time, and your people have given you an apocalypse in Knittelfeld, because you have permanently said: [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] We're against it, we're doing a lot better! Then you took responsibility, and then you had to rule normally. Then you have had responsibility and have had to show that not only populism rules. [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] At the moment – and this is the case of the opposition – you have logical demands, logically populist demands are there. But if you have a responsibility, like the government, then things look different. And that's why you also have to leave the church in the village, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is the privilege of the opposition to make claims. Whoever is right at the end of the day, I told you earlier, this will show the future. I am not envying the government in view of this situation we are now in. I believe, and I am convinced that both the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the entire government will show responsibility and ensure that we get out of this crisis properly. We have good conditions. I mean, we should help them instead of insecure the people and paint the devil on the wall, just like some do. Optimizism is recommended and not pessimism. We as the Austrian People's Party stand for optimism. We trust that our leaders will pull the car out of this shit that others have brought us into. This is our access, and we are working on it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why it is also necessary – I welcome it; perhaps it is done unanimously – to adopt this Federal Financial Framework Act, which provides ministries with what and how they have to invest in the next four years, how much money they have at their disposal, what they can do with it. I think it is good to be able to plan in the medium term, unless a budget is set from year to year, but if you know that the funds are available for four years. Then you can save intelligently, don't have to cut anywhere. You can also save where, for example, there are overboards. We all know this, we know about the communities where to save everywhere. The mayors did the same. There are possibilities to save in each administrative unit. This is a command of the hour and not to somehow populist paint the devil on the wall now, there are the good and there the bad, vice versa. We should all work to get out of this crisis. We're a participant, but we're very affected. I come to the end – the light is not yet lit, Madam President, how much time would I have had?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15553	The time was set, Mr Deputies. We need to control the clock. It would have been 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15568	4 minutes – that's why I quit. A four-liner at the end, ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, my colleague, I hope he's good. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Hopefully a good one!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: But once again: Your budget speaker has said that we are making debts for consumption and not for investment!]] - Okay, we'll talk about that later, colleague Weinzinger. As Troja once destroyed by the Odysseus wooden horse, so also the Greeks today’s with tricks of Europe have beautifully faded. Thank you, dear Greeks!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15633	Let's see if the clock works again. A real correction, Mr Grosz. You know the rules. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15660	Madam President. High house! Mr Grossruck has just said in his speech that the BZÖ's friends had experienced an apocalypse in Knittelfeld in 2002. [[Abg. May. Stefan: The BZÖ has no friends!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: But that was an apocalypse!]] I'm actually correcting: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== That is to say, the friends of the BZÖ were unable to experience “apocalypse” in 2002 – and I can ask Mr Grossruck to turn to the Austrian Freedom Party on similar issues. [[Abg. Grill: You were there!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15727	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15748	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Dear visitors! They may give me the right that education and research should have something to do with truth. Let us now look at what politics has to do with truth! At the latest since Chancellor Schüssel, education and research have always been a central election topic in national elections. If you look at the reality of what has become of these priority confessions, you can see that there is little in recent years, and today there is nothing more. It was announced that education and research were, in turn, priorities, the chance for the future of Austria, and it was said that we were saving a little less. Today, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance are talking about the ceiling everywhere. Everywhere! I wonder, How can you focus on any existing ceiling and apply strategies? You can't! That means, in the election campaign was played, and the government never made any serious out of the game. If one hears now that not only the budgets for education and universities are falling, but Mrs. Federal Minister Karl Universitäten asked or even asked to make reserves, then I must say: That's what hits the barrel! I've got less money, and I'm supposed to make deposits of it?- Oh, my God! – That's saving twice! [[Abg. Kickl: This is what one requires of Greece!]] In the dialogue, plans are taken, one speculates, one is discussed, and the scope for action of the university's much-priced autonomy becomes so narrow that there are no priorities and no strategies to be developed that do not harm young people, students and the research location of Austria. I find this rather embarrassing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today there was a solemn meeting of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, and it was very exciting. But it was funny when Mrs. Federal Minister Karl ordered the Austrian Academy of Sciences to create a sustainable strategy for her research. I wonder, How can a federal government recommend a person to create strategies that they themselves do not have? She doesn't have a research strategy! There's no one. You're developing one. What bothers me most, and also people with whom I have talked today, is that, contrary to all the arguments, they are so reasonable, and all the studies that point out that education and research should be excluded from the consolidation package – not because all researchers are so great and completely different and the university does not deserve to pay for pensioners and the others, but because it promises return for the future especially in times of crisis. No, no, no, They're just saying no. You don't need any new studies, you don't need new arguments, you mean stubbornness is enough. But when the stubbornness mates with the motto of acting bar every reason, not seeing these signals, I wonder: What, then, has the Federal Government preached in recent years, or others? I wonder if the government can afford to keep many young students, curious people away from the university, because only then can a high-quality teaching be offered. That means you can only offer students something good if, for example, you halve their number. Is this a good research and education strategy?- Oh, my God! I think it's a perpetuated deception maneuver, and I recommend again – I'm not the first, we said it half a year ago –: It needs an economic package of education and research! Even Dr. Maria Schaumayer said today at the Academy of Sciences: These budgets must rise more, they must not be suspended, this budget must not be reduced at all. But you don't listen to anything, you're just stubborn and bar every reason. Unfortunately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15801	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15824	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today we have heard very different positions on the federal financial framework. What you heard so much is that always the other debt is that too much money is spent. From one side we heard that, in principle, Kreisky was guilty with the debt policy of the 1970s. With truly deep-seated ants, we have heard that these debts are still to be settled today. I remember the times of a zero deficit of a Mr Finanzminister. What did he say? This has duly reduced the deficit of the budget, but with the sale of all the things that Austria eventually possessed. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Kassasturz!]] I wonder what's smarter and what's less smart. We have heard a great deal today about what we have said in the SPÖ clause of the WIFO colleague. [[Abg. Kickl: The main thing the union pays!]] Mr Agenger from the WIFO told the same part of the ÖVP how he also told us. I think that's very good, because finally it's a Toolbox from which we can then find ourselves in the political discourse, what we think is useful and what we don't think is useful. There were things that we don't think make sense. That is the question of privatisation, because then we are right back where we did not want to go. But what he said very well is that he believes that fiscal consolidation can only take place if one starts with a start-up financing. This means that one must first take money in the hands, for the simple reason, because growth and employment – something that has come from many today, including the ÖVP – is the goal to consolidate the budget in order to strengthen internal purchasing power and to do all these things. That with this budget, with the handcuffs – as many have said – that we have, will be a real challenge for the ministers. That is, you pick up, we pick up, but I think it will be time to find out, to negotiate and see which way we go. There I am, for example, when I refer to the health chapter, where I know that the Minister Stöger has been very closely handcuffed, really glad that this place is in a social democratic hand. Similarly, I am talking about the resort that the Renate Csörgits spoke about, namely the workplace for work and social affairs, for the simple reason that it will be a matter of setting priorities in autumn, looking at what we are doing with this tight budget framework. [[Abg. New builders: That is where we hang the 500 000 unemployed!]] We are all, I believe, aware of the need to reduce the deficit. I don't think there's any contradiction. Only when we have money in the cash registers do we have room to make politics. That's a very clear and simple thing! However, we need to see where we save. For example, if you look at the health budget, you know that the Minister of Health has a very large number of fixed expenditures that he cannot control and where he cannot do all things. For example: He has to finance the vaccination programme, he has to finance AIDS aid and drug advice, and the largest part that goes into hospital funding. What remains is a little money where he has room, but actually nothing he can control with. When we think about what we had in the last Health Committee alone about ideas related to the Child Health Programme, child health dialogue, we know that a lot of work is happening to us and, above all, we have to pay attention to social balance, where we have to get the money that is just enough to put it in the right place. What I would like from Mr Finanzminister is that he is considering with that enthusiasm, with which he has addressed this paper of expenditure-side reductions, how to increase the revenue of the state. I only think that we said that if we raised property taxes to the European level, we could bring €4 billion more into the budget. That means: Saving: yes!, but from our side also thinking about how we could improve the revenue side of the state to the extent that we would again have room to make reasonable policies in the sense of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15916	Next speaker: Deputies of windwood. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e15937	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The debate on debt is, of course, one where, as Mr Grosz said today, one could think: Well, there we would have to be prophets! But before dealing with prophethood, let us take a look back into the past! All warnings in spite of this – every argument has had to hold out what you can well see if you are facing the consequences today – have been made in debt, for the “consumer”, for the social sector and for investment. There will also be good arguments for each sub-area. [[Abg. Heinzl: Hypo Alpe-Adria! What about your bank there?]] There will also be good arguments. [[Abg. Bucher: He means the Lower Austrian! He's a lowlander!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] - He's always worried about the bank. Yeah, he finally got rid of the Trauma BAWAG, now he finally found another bank. It's not about banks, it's about a different debt. And as a Lower Austrian, I'll tell you: I know the Lower Austrian hypo. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But there is the coalition partner to ask, since you need to focus the look a little further on the left from your place! What is now coming is, to some extent, the great commitment that the financial and economic crisis is causing us to make even more debt, but at the same time we are driving a savings course. So there is now a presentation of where to save. Only: In the individual case, some will still experience his miracle as meaningful as that is. There is a shift in addition to the savings course. It is easy to do, you go in the direction of the countries and also in the direction of the communities. If you are dealing alone with the situation of the communities, You see: In the meantime, nearly 1 000 people are no longer in a balanced ordinary household. [[Abg. Bookbooker: More than 800!]] This has not been achieved by – I say it this way – excessive debt, but it is fact: It is simply income that is breaking down, and it is at the same time the social area, which is not affecting where expenditure is also rising. The thinkers stand with their backs to the wall. But they continue to shift. I think it would be nice to have a rethinking, because you can't build up everything on the community. That must also be financed. What the situation now shows, namely that every federal country itself has less resources for the renovation in the communities, will, I tell you now, result in one, two years – and that will not be possible – that you will also have to take money into your hands for the communities. We have always advocated an administrative and state reform. After that, there were a lot of promises, special summit, the cuckoo knows what has not been done. What came out is at most Micky Mouse reform. You can't go to the root. We always have a president, whom we love, who gives the shortest talk on this subject at the speaker's desk, who simply goes here and says: Njet, don't go now! I remember from times of government, there was always a round of negotiations with him, where it said: Yeah, that makes sense anyway, we should do that, but not now, we'll do it next time! It's an old ÖVP tactics: Let's do it next time! It has never actually happened, and today we have the situation that no one trusts in it. But the administrative and state reform is overdue. She comes when she even comes to be late for many years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are now preparing reforms in the individual ministries – and I am now particularly addressing the security question to or the Ministry of the Interior – and Mr Kößl has given us the best: There are great innovations that happen there! That's what I'm telling you: Take the conversation with the simple cops on the street! They will get the same answer everywhere. [[Congratulations to MEPs Mayerhofer and Jury.]] Every reform only raises the question: What's worse now? The desk perpetrators in the ministries who have a direct wire, which are equipped with a party book, are given full protection. [[OBJECTIVES]] It is often bureaucratic obstacles that are being built up. We have just had a contribution from Mr Moser on this subject. She has experienced it herself: 30 minutes for a bicycle theft. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Theft is safe...!]] What does the Kößl say about the ÖVP? [[Abg. Hoefinger: colleague, how long would it have taken if the Mosers had been there?]] In Kößl, it says: Great reforms, everything's fine!, he doesn't even come up with thoughts about what we could do better. But things are, I think, sun-clear. It's important only: You must differ from the practice of ignoring so far! Because behind me is the Secretary of State Lopatka: The Ministry of Finance is the living proof that there is no longer anything working in dealing with the employees. We will have the opportunity to debate the product piracy report tomorrow, and I will just say: A law that's without teeth like that! I've said it several times: You're not ready for a change! If more than half of the seized goods are returned to free circulation, although they have been proven to have been counterfeited, I will tell you: It is high time to finally repair this law! And if there is a crime as a financial criminal offence that has always had zero for years because it is formulated in such a way that it is not applicable at all, I say: It would be high time you did something about it! This is the case with the Ministry of Finance. But there you sleep everything. You have the impression: The main issue of equipment in the Ministries continues to be well cared for.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16071	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16092	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The sharpest economic downturn in post-war times required special measures. We have put in place these measures, whose impact makes Austria better than many other countries. With the now debated Federal Financial Framework Act, we will re-evaluate the clear traces left by this economic downturn and the related measures in public budgets and reduce expenditure increases. This is essential for our growth prospects, essential for the employment situation and for our social system, which is essential for stability, but above all important for the scope of future generations. The reduction of deficits does not go by any way. Ladies and gentlemen! The Strategy Report also invites countries and municipalities to make a consolidation contribution. Yesterday, a crisis summit of the municipal councils of all the federal states with the municipal government took place in Linz. [[Abg. Windwood: Without results!]] President Mödlhammer said that the financial situation of the municipalities was becoming increasingly tense. On the one hand, we have a revenue problem, but also an expenditure problem. The main cause of the problem of expenditure is demographic development. The cost of care and health has increased dramatically in recent years, partly with a double-digit amount per year. The Upper Austrian State Councillor Josef Stockinger said that the social and health costs will soon be simply unfinanceable for the municipalities. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: A failed man!]] Yes, demographic development presents us with special challenges. Calculations from Upper Austria show that the cost of care will increase more dramatically than previously assumed. The municipalities of Upper Austria are already €120 million in this area today; in ten years it will probably be €175 million. Thanks be to God, 80 percent of those in need of care and care will be cared for by their families today – priceless, unpaid benefits. Thank you for that! Otherwise we would have to have a debate on the financing of care in a much different dimension. The long-term financing security is the basis for securing our built-in care system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] .. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to deal with future care funding and find a different solution, because only then will the communities be able to carry out their tasks in the future, and can also make a consolidation contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16146	Mr Mayerhofer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16167	Madam President. Estimated member of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech deals with the field of internal affairs, and I am able to get up with the very floweringly formulated strategy report. In this section you can read in the first part: Raise the subjective sense of security. –I have already come to speak about it and have expressed the following opinion: The issue of security policy is not about conveying feelings, but about creating facts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as security is concerned, we need to create facts, as cheap facts as possible for the citizen – after all, it will pay its tax schilling on time. The Austrian does not want to be engulfed in feelings in this regard, but wants to find factual security. It should be the overall objective of the current government to produce, not in fact, good policy, but only a feeling that we should all be in. No, this is not the task of the Federal Government! The citizen is faced with a crime that has never existed in this country. I would therefore like to look at the level of security from a different perspective. And that's... Imagine that the Austrian police would only intervene emotionally! Imagine the police just conveying a sense of security! No, the Austrian police want to create real, factual security, Mr State Secretary! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] I can inform you that our police are still ready to do so – not because of the security policy you are doing, but still! This must be noted in the light of the facts and also the comments made by Mr Windholz, who is more than right, and by Mr Christoph Hagen. Now to point 2: The Strategy Report mentions adjusted duration of procedure in the field of asylum and refugees. – Question: What has the relevant ministers so far stopped doing at last in this area, namely minimizing the Dublin cases? One of the priorities and priorities is mentioned in the Strategy Report: Consequences of the Dublin II Regulation. Question: What happened there? – Around two thirds of the asylum seekers’ cases in Austria are Dublin cases. A total of 7 900 were examined in the previous year. Some 5,500 cases are so-called Dublin-out procedures. As a further goal of the priority and focus on asylum and refugees, increased networking becomes a very beautiful expression, so flowering! – called the migration authorities. - That's great! In this context, we must quote from a report by the Court of Auditors what has been achieved, namely: This is where we created the asylum court, with the result that, although we have caused the administrative court a great deal of relief, we have more than taxed the Constitutional Court. This has long been obvious, and nothing has happened! And a few more points to think – not to me, to our police officers: What do you want to save there? Nothing at all, nothing's going on! I learned from a colleague in the early morning, a radio can't be sent to repair because we don't have the money for that. So far we are, ladies and gentlemen: We can't get in touch anymore, we can't even call for help again because the radio doesn't work! No vehicle is too much, no one printer is too much! I would also like to say that now, because it is known outside anyway that there is only one printer on a floor – economically, and so that the colleagues don't have so much noise, the Minister has said so much. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] – I'm still holding the printer noise – if only I've finished my ad at last! By the way, Mrs Moser, thank you very much for your remarks. A real fact-finding report, by the way, which is sad enough. Only: From your side, he's strange; I'm telling you that. [[Rejoicing and condolences with members of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Why?]] We liberals believe in savings and have always demanded them – always! – but we do not demand them with man and PC mouse, but we simply demand them in the field of asylum. It costs €180 million a year, and that's not a cardboard handle.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16271	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16292	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are setting the framework for expenditure today, and we all see that the framework is getting smaller. In the family sector – an important chapter for people in Austria, for children in Austria – savings must also be made. I am convinced that considerations in this respect must be carefully addressed and that statements, such as those made by Mr Lopatka, have not been considered. The Austrian families did not deserve this. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria invests a lot of money in family support, namely around €6.5 billion, and family aid alone amounted to €3.36 billion in 2008 for 1,799,288 children. These are important, necessary measures, and yet we are still committed to some family policy goals, such as the higher birth rate – it would be necessary to increase birth rate – in terms of poverty prevention or, for example, the promotion of women's employment. Austrian family support is dominated by money transfers that do not always bring the desired improvement. In my opinion, therefore, Austrian family support needs a very balanced balance between the benefits that families receive directly, and the benefits in kind, such as infrastructure measures or school books, free travel et cetera. This also raises the question of what measures can be taken in the context of budgetary consolidation in order to address this imbalance. We do not believe that the questioning of the free kindergarten year, the last year before schooling, or the rejection of the academic education of the kindergartens is clearly not a target. We are convinced that children have the right to best care and promotion. Despite the mandatory kindergarten year, we are also in line with EU standards. Although we invest a lot in the expansion, the Wifo tells us that above all, we must continue to drive the development of childcare facilities for the under-threes. The Wifo experts believe that the transition of funding from direct family support to social infrastructure is essential, on the one hand, in order to promote women's employment, and on the other hand, because by providing structures all children, all families benefit from it. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the biggest challenges will be the consolidation, the reorganisation of family allowances, from which family benefits are mainly financed. 70 percent of this family tax compensation is financed by contributions from pay and salary amounts. Family support, financial support relieves family poverty in retrospect. However, it seems to me that poverty is prevented in the same way. That means just wages, that means income from which man/woman can live, that means promoting women's employment, and that has nothing to do with over-the-ratio life. The challenges of fiscal consolidation are large. Minister Mitterlehner and State Secretary Marek are facing important, major tasks. It is clear to us that the necessary savings measures must under no circumstances be implemented at the expense of the weaker, in no case at the expense of the children. Efficiency, quality and reliability are our priority.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16343	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16365	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The positive thing about what you decide today is that we have a law that would enable longer-term budget planning. But it should be intelligent budget planning, and it has confirmed Wifo to you, it has confirmed to you other experts: What is available here has nothing to do with intelligent planning! And that's where I have to refer specifically to the field of education. As in times like this 1.4 percent save, and not save intelligently with the lawn mower, Mr Grossruck, as you meant, is absolutely counterproductive. Due to the biennial jumps alone, we should have about 0.7 percent more in the field of schools – and not less. To sum up, this means that we will have to fight in the coming year with about 1,000 non-retirements of teachers' and teachers' institutions. And the promises we have heard that there are mainly savings in the administrative field, are anything but credible. Those who have experienced this “trailer game” in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, where all five parties have agreed to a paper that would really go in the right direction, but were absolutely clear that the government will already be kneeling in front of the princes of the country, will not believe in the fact that it really comes to efficient and effective savings. In addition, we all agreed that possible savings in the field of education should be immediately reinvested, because we need urgent reform. We must move ahead with social integration, we must see that we are putting the support system on modern feet, that we are orienting ourselves to those countries that are constantly preoccupied with it. We know where we're going to look. Overall, we cannot support this law, not least because of that. In this context, I would also like to remind you that Austria's educational expenditure has fallen over the last ten years, at least in relation to GDP. In 1995 we still had six percent expenditure on education, In terms of GDP, but expenditure fell to 5.4 percent by 2005. It is actually a sad game for our state that we were not able to think again here. The OECD average has increased over the same period to 6.2 per cent, and we are therefore clearly in a position to fall behind. It is true, I think, that similar to what we have to say for the ÖAAB education programme presented this week. This is a journey with full gas into the past, which has been confirmed by various experts from your own party. I recall, for example, Herbert Paierl, who, in this context, has made it quite clear what he thinks about it. He said it was definitely not a concept for the future. What you are doing with education in this state, unfortunately without the real defense of the Minister, without the defence of the Social Democratic Group, is a policy that will lead us permanently to the back of the OECD, which guarantees that we will have a permanent subscription to the lower ranks of the OECD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16435	The President of the Council is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16456	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot about the necessary budgetary discipline today. Of course, opinions about how and where best to save. I think we all know such debates. Not least, this often starts in the narrower family circle, and here, as there, only the common search for efficient and sustainable savings will bring the budget budget back to its order. In family policy, a lot has been achieved in recent years, and there have also been financial reliefs for the families below. I am thinking here, for example, of improving the childcare allowance, improving for multiple-child families or the mandatory free-school year, not even talking about Upper Austria, where the kindergarten visit is generally free. It is important that we also secure these benefits for the future, because in the end it is also a question of keeping in mind the well-being and quality of life of the people, especially the children. But we must also be aware that everything cannot be free. For example, when I think in Upper Austria about the discussion about the free lunch in the kindergarten, I have to say that there are areas where it simply stops with “free” and simply can’t be turned on the public hand. The People's Party focuses on the child's well-being, and it is therefore important to leave and give parents the necessary responsibility. [[Abg. Oillinger: Zogaj family?- Oh, my God!]] And, of course, we also consider family policy measures to see how far this is compatible with the freedom of choice for parents and that freedom of choice is given. Because parents know best and should be able to decide how to care for their children and what schools they attend. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, improving the compatibility of work and family is an important point. However, this must not lead to discrimination against women who want to confess and stay at home longer than they do in their children. It is the duty and task of policy to ensure that both are possible with appropriate framework conditions. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: (in allusion to just a single applause by the ÖVP) Well, what is it?]] – Quiet, Mr Gaßner, it will be. Creativity is required, courage is required so that old structures and habits are also considered. It is sometimes painful, but at the same time it also opens up new opportunities and the opportunity to guarantee the prosperity that exists in our country accordingly for the future. Therefore, we will jointly take advantage of the next few months to find appropriate measures to bring the budget for the future into line by autumn. I think we owe our children an orderly budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16529	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16582	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 the representatives of the government parties, the ÖVP and the SPÖ always requested proposals from the opposition parties. But there are proposals from the opposition, there are just some of us, from the BZÖ, many proposals, and we are one of the strongest opposition parties. This is also beyond dispute in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The government parties should not always wipe, delay or reject our requests. In this context, as far as the proposals are concerned, I should like to bring our Austrian spar book to the meeting, which includes immediately applicable savings proposals of €7 billion, ladies and gentlemen – €7 billion, available immediately to increase income, to promote families and benefits to invest in the education of our children, to introduce the pension account and to ensure generation equity and pension security, €7 billion to achieve justice with the citizens' money. We want to save on state and administrative reform, health reform, for example with our health prevention bonus system. Our health spokesman has tabled this request to the Health Committee, and Mrs Oberhauser has referred to this request as ‘humane’, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to know what this proposal, which is intended to relieve the budget, is contemptuous. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also want to save ourselves with a package of savings for politics, by halving the number of Members of the Land Days, by the National Council. It is also intended to save the ministerial cabinet, especially as regards advertising. [[That advertisement shows in which a pregnant woman is pictured and which means that an unborn child already has 123 901 € in debt.]] Ads like this that cost a lot of money don't bring anything to our children, our families! These would have more of it if they got this money directly, instead of it being powdered in expensive ads here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you do not want to take up our proposals, you will at least do so with the Court of Auditors' proposals, because, finally, the Court of Auditors will have the opportunity to take up its proposals. In 2007, 200 proposals on administrative reform and red tape were presented. – Passed up to now is relatively little. Working groups have been set up, one working group after another, I think now it is the 728. Working group on administrative reform – but there is no result on the table. Not only do I and we from the BZÖ see a great potential for savings in administrative reform, but also Bernhard Felder from the Institute for Higher Studies, who also saw this in the "press hour" on the 2nd. May has been mentioned on TV. It assumes that fiscal consolidation can take place even without tax increases, and this view we agree with our proposals and our demands. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to confirm that you will not lead Austria out of the crisis with your lip confessions, your announcement policy, your covert tactics, the eye and ear policy as far as opposition applications are concerned. We want Austria to get out of the crisis and go into a good future. I think we all agree on this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we want to achieve this objective, we need, above all, confidence in the policy and predictability of policy, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen – and this is the BZÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16683	Mr Elmar Mayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16707	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated visitors to the gallery, especially the country club director with accompaniment and the press officer! I am particularly pleased that you are guests of Parliament today. On the subject of education, I should like to say briefly: It is true that two of my previous speakers, whom I very much appreciate, namely Dr. Grünewald and Dr. Walser, have said here in the field of education, when you thought you should save, save and save everywhere, but not in the field of science, research and education. – This is not a question at all, but I believe that one should also address questions of education with more enthusiasm and more joy and also more innovating will than previous Members Dr. Walser did, which rather spread a grave mood here. I believe that we must also show what opportunities we have in the field of education. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] One of these possibilities – and I am glad that this is also part of the new educational concept of the ÖVP – we see in day care. It is very important that we say goodbye to the fact that in the morning everything will be instigated, so to speak, and only more will be cared for in the afternoon. We are in favour that care is distributed throughout the day, that good all day care is offered. This should be as comprehensive as possible and, of course, on a voluntary basis. The offer is supposed to be for everyone. I think this is an important good step. It's getting harder where it's about school administration. And I have to give Mr Walser the right to say – and all five parties agreed, including the ÖVP – that there is a need to make radical cuts in the field of school administration. We cannot maintain the whole system on the four levels of municipality, district, country and federal government. We now have a religious school inspector, an inspector for sports education and music education, a district school inspector and a national school inspector, and there are still superior bodies that control the whole. I mean, That's not how we're going! There is a huge amount of money in the “education sand” that we absolutely need for educational tasks. That is why I think this measure is very important. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Ursula Haubner :Delete!]] An example of this for those who do not come out of practice: If a teacher wants to have an hour of support for a child in need of funding, he calls the District School Inspector, and his first question is: How many years of loss of career? In good German: How many times did the student stay sitting? When you say, Never before!, then you won't get any promotion. In such a case, you don't have to try at all. The student must be seated at least once and be again threatened by sitting down so that he receives a promotion instruction. That can't be! Therefore: If we go away from these senseless multiple administrative structures, we create autonomous schools! [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the BZÖ and the Agg. Dr. Walser.]] Let us give the resources where we need them, directly to schools! [[Abg. Scheibner: Do not demand, but implement! Do it!]] They know best what to do, how to use resources most efficiently. These will certainly be the sample of nails. Another important area is that of secondary education. I appeal, above all, to the EIAs, especially to those who say that they also think nationally to question their views. Then: It is perfectly nonsensical to have four different types of school for the 10- to 14-year-olds, even with different forms of training. Think of all the deficits that result, and all the costs that result from it! To the primary school, the “New Secondary School” and the other general school tests and the AHS sub-level, the special school is also added with the four levels I mentioned earlier. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: We are not in government, you are in government!]] It is therefore very important to make sense to have better education opportunities and to make changes in the sense of greater efficiency, especially where this system is most expensive. There is nowhere to be found in the world as expensive a system of education as we do in Austria for the 10- to 14-year-olds. No one can say what it really costs. Not even the Court of Auditors and the IHS can give us figures on what the school of the 10- to 14-year-olds costs. I guarantee you, also as a practitioner: If we manage to use this money efficiently where we want to have it, we can offer the best lessons for the 10- to 14-year-olds. For this we want to fight and commit ourselves! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16788	Mr. Dr. Königshofer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16809	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to ask myself very slowly how useful it is that we make ourselves here and discuss the Austrian budget, the development of the budget, the reorganisation of the budget, savings measures, expenditure-side and revenue-side budgetary measures, especially as we know, That, on the other hand, billions and billions are not going down the Canale Piccolo, but the Canale Grande of the EU, down to the Aegean Sea, where our Austrian tax billions will then be sent into a Greek barrel without soil. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a fundamental question: We do not need to make ourselves here to discuss small savings, as Mr Hagen or Mr Mayerhofer meant, when they mentioned here, that on the one hand, a police radio device can no longer be sent to repair, because the money is no longer available, but on the other hand, billions and billions of Austrian taxpayers are paid for EU aid packages. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would not be acceptable under Article 125 of the Lisbon Treaty, but it refers to another article, namely Article 122, where it says – I quote – that: ‘If a Member State is seriously affected by difficulties or serious difficulties due to natural disasters or exceptional events which escape its control, the Council may, on a proposal from the Commission, decide to grant the Member State concerned financial assistance under certain conditions.’ So, ladies and gentlemen: The Greek budget sum is treated by the EU as a natural disaster, such as an extraordinary event, such as the explosion of a nuclear power plant, such as Chernobyl, on which the Greek government had no influence, which has escaped the influence of the Greek government. The Austrian citizens must be sold from the EU and from the EU Commission. That's where you actually make the citizens an X for an U. I now come to two important areas where we see where the money is missing. These are the communities; that has already been addressed. In Tyrol, the community day a week ago took place in Kematen, and the media report the following – I quote –: “Many communities are piped out of the last hole. According to Ernst Schöpf, President of the Tyrolean Municipal Association, this is linked to declining revenue and increasing tasks. “The tax income shares fell by 25 million to 294.9 million euros compared to the previous year”, he says. In addition, rising expenditure is: Basic security increased by seven, spending on youth welfare by 12 percent." And it goes on to say: “If we continue this way,” says the president of the community of Tyrol, “everything is about our ears!” The Tyrolean daily “Communal” writes similarly. And these are important infrastructure projects, which are now being questioned at once, being evaluated, being re-examined. This is particularly true of us Tyroleans in relation to the Brenner Base Tunnel. Here Mr. Landeshuptmann rides with a small group of mayors – I also saw colleagues Hermann Gahrond Franz Hörl in Vienna in a photo, and they protest there and demand the realization of the Brenner base tunnel. An old proverb says: If the emperor has no more money, he can't pay for anything! - I don't want to say the other thing: If the Emperor ceases to pay then he pays with soldiers – we don't want to be that far! But I'm pointing out where this is going. There is only one budgetary framework, there is only one side of income from Austrian tax resources, and if these are misdistributed if too much of it flows down the EU's Canale Grande, there is too little left. We should think about that! This would be the fundamental task of the Austrian budget policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16901	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16922	Madam President. High house! I believe that a knowledge is not only clear here in the House, but also in the population, namely that we are in economically difficult times. However, I sometimes feel that the consequence of the realization that we have debt with which we have the right to deal, where we as politicians have the responsibility to find a solution, does not seem to be in everyone's/every woman's head, namely, that we have to save. I think we should go ahead as politicians with a good example, because how do we want to understand the population that it is our task to save when politicians themselves make the statement: It should be saved, but please not in the area I represent!Unknown term type: "%s".? Our challenge will be to clean up the budget. This will be one of the biggest challenges in the years 2011 to 2014. The goal of reducing the deficit from 4.7 percent to 2.3 percent is not an easy task. But we must take this seriously. In the field of education and culture, which has already been addressed by a number of previous speakers, a reduction of “only” – under quotation marks – is expected to be 1.4 percent”. The question will also be – this is not clear from the strategy plan until now – how the Federal Minister will focus on this. I think that especially in economically difficult times, the culture – and Austria is famous for being a cultural nation – must not be too short. The arts and culture sector, particularly as regards the creative economy, is an area where many people find employment. This is especially true in the field of design, where many young artists also work, not only nationally but also internationally. For example, I am thinking of the current exhibition in the MuseumsQuartier, which is called “Design Impulse”. It is also worth mentioning that contemporary art is not only credited in Vienna, but also in the federal states. Graz, in order to bring just one example, is on the best way to become “City of Design”. That is, if it works, a very great award. It is therefore also to be supported that a measure already taken and mentioned by the Minister is funding projects when it comes to supporting young artists with scholarship programs. The slow economic growth is of course also a major challenge for the social situation of artists. We need to improve these under the heading. This is a goal that we have to face together. Some major projects have already endured a solution in recent months, not to say years. The solution has just been presented by the Minister. I mean the Literary Museum, the redesign of the Chamber of Art and, last but not least, the construction of the 20th House. The next budget will discuss the following questions: How does it look like the pooling of folk and folklore museums? And how does the public storage look like? These are things for which the Ministries have proposals to make. We're already very excited about this one. And then we will have to put up with the discussion constructively. Finally, I would like to mention one point because it is currently up-to-date. The Bundestheater – at least important institutions in cultural life – will be evaluated. Because we live in economically difficult times, the premise here must be: The money that is already being invested must not flow into the administration or the apparatus, yes there must be more money for art. It remains to be hoped that the Minister will fulfil her cultural mission in the years 2011 to 2014. In any case, we will have a critical eye on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e16989	Mrs Mag. Honey's coming to terms now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17011	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing the Financial Framework Act for hours now, implicitly also about the Stability Programme and the Strategy Report. In these reports you will present us with a need for consolidation of €7 billion. I would like to ask quite different from Mrs Fuhrmann's first question whether it is really the right time to put all these rigorous savings measures, especially in the expenditure field. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What?- Oh, my God!]] Then: The dogma of a budget deficit as low as possible is definitely something neoconservative, something neoliberal. And that exactly this economic policy approach is not really the yellow of the egg, I think we should have really learned from this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am therefore asking whether in 2011 it is not too early to start with the austerity measures, whether it would rather be appropriate to continue to maintain economic and labour market protection investments, because the situation is still not stable. If you look at your economic forecasts or growth forecasts in the various reports, you can see that the data is not identical. They're anything but safe. I am particularly sceptical about the data on the development of unemployment, but also about the growth of private consumption, which you expect from your reports. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, but you state a need for consolidation of 7 billion, and that is a huge amount of money. It really needs to be considered very carefully how you can get to these 7 billion. And I have to ask: Did you think about that? Did you really think about it? Do you have a plan to use what measures you can take to reach this €7 billion? Unfortunately, you give the impression that you do not have such a plan. You submit a financial framework law which gives us the impression that this law is primarily used for stability within the coalition, because how else would it be to explain that with the factor one you are about to cut across all headings? That doesn't have any logic. Okay, I know there are some exceptions, for example, in heading 2 “Work and Social Affairs”. You have probably been concerned that if the cuts in this area were even more drastic, they would have a negative impact on the vote behaviour of voters in the upcoming country elections. But I do not believe that severe reduction measures in the social field can be expected with these figures. Mr Hundstorfer is extremely covered with information on the reduction measures. You only hear rumors so far, for example, unemployment benefit. A one-month waiting period is to be introduced, for everyone and not, as before, only for those who have quit themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if such a measure comes, then you must make the accusation that you are really consolidating the budget at the back of the weakest of our society! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You really want to save yourself the unemployment benefit if someone, let's say, finds a new job after three or four weeks of unemployment? They think that this is not a problem at all at this transitional stage, because there will be savings. But that's a misacceptance! You should know that we have thousands of people in this country who don't even deal with what they deserve with their job a month. You already have to make debts for simple consumption expenditure. For those people who often have a bad level of education and who form exactly the group who often have to change their job, it doesn't matter if they have a income gap, an income gap of a few weeks – let's say, in the worst case, from seven to eight weeks. It doesn't matter! And if the above-mentioned measure is your contribution in the year of the fight against poverty, I must say: That's really a scandal! I hope you won't implement this measure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal for savings is still a rumor, but we do not have something else. It's clear: All savings in the social field will become horrendous! We Greens certainly do not agree with this law either. Then: Either you have no plan or you have a plan and you do not inform the National Council or the public about what measures you will implement here. Both of us are totally unacceptable!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17069	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17106	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The economic policy development of the last months, which has taken place worldwide, naturally leads to the fact that, in Austria too, the budgetary scope has become much closer. Planning long-term budget development, developing strategies, is one of the central, responsible challenges of a federal government and a parliament. I think that we should not have such discussions on the basis of rumour, but rather we should rely on the facts we have. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you rule it out?- Oh, my God!]] To develop the right strategies for consolidation, so as to save – and that we have to save – is beyond dispute that we can also ensure the country's future capacity accordingly, that is the challenge that we have to face. So it's not just about how much we save, but also about how we save. The economic researchers recommend in this context – rightly, as I think – that the savings should not simply be made according to the lawn mower method, that is, all the same, but that we have to consider very accurately, strategicly, in which important future areas need to be saved or even invested in the future. With this I am in the field of science, to which I now want to dedicate myself. In addition to education and social policy, the “Science and Research” area is one of the areas that economic researchers expressly recommend to exclude from savings policy – and to make strategic priorities here, because they are the important areas of the future. As far as science is concerned, I regret the completely contradictory signals sent to the Austrian universities. A few weeks ago, it was said, there would be supposed to be extra €100 million, although they are not yet there. A few weeks later, universities that are not sure about universities will be informed that there will already be reserves for the next service agreement period, that less money will be available, and that in a time horizon, where, from today's point of view, we can't really estimate how the budget development will be made up until then. I would also like to stress today at this point that the 2 percent target for the tertiary sector is up to 2020. This is a decision of this House. This is also a decision of the Council of Ministers. I recognise that this 2 percent target should be ensured with a high share of public resources, that public funds should be used to secure the tertiary sector, however universities are called on to analyse structural reforms and efficiency improvements and to open up resources here. Ladies and gentlemen! The final budget will be negotiated by autumn and autumn respectively. I would like to be able to support until then a Minister of Science who is fighting for a better financial support from Austrian universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17152	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17173	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is obviously holding a budget clause. [[on empty ÖVP bank lines]] [[BZÖ and Abg. Vock.]] I would have liked to talk to Secretary-General Lopatka, too. But maybe you can also give answers. [[in the direction of Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrary]] Today, we have heard a lot from the Federal Chancellor – even my previous speaker pointed out – who meant that lawn mower-like saving was bad and rejected. Klubobmann Kopf then said that now administrative savings are important. We would underline all of this and consider it to be correct. The question is just how it is implemented. This budget framework is a first step in the implementation of savings. If you look at this more precisely, you have the choice between two points, but both are not positive: Either it is a lawn mower-like saving – first variant. Even if you have said, Mrs Kuntzl, that there are priorities, I must say: Yeah, with percentages. At that resort it is over 3%, others are only a little over 1%, but still: Whether you define the cut height of the lawn on different surfaces with 5 cm or 10 cm, it is at least a lawn mower-like saving – without responding to real priorities without discussing what the tasks of a modern state of the future – also in terms of the global situation – are, and only then, to put in place the appropriate measures. It's not going to be done! This is a lawn mower-like saving! Or, that's the second variant, the whole thing's a shame at all. It depends on the basis of which these savings are made. The current base is the 2009 estimate. But if you look at the success of 2009... – Yes, I know that, but still the percentage... – Yes, the old financial framework. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators:... Financial frameworks!]] [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] But if you compare this with the budget figures: Are these savings? – There are no savings. And if you take this from the success of 2009, then there is no savings at all, then it is about the same amount because the ministries apparently spent less in the previous year than they had estimated in the budgets. It is also a question of how this can be seen. But now, ladies and gentlemen, on the priorities and administrative savings that Klubobmann has also called for. One example is education, which has also been mentioned by Mr Elmar Mayer. This is now the second time that a member of a government party, as well as the Minister of Education, Schmied, and the Minister of Science, are here at the speaker's desk, to bring in useful concepts, ideas and demands for saving in the school administration. Hundreds of percent support! It is always said that the opposition demands and criticizes only. - No! If you do so, you have the support of the BZÖ, because that is one thing we have been making for years. These are also the proposals made by the Court of Auditors. Only, ladies and gentlemen, you are in the government, you even have SPÖ Minister Forging here, who also supports it. How is it implemented? When will it be implemented? That would now be my question to the Secretary of State Lopatka, for he is supposedly assigned to conduct the negotiations with the countries. The Minister of Education, as she told us, has no pouvoir to conduct these negotiations. So what is now being done to actually implement these ideas in this area? - We don't hear anything. That would be interesting and exciting. Not only could we invest in a modern education system, but we could actually achieve savings and re-transmissions of budget resources. It is also in other areas, such as health. We will have this tomorrow, I think, on the agenda. In the Health Committee, we have made some sensible proposals for savings in the field of health management. A Member of the ÖVP has told us that this is not the competence of the National Council, and we do not need to talk about it here at all. If that's the only thing you have to say about the billions of expenditure you could use more meaningfully where you could really save, then it's sad! If you do not trust to negotiate with the countries that they should not only spend the money we are taking from the Federation here, but that they must also make a contribution to the more efficient use of resources, that they also have to question their structures, then this is too little at a time when it is about reducing the budget deficit. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have also made enough proposals on this: to prepare the competences in the countries, to save levels of administration, to also question legislative competence, to question the institutions. Mrs Fuhrmann said we should start with ourselves. Well, wonderful! Let us also negotiate with the countries. Let us also start with reducing the bodies, reducing the days of the countryside, reducing the councils. You know, I've already said... – No, you see, it's like that again, I don't want to say, "stupid", but that's the problem. [[Abg. May. Fuhrmann: Why don't you work for free?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Here we are again at the sausage-meal discussion!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have now really reached a turn. You're talking about tax increases, you're hot. When it comes to how to pull the money out of the public's pocket, you're creative. But when it comes to once a truly clumsy, outdated administration, a political system that has perhaps been very good in the last 50 years, but certainly does not give an answer to the tasks of a modern state of the future – and you are also a youth representative here – when you say: If you want to work for free?, then I'm really sorry, then I don't need to discuss it with you anymore because you don't have the horizon that is necessary for that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But if you want to explain to me that we still need 1,000 district councils in Vienna, that's your business. If you want to explain to me that we still need everything in the nine days, that we need a federal council without competence and that all is turned around, then this is also your business. It doesn't surprise me. In fact, we do not need to discuss further. If this is the voice of the government, I tell you, the citizen has to decide whether this is the government he supports in the future – which is creative in tax increases, but does nothing to modernise the structures here in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17312	Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17335	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Financial Framework Act now offers us maximum limits of expenditure for ministers over the next few years. I believe that it is a very good, disciplining and at the same time liberating instrument, because within this financial framework a lot of new things can actually be addressed. I hope that this will also be the case if we have to save, much more than in the depth of the debate today. It's about saving massively, but intelligently. It is about not saving anything and much that we are not doing ourselves when we talk about Greece. An example: If the Austrian Federal Railways require €2.1 billion each year in tax payments for pension subsidies and there still secretaries – secretaries! – which would be urgently needed in other departments of the ÖBB, cannot be moved and for this reason – just so happens – may/must retire at 45 years, then in some areas we need at least as much action as Greece. I assume that a stronger and more massive saving in this country will be possible and possible! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] For the relation: €2.3 billion in Greece's aid – these are only guarantees! The budget grants to the Austrian Bundesbahnen amount to quite much every four months. But the money is always spent, and we loosely do so three times a year. I assume that, for example, massive savings are possible in this area, without pushing forward projects to the long-term bank, such as the Brenner Base Tunnel, which has already invested hundreds of millions of €, which is the most important heavy-duty link on the North-South axis in Europe, even though the Austrian federal railways cannot earn much money on this route and therefore consider it to be less important. I think that these projects must not be pushed to the long bank for past old burdens, but must nevertheless be possible. Intelligent savings also mean that we need to take on more or less money than before for research, science and innovation. I assume that, if this is not possible under the current financial plan, we need to share creative opportunities to find out how to do so. For one thing is certain – someone told me recently, I found the saying good –: In the future, we will not be able to live to cut each other's hair and sell each other our own fruits; but what we have to do is to be better and faster than other world regions, which today will be more difficult, because the others will also be better. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This has been the case in the past!]] I therefore assume that we also have to use more resources in this area than are legible in today's Financial Framework Act. I can imagine that something is being privatized for this. We'll have to be creative here. It says: There must be more money for the smartest minds and the best ideas. We will work on this until autumn – I hope together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17392	Next speaker: Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17413	High house! As a building speaker at the FPÖ, I was surprised when Finance Minister Pröll answered a question of the Greens in a reasonable manner in the Budget Committee: I don't know how to put up 1 billion € for the thermal renovation. In the same committee, however, he has explained to us how to apply €2.3 billion for foreign speculators and for banks. – That means 1 billion € for the domestic economy is impossible, but 2.3 billion € are possible. You can see again: If you want to bring money anywhere, it's possible. So it is a question of will and not of ability. There are simple examples for this. Experts confirm: If you invest €100 million in the construction industry, you secure 7 000 to 10,000 jobs, you save € 135 million in unemployment benefit, you get €100 million in additional income on payroll tax, you get €162 million in additional income in social security. That means we're saving ourselves this indirectly again, because we don't have to shoot anything there anymore. That means, in total, that's about €400 million in revenue. I know. If we spend these € 1 billion on thermal rehabilitation, the amount will not come back four times, but the amount will surely be doubled if not tripled. So the money would be much better placed than in Greece. That is why I would at least like to have our tax money invested primarily in the domestic economy, not in foreign speculators, as the construction spokesman of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17449	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17471	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are essentially discussing the expenditure framework for the next years – and it has been defined restrictively. This is in itself recognised by everyone and, of course, good and right, because we all, who have worked in a farm before, know that savings potentials of 5 to 10 percent are usually pain-free to realize. One often only needs to rethink much-possessed unkinds or pages in the field of employment. I believe that it is basically good that all ministries are now called upon to mobilise and raise awareness of such reserves. Of course, we will only be able to say in autumn to what extent these cost savings are actually going through everywhere. I agree with my colleague, Mr Hakl, when she assumes that we will probably have more money at our disposal in the fields of research, development and education. This will be decided on the measures to be discussed. Of course, we will place great emphasis on the fact that these measures are designed in such a way that the areas important for the future in Austria are not too short. It does not have to be 1 billion €, which is provided for the thermal renovation from the budget. With €200 million, €300 million are already giant To move lumina, which the construction industry then has to deal with and make meaningful investments, because they mainly serve decarbonisation and CO2 reduction while at the same time generating employment and tax revenue. I therefore believe that there will have to be these revenue-based measures that will be further implemented in order to finance these important tasks. Mr Hakl said that privatisation was a possibility. I see other possibilities, such as a foundation tax, which should be used for such activities so to speak. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, I do not see this as negative as most of the colleagues of the opposition groups do today. At the end of the year, we will be able to know more and more precisely criticize and report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17519	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17540	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's quite amusing when you listen here: Everyone is serving savings proposals, but obviously nobody is thinking about what the sum of the savings proposals, not only here in this Parliament, but all the parliaments in Europe, are doing. I am saving myself to go into it in detail because my speaking time is limited, but it is clear: If everyone in Europe is saving and all of them talk about the same ugliness – because we have to sacrifice, we have lived over our conditions, mea culpa, mea culpa, and suffocate three times – then there will be no increase in the economy. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] Then the next crisis is already pre-programmed, namely of you, all of you who are praying for the same mantra. You can argue about Mantras. Some of them serve to maintain self-confidence, who need that, which cannot live differently, they must constantly pray for their mantra. But if I hear in here savings proposals like: The ÖBB are to blame for the crisis that have lived with the Pensions et cetera over their conditions!, or other groups are presented, namely by persons who should first come outside of the Mantra at their suitable doorstep, then it becomes critical. This concerns Mrs Hakl, who is presenting the ÖBB from the speaker's desk. – Mrs. Colleague, you would have the opportunity to end the corruption that has soared with your Tyrolean energy supplier TIWAG. That would be a proper savings proposal. Point one. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] What Mr Lopatka says goes beyond that. Lopatka is also a critic of the ÖBB-pensions. But now, although he is no longer present, I ask Mr Lopatka: In the past few years, who has been involved in the government responsible for the implementation of early retirement programmes in the Federal Early Retirement Programmes at ÖBB, Deutsche Telekom? Was not the ÖVP involved together with the FPÖ? [[Call the Greens: Kukacka!]] – Kukacka, thank you for the key word, also such a “famous” State Secretary as Mr Lopatka. They had the lead to answer. And then Mr. Lopatka – I hate to exemplify political pensions to a person – comes up with press releases in which he says: I've only got it since 65. Year of life right to the political board. Mr. State Secretary – you are no longer here, but you will already know – you are not entitled to 65 years of age, but with 62. Mr Grosz is not watching, but the following is the case: However, it will not have a claim of €4 200, but – estimated – it will have between €8 000 and €10 000. Lopatka has already entered politics at the age of 26. There's already a lot of things going on. Nor is it true when Mr Lopatka says that the national Council years are no longer included in his pension. Of course, they are taken into account. Mr Lopatka will then receive one of the lush pensions available in this sector, at 62 years of age, with small sums, but still. It'll pay for him. So I would be a little more careful instead of the people who so vehemently present themselves with savings proposals, but when saving, only the others and never think of themselves or their own environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17592	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17613	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Appreciate High House! We have become accustomed to financing the state with 40.5 percent, 41 percent, 42 percent of the tax share in the wealth generated, and at the same time we have been ashamed and ashamed to raise the taxes to the really necessary, because we should have calculated the debt ratio. No, we're planning to borrow 3 percent, 4 percent, maybe 5 percent from the next generation so that we don't have to burden today's generation. This is an unpleasant reality. We see that this system is becoming increasingly dependent on the money markets in other countries. A second area is where we are becoming more and more dependent: in the energy sector. We know that there is great cost-enhancing potential in these two areas. Interests will rise, energy costs will rise, and if the euro loses value compared to the dollar, all this will be very fast. The oil price development and the development of the euro-dollar ratio in recent months alone mean that we will spend more than €1.5 billion in the current year to pay our energy bill. This is not a tax, it is not a special tax, it is simply a lost money for fossil energy that we send to the supplier countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Saving meaning means saving intelligently. And intelligent saving actually means regaining the free space we need to be able to shape ourselves and not to be pretended by others where we have something to do when. Saving meaningfully means saving intelligently means going new ways, i.e. going new ways in the environment, means trying daily to increase efficiency. In the end, it is a matter of reaching its own resources, even in the field of energy supply, much more on its own. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] We know that the most important potential we have and that we need to develop is the mind, enthusiasm and motivation of the Austrians. You can't tell me that a plus of 2% in the budget is the big ret- It would be a three per cent disaster. In reality, it is about regaining room, using the mind and encouraging people. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you are mature and think you have to talk things wrong here, I have to say: You're talking. Your own conditions are bad! Austria will get out of this crisis faster than other countries. We Austrians are confident, we pick up things and we know what it's all about. And the government with our Euro-Minister Pröll will do very well. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to continue in the future, this means: more cooperation, more cooperation, a common energy policy, a common environmental policy. The stronger we are engaged in Europe, the more we can make out of less money and yet achieve our goals. That is why we are going to implement it together, implement it and use it intensively over the next few months in order to provide for the measures at the right places. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17674	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17695	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Our state owes over €200 billion. The Court of Auditors has long recognized the seriousness of the situation and is constantly giving rise to the necessary administrative reform; an administrative reform which we have been calling for by the BZÖ for years. This administrative reform is absolutely necessary, because in this reform there are large savings volumes of estimated €4 billion to €5 billion and more. Accurate need for rehabilitation, for example, is in the health field. The health system is in need of rehabilitation. The combination of the 22 social security funds is imperative and excessive and is also an ancient claim of the BZÖ. There would be a savings volume of more than €2.5 billion. This would be good money – very good money – for the care of patients with the best medicine and at the same time an essential contribution to the recovery of the budget. I would ask the Social Democrats to extend this to their Federal Minister Stöger. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the possible volume of savings in an administrative reform is less than the Federal Government's money needed for the necessary budget adjustment. Unfortunately, there is currently no one in the coalition – there is no one in sight, nor in the government – who would be willing to use these savings potentials. The administrative reform fails to resist strong stakeholders. But the ÖVP is particularly in the dilemma – Mr. Klubobmann’s head, you know that –: Once, the uncle of the vice chancellor from Lower Austria, Erwin Pröll, blocks when it comes to national interests, and then his own works, President Neugebauer, lie across when officials or others feel affected. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He's here anyway!]] There's total standstill. Their own government is blocking this long-standing state reform. SPÖ and ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, are now taking a much easier way to re-establish the budget, namely the path of new taxes – new taxes and thus massive burdens on citizens. Longest it is official: Chancellors and vice chancellors have broken their promises. The repeated promise that no taxes will be increased during this period is broken down massively and repeatedly. The citizens – and I say this from this point of view too – have been told by the ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government. The citizens are disappointed and – in Steirisch – really ang’eass. Today, we are debating possible taxes, tax burdens and knowing that the red and black tax gap will be most difficult for us. The red-black control cell will meet us in the autumn. We also suspect that all that the tax torturers of the great coalition have sent us over the media in the past few weeks will happen. They're going to pay their taxes. All the burdens will come, the SPÖ will receive its wealth and wealth tax, the ÖVP in return the eco-tax, and all in the intra-party warehouse are satisfied with it. Only we from the BZÖ are not satisfied with this at all. The citizens of Austria have a right to learn what taxes and burdens they still have to expect from this disaster government and they will meet. In conclusion: With these burdens, ladies and gentlemen, there is a real chance of a meaningful administrative reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17738	Mr Commissioner, I am convinced that you could also communicate your message to the plenary without such terms as “parents”. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And “Catastrophic Government”!]] Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17769	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the first place, it is important to note that Austria is really doing this financial and economic crisis very well in international comparison. At 5 percent, we have the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union, and the value of youth unemployment is also the second lowest in Europe. Only Germany and the Benelux countries can have comparable results. These figures clearly show – it is important to note also in the context of this debate – that the economic package of the Federal Government has an impact. A significant part of the successful fight for jobs is the current largest infrastructure offensive in the Second Republic. With investments in the railways and the road, we have, as we have already confirmed, secured 50 000 jobs in a sustainable way. Mass announcements and the collapse of many small and medium-sized enterprises were prevented in the construction industry. We know, ladies and gentlemen, in the crisis, the fall in public investment for the workers concerned leads directly to the employment office. But we have successfully saved thousands of people the fate of unemployment. Let me say clearly: The working people in this country have not caused the economic crisis. These were the international speculators with their casino capitalism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] For us Social Democrats and Social Democrats is quite clear: Those who caused the crisis must also pay for it. We pay reductions in investment with less growth and, of course, with higher unemployment. With the investment in a better and more modern infrastructure, the state has actually saved a lot of money, because nothing is as bad for the budget as high unemployment. Without the taxes and social charges of the Austrian workers, much of what is natural to us – from the police on the street to the health resort, pensions and so on – would not be eligible for funding. To make it short: Investing actually means saving. I'm convinced of that. Infrastructure development brings new growth and more employment. Ifo, IHS confirmed us: 1 € Investment in infrastructure brings €2.1 for value added. The additional revenue for the Minister of Finance and Social Security is about the same as the sum invested. High house! With the expansion of rail and road, Austria is not only taking an important step in the fight against unemployment, but we are also building a modern, customer and environmentally friendly infrastructure. The further attraction of the railways is particularly important for both passenger and freight transport. We are developing the international connections specifically. We invest in the renewal and renovation of railway stations. In addition, about a hundred dangerous railway crossings have been eroded. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am convinced that Austria can get out of the crisis stronger. Future investment in infrastructure and research will create new growth and new jobs. And with that, the budget position can also be handled. The Federal Ministry of Infrastructure is expected to save € 550 million by 2014 due to the budget consolidation. This is why all road and rail projects are evaluated. But, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat this; I am convinced that cuts in investment have, at best, short-term budgetary effects, and in the medium term this is at the expense of the economic dynamics with negative consequences for the budget. We must use existing resources in such a way that they bring growth and additional employment – thus also creating budget consolidation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17837	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17858	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We are now discussing the Federal Financial Framework Act. One area has been completely hidden today: the agricultural sector. However, for the agricultural sector, this strategy report provides for €500 million in savings. I therefore have to join the criticism that has generally come from the opposition today, namely that although so many billions are being sent to Greece, the local farmers are so massively saving. We as the FPÖ will certainly not carry this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that we have not discussed agriculture today is that Mr Gaßner, with his press release entitled “Farming Association after Meetings with Pröll kleinlaut”, has managed to make Parliament for the first time today a farm-free zone. Mr Schultes, who has only “bowed down” his two minutes as a duty exercise, did not find it worth talking about agriculture for a short time. Although he has said that we must create free spaces, that we should not be given by others, what we are doing, but until 8 o'clock the Farmers' Federation has protested massively, and after the discussion with the Minister for Finance you have withdrawn everything and will join the massive reduction in the agricultural budget by 2014 – this reduction is €500 million. Unfortunately, you do it again today, as you have already done with the unit values: You don't give the farmer pure wine, you negotiate behind closed doors. As a FPÖ, we demand that the farmers be given pure wine, that they say where the cuts should go. There are some areas where the agricultural sector could be saved: the bureaucracy, the overarching controls of the farmers by the AMA and the agricultural chambers. There could be a savings, but not the necessary support for local farmers. For this we are not to have as a FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17903	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17925	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Today's decision on the financial framework will take an important step towards an essential and urgently needed budget reorganisation. The priorities must be primarily on the savings side in the coming years. However, it is also about the development of new economic and growth areas, as each tenth of a percentage of growth ensures jobs, but also increases tax revenue. We still need to make the savings measures socially sound and economically sound. It is about fairness of performance and social responsibility. That the opposition politician in a well-functioning democracy criticizes proposals and drafts of the government is in itself nothing unusual and no more surprising. At this point, however, I can join with my colleague Günter Stummvoll, who meant in the morning that he would have expected a political closing from the opposition here. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to find common ground in this important question for Austria. Because I'm at the opposition right now: If one argues, please include facts that also vote, and not, as before, Mr Oellinger, who claimed that State Secretary Lopatka already has a pension claim at 62. – Of course, this is only the case at the age of 65. At this point, however, I would also like to address a subject which, for many people in my home country, is also a very important, yes existential question. Yesterday, it has already been addressed, the mayor of the Wippals at Ballhausplatz, to present here in Vienna the competent Federal Minister personally the urgency of the construction of the Brenner base tunnel. Of course, we are aware – and this has already been mentioned several times today – that each ministry must now examine its expenditure even more carefully, but in this case it is not about this, but it is about the fact that a previously promised infrastructure project is now finally to be realized. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I am really pleased with the statement made today by Commissioner Kallas, who confirmed the Brenner Base Tunnel as a European No. 1 project. I also expect a similar voice from the Austrian Minister for Transport. It must be clear to us that the European Union will not see forever if we do not have a unanimous opinion on this important issue in Austria. For 20 years now, we have been working for this tunnel in Tyrol, and a new deterioration in the construction start would be a fatal sign towards Brussels. As a Tyrolean, how can we expect an EU presence in questions of transit as an Austrian, if we move the Brenner Base Tunnel project, which it co-financed, to the storage track again? The existing railway line dates back to 1867, has already reached its capacity limits and cannot cope with a modern shift from road to rail. For example, did you know that a freight train from the Bavarian border to the Italian state border is on average with only 17.6 kilometres, since much of the time is lost with routing activities and the changeover to different locomotive and electricity systems? In short, if you want to achieve sustainable relief for the inhabitants of the Inn and Wipptal, there is no alternative to the Brenner Base Tunnel. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the protests yesterday in Vienna and last Friday on the Brenner motorway were therefore more than justified. An immediate start of construction is therefore a command of the hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e17980	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18001	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is now about saving, and the plan is to save around 0.4 percent of work and social expenditure by 2014. The danger involved is that the back door will be saved, especially for people who need the funds. For example, the reliefs are saved. Incontinence products, cures are reduced or no longer promoted. The same is true of contribution increases in light-driving wheelchairs. There are different areas. It is precisely where it lies in the country's competences that it is cut short, which is massively shortened. The ‘Action 500’ is also an action that has been deleted. I don't know if you're aware that many projects are no longer being funded. This means that only those projects that have a real indirect relation to work will be supported. Not only disabled people are affected, but also people who are older, and this will affect all of us. Now I want to talk about the care money, because there are certainly some surprises coming to us. The care allowance is already very low anyway. According to the poverty conference, the value of the care allowance has fallen by 21.6 percent since 1993, which was announced at the poverty conference. Also the care allowance level 1 – we speak about 154,20 € – should normally be 244,22 €, you would have adjusted it annually. This means a loss of value of 21 percent. In particular, the Court of Auditors has strongly criticized the way in which the care money is handled. The care allowance can cover the lower levels in about 20 percent of the needs – 20 percent! At the upper levels, around 60 percent of expenditure is covered. Since we got the care money, it's only been valorized three times. There were three of them. Let's get up. There is a lot of discussion about this. Especially with regard to the care allowance, older people are often held to give the money to their grandchildren, so give it to them. But what happened with regard to the mortgage banks? There are money spent on the other hand, which we absolutely miss in the care. To the economic package: Many people think that while economic packages are being made in favour of the banks, they are not for care, no one really is thinking about how the disabled people and the older people are doing with us. As far as capital taxes are concerned, they are 1.3 percent compared to the EU average in Austria. If we now only agree to the average – and I am speaking only of the average – of 5.5 percent of the EU, we would have an increase of €4 to 5 billion, and we could achieve a great deal with these revenues. Think – you are now asked – above all, what will happen to you. This will affect all of us. That's why I'm asking: Courage for change! The aim is to: Social balance and inclusion, for all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18072	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18093	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief correction to Mr Jannach's statement. He said that the press release “Budget: Farmer's Federation after meeting with Pröll kleinlaut" would come from me. – No, I’m not a member of the Farmers’ Federation, so I don’t know if he’s small. I don't know who this broadcast is from. I think it's an APA broadcast. I don't want to beautify myself with foreign feathers. Much has already been said about the Federal Financial Framework Act. It's about the frame. We now know what will be possible, what will not be possible. All possible assumptions – very many events, very much not happening – have already been made. However, I must repeat one statement, namely that of Mr Grossruck. I do not like to contradict a colleague, but Mr Großruck has meant that in his community he has beautiful, large businesses, and they create jobs. – As far as d’accord is concerned. It is important to him that the municipal tax comes, and what else they pay on taxes is his meat. Mr Grossruck, this is not what I wanted, and this is not the case, especially with the Social Democrats, because the jobs are for workers who produce excellent products there, who are producing value added but who, through their excellent work, also generate incomes and profits. The workers pay their taxes on time at the latest. Why not also the entrepreneurs? That's fair, and that's not meaty. [[Call for the call.]] - That's it. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there have already been all kinds of departments, all kinds of ministries. Hie and there have speakers I should like to draw attention to the situation of the local authorities. The following is still not clear to me, Mr State Secretary: The strategy report – I have already said it in the Committee – is on page 6, countries and municipalities are invited to consolidate, and on page 7 it is already much sharper: ‘It is beyond question that countries and communities must also make a consolidation contribution.’ My question: How can a community that can no longer compensate for its budget make a consolidation contribution? And if it is true what President Mödlhammer announces today in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” then 800 communities in Austria are pleaded. That's more than a third. I believe that even more communities are pleading than just a third, because those who have not yet argued are not because they dissolve deposits. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the financial situation of Communities are more than worrying, and I think that this will have to be considered again in the next few months as to how we will keep our communities viable, for consider: Every Austrian, every Austrian lives in a community, and everything that is shortened there fully meets our people outside in the communities. So I ask you to take this into account. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Since so many debt philosophers have already been among us today – we can make debts if we invest when we consume, however, we should not do and so on – I would now like to give you an example of debt that needs to be done, but for which no one can do anything. My home community, the Meran des Mühlviertel, Schwerberg – no, that's not a joke: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] Shares of earnings in 2010, estimate, 2 981 000, fixed benefits, without any of them being affected by anyone in the municipality, 3 348,000. Under the rule, this means a minimum of 366,000, i.e. debt, because the municipal tax has also broken down and the rest of the household is disappearing – debt for which no one can do anything. Mr State Secretary, I hope that in the next few months we will have the opportunity to consider how we may also be able to give a boost to economics by the fact that the 1.5 billion investment required by the Federal Government and the one billion investment boost required by the Federal Government will be realized. But before we invest, we have to compensate first. Only then can we act again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18175	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18197	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In this financial framework and in this strategy report, the Federal Government has set out a strategy which is divided into three steps, one of which is a triple strategy. First of all, it says that the budget deficit is to be reduced and thus a balanced budget is to be ensured in the long term; second, that one wants to ensure economic growth, maintain or expand employment, while at the same time protecting and maintaining the social system as a location and a productive factor; and third, that is to make fundamental structural reforms. – That's what this triple strategy is called here. I call it less “strategy”, but there are three goals that have been defined. It is not a strategy, but it is three objectives that can be pursued. It is probably even necessary to pursue. The question, however, is how to achieve these three objectives, ladies and gentlemen, and I would also like to draw attention to the comments of Mr Oellinger, and also to say that I believe that, especially in the current phase of uncertainty, the euro crisis, in which many people are afraid of their savings, are afraid of an economic crisis, must be very careful in order not to save heavily on expenditure through a strategy that has the objective of increasing revenue through massive tax increases, to run the risk that the recession or the economic downturn will only be properly forced, just as is going to happen in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can seriously assume that Greece will repay the debt in this form, because Greece will be slumbering through this savings package, through these massive cuts into a recession, which will only reinforce the economic chaos that prevails there. Our task and our goal must be to ensure that all the consolidation measures necessary to ensure that at the same time we guarantee economic growth, social security and jobs for the future and ensure that we do not suffer the fate of Greece. This is all the more important in the context of this triple strategy, which I have mentioned here, because the starting point of this strategy, these figures and these objectives is a Wifo forecast, which is expected to have an average growth of 1.8 percent per year between 2010 and 2014, that unemployment will remain stable at about 5.7 per cent and inflation will remain below 2 per cent during these years until 2014. I ask you: What is the case, then, if this Wifo forecast does not occur, if we are only properly forced to act by continuing the crisis? This is the case for the Federal Government not to lose this from the perspective and to continue to ensure economic growth despite economic constraints, because economic growth always means jobs and thus also means social security. Finally, I would like to quote the German Federal Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, who has defined three kinds of people in a book he wrote in 2007. He wrote first of all about normal people, second of people with a criminal vein – and third of investment bankers. He divides humanity into these three groups. We must be careful that we do not leave the first group, namely the “normal people”, the workers, the social service providers, the third group, namely the investment bankers, unscathed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18257	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18278	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They all know the saying: Money makes you happy if you look forward to having it when you need it. To look at it in good time – in the form of the Federal Financial Framework Act – is a command of the hour so that we can reach where we have to arrive in 2014 in order to ensure stability again. What is our task, especially as mandates? Our task is to secure prosperity for the next generations. However, the fact is that we are currently experiencing one of the highest tax and tax rates in Austria, 43 percent. But this is not enough to cover expenditure. So there's saving will. For example, I experienced savings in the opposite sense on 24 May. September 2008. I came home after an evening event, turned the TV on, and it was just the live broadcast of the National Council meeting. I call the topics completely worthless: Ms Rudas called for the abolition of study fees, and FPÖ called for VAT to be reduced to food – of course to the delight of the flat-rate farmers. So much for the FPÖ agricultural policy. Then proposals were made in favour of the hacker scheme, which exceeded, and pensions were increased at maximum speed. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Wrong!]] It was distributed so to speak, if I may call it so, and it was populism pure. In the end, I asked myself the question: Who's gonna pay for all this? The answer is clear: They're the boys, they're the taxpayers of tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did it cost?]] A budget at the expense of the future, that can't be in practice! As one of the younger Members here, I ask for more materiality in the debate on the economy. I call for a fair discussion. [[Abg. May. Stefan: 13 billion debts!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It will certainly be difficult for the sensitive areas – I call agriculture, social affairs, health and family – to achieve the goals, but we also have to overcome that in certain things that are not necessary where we say in Neudeutsche: Nice to have! put on the lever. However, I also think it is important that we inform the people about the current budgetary situation and raise their awareness of it. I would like to confirm that: The information campaign of our Minister of Finance is exactly the right one in which he has spectacular where we stand financially. [[Abg. May. Stefan: “Right!”]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] But let's not talk about saving! You're right: If we also talk about new growth, we talk about renewable energy, we talk about green jobs, we talk about new opportunities! Many of my previous speakers have already mentioned this and done so. Finally, I would like to write an example from my home community. A project aimed at promoting renewable energy and value added for the region is under way. It is a windwheel project with four windshields. The dedication was decided in the municipal council. Only one group voted against. Many will say: Yes, they were the greens, they are against such things anyway, against larger wind farms! – Wrong, it was the FPÖ. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Yes, we also know why!]] Do you know with what argument? - Here someone could earn something! I'll tell you: With envy, we will not master this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18380	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18401	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! To the Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014: I don't see any significant savings in the league. The municipalities and countries will be asked to pay the costs; and The farmers are the diligent citizens and the small and medium-sized enterprises that form the backbone of the domestic economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The banks are still in the throat, in the same breath the taxpayer gets the money back out of the pocket. This is not a policy that we approve of liberals. Rather, it should be so, ladies and gentlemen, that it is worth being diligent and economical. It should not be done like this federal government, which constantly punishes those who are diligent, and rewards those who go with foreign capital and pay hard tax money to the financial sharks without sufficient control. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrian taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, must be liable for debts and debts that they have not made, because the politicians in the EU, but also this Federal Government, are not able to create framework conditions for the speculators to put forward a bar. Banks should again reflect on their core task and not speculate in the periphery, while the citizens pay the bill for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18450	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18471	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Previewing over five-year budget periods I think is something very, very intelligent and meaningful, because no one can believe that it is really possible to plan serially in as short a period as one year. I believe that, when we think about five-year periods, we need to raise a very high level of flexibility in this five-year framework of the Federal Financial Framework Act. I would like to support this by two examples. On the one hand, we are dealing with the issue of the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. It is known to all of us that we are miles away from fulfilling our greenhouse gas obligations and have very, very much to do. In the preview, I do not find the many measures that need to be put in place in order to really achieve the objective, nor do I find criminal payments that may come upon us. One can argue that the Kyoto period runs from 2008 to 2013, i.e. until really calculated and calculated, it is 2015, and such penalty payments will definitely strike only later. But, as I said, I think we will have to have some flexibility, especially because, as I believe, it makes sense to invest in measures such as energy efficiency, thermal renovation and others, to invest here in the country, because this creates value creation, because it brings jobs here, and because it is simply useful measures to increase the quality of life of people and reduce the operating costs that people have to pay. The thermal renovation is a truly wonderful example of this. In this phase of the Federal Financial Framework Act, the Kyoto successor protocol will also fall, with still difficult to say what measures will be taken in international compensation, in adaptations, in greenhouse gas reduction and what will be necessary for payments. The climate summit in Cancún is not really included in the budget. Secondly, on the issue of development cooperation: Even here we are pretty off-track to formulate it very friendly if we actually in 2010 0.51 percent of gross national income for Official Development Assistance should be budgeted. We know recently that we are at 0.3 percent in 2009 and the target for 2015 will be very difficult to achieve. The budget framework by 2014 is already quite close to the 2015 mark. In this short period of time, in this one year, the amount of money to be spent, which will then be missing, I think I need a great deal of flexibility, especially because, due to the figures and because of the crisis, EU Commissioner for Development Piebalgs has proposed that, before the UN Summit to the MDGs in September in New York, the European Member States should continue to be obliged to develop a stage plan, as they will reach 0.7 percent by 2015. With the current wording in the Federal Financial Framework Act, we are more trying the square of the circle than the achievement of an internationally binding goal. In conclusion, I think it would be very useful to consider this budgetary perspective, which we now have, in addition to an instrument on much longer previews over one or two generations, because I believe that very many measures are not at all short-term, not even in ten or 15 years, let alone serious to budget in a legislative period. It is quite clear that measures in the areas of health prevention, nutritional awareness and healthy exercise over the duration of a generation would save a lot of money in curative medicine. It is clear that a good training of children and young people today will bring well-trained, self-confident adults tomorrow and will not require a lot of follow-up costs of poor training, for example. Investments in renewable energy, for example, will help to continue to have energy security and to be more or less self-sufficient even after the time of “Peak Oil” or “Peak Gas”. I wish a generation of politicians for us that it might then have the instruments in hand to be able to deal with this wide-ranging flexibility and wide-ranging preview. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18538	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18560	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bayr, in your very ambitious remarks, I can only give you the right to say that cuts, cuts in investment in the future and in future generations, and especially in our key areas of green jobs, renewable energies, are anything but future ones that they cannot have place there. That's the challenge. In this Federal Financial Framework Act, we cannot yet perceive where the priorities are set. This will only be the case in the autumn. We only see where the trip should go. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at that, you can see it at federal level until 2014 The following: There are €2.8 billion more tax revenue per year and €3.4 billion of savings as a target. For me as a Member of Parliament, the central question arises when one looks at this perspective: Will the tax increases actually be more fair, more tax justice so that we can control Austria so that we can further develop Austria in that direction that preserves, improves and secures the quality of life in that country – or will the social sheath continue to disperse? This is the challenge, and there will be strong and hot debates in this House that we will be holding. It will also be the main task for savings: If savings are to be saved, you will have to be careful not to destroy the opportunities of labour markets, local jobs, regional development by saving the wrong place by disseminating the burden and the burden in Austria unevenly. On this occasion I would like to address an area which has hardly been discussed here so far. I am quite surprised because I have expected farmers' Federal President Grillitsch to come out of here and give a fight against ex-agricultural minister Pröll. That is what you, Mr Grillitsch, have tried to address informally and via the media in recent weeks, namely: What about the reduction in agricultural subsidies? Are minus 3.6 percent, 77 million € less, ambitious in the first year? And that's supposed to go up to 160 million euros. Where are you going to be saved? – Good question, but no answer so far. No representative of the Federal Government has yet made it clear what his idea is of where to save the agricultural budget. There were only general lip confessions to anything possible. Mr Mayer also mentioned the green energy, the wind and similar things – yes, we are on the same line together, not a question. Upper Austria is leading. Because I am looking at Mr Bartenstein: We have also managed in Upper Austria to decouple economic growth from energy consumption. There has been rising economic growth in the last three or four years, while at the same time stable or even declining energy use. That is energy efficiency, and these are measures that bring something. There must be no cuts in this area. At this point I also say stone and clear from a green point of view: Reductions in the agricultural environment programme in the area of services leading precisely to ecologisation and sustainable food production, also from the point of view of job security in rural areas, farms, regions, villages, local economic contexts, are counterproductive. Therefore, it will be a very important debate to look at the reduction in the agricultural budget to cut short where privileges now exist – privileges of large land owners such as no ceilings on agricultural investment promotions, for example, as is the case in the agricultural industry at present. There are no limits! There are massive millions of means of taxation being wasted. These are tax funds, even if they are EU funds; indeed, we are net payers, we pay them to the EU and get them back from there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] - Please? [[Abg. Eßl: We do not have an agricultural industry in Austria!]] Oh, we don't have an agricultural industry! Mr Eßl, your idea of what industry is or not – we will make an excursion. We can do that. [[Abg. Eßl: We did that 14 days ago!]] You were in the U.S., I know. [[Abg. Eßl: This is an agricultural industry!]] The American conditions are quite different, this is American agricultural industry. We also have them in Europe. And we know the counties, we know the royal houses that disburse agricultural subsidies. That would be the moment of truth, that is the sample for the Minister of Agriculture, whether he is ready in the crisis to debate the justice of the distribution of agricultural subsidies at last, to demand them in Europe, and to finally end all agricultural export subsidies, which are only distorting competition, to the detriment of developing countries that consume and rave millions of taxpayers. That is where it belongs, Mr Eßl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18631	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18652	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Financial Framework Act gives us the opportunity to make a budget preview for the next four years. It is a special law because it is unique in Europe, but it is important to make a medium-term preview especially in this moving period. The specificities are that flexibility is given, but also that ceilings are set. And this is a certain challenge that ministers, the individual ministers responsible for the department, must face. The budget is characterised by the idea of saving, by the task to save, by intelligent savings. For me, intelligent saving means giving up unnecessary expenditure, limiting less important expenditure, but saving intelligently means not meeting individual groups alone, or not meeting individual groups twice or several times. Mr Pirklhuber, Mr Jannach, you have spoken about agriculture. We are negotiating and deciding today. You can rely on it, we will negotiate in the autumn when it comes to the budget, good for the farmers and so that – as always – we will also bring a good result home. I also trust the government that it will create this spatula, that we will save, but still remain innovative. The future of our country, the future of our children depends on what we decide, what we decide now and what framework we provide. That is why, I believe, it is possible to make reforms in several areas. I call the health sector, the hospitals, the care insurance, I call the administrative reform. Even the aggregation of the country elections to a single date would bring an innovation boost and a savings boost, I claim. We want a sustainable policy. I imagine, just like Mr Mayer, that there is no second 24. September 2008 may be given if we really want to pursue sustainable policies, where in one day many things have been decided that were questionable and that have burdened the future of the budget accordingly. We want a sustainable policy based on the principles of the eco-social market economy. And I trust the Minister of Finance that these objectives will also be implemented in a competent manner. That is why I am seeking the approval of this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18696	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18717	Mr President. High house! Today we are to adopt the Federal Financial Framework Act. We certainly cannot vote in favour of this. The BZÖ has made many good and constructive proposals over the last one and a half years, but you have not taken any of them. Nevertheless: In 2007, the Court of Auditors also made 200 proposals on how wise it is to deal with all these reforms. - Nothing! You have not implemented anything of it, you have only used and evaluated working groups. Do you want to fight against unemployment with these working groups? There you are, however, on lost posts. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Actions are required! Finally, take correct reforms! Put the health insurance funds together! Finally put the pension insurance institutions together! Finally, make the administrative reform felt, instead of raising taxes and bleeding out the middle class! Especially one: If I look at the family compensation fund, which is one of the central instruments, I have to say that it is not even mentioned in the strategy report under the heading “family”. I'm really wondering: Which benefits should be removed? How to reorganise the family compensation fund? What does the Federal Government intend to do with the family compensation fund? With regard to municipalities, it is to be said: They are given many new tasks each year in the event of a steady decline in revenue. This bill cannot go on. That is where I appeal to your house mind to finally stop this reform. The Federal Government must finally stop fighting only with headlines. Finally, there are solutions. I would like to say a few words about agriculture. It's already crazy what's going to happen – there I am with my colleague Pirklhuber: How are you supposed to be saved? But one, Mr Pirklhuber: Put away the agricultural subsidies, so that we would be... – The export subsidies do away, we would shoot ourselves massively in our own knees. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Export subsidies!]] That, I think, can't have been meant like that. If I see that today's President of the Chamber of Commerce Leitl misses the discussion on savings and insists on reforms, then I really wonder why the Federal Government does not finally become active. Even the EU Commission estimates that Austria is much worse than the Federal Government is doing in the strategy report. From the practical experience I know that many people have been coming from the bank for about two months and changing their balances from euro to dollar. You must have heard this alarm signal, but there are no acts. That's why I'm asking you to think about it again. What the economic forecast of the Wifo of January 2010, on which the Strategy Report is based, is absolutely all that has happened, but the crisis of Greece is not included, and in particular: Portugal, Spain, possibly Italy – there are still crises. Please, grab. Stop it now! Let's put up acts and stop with headlines!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18766	Next speaker: Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18787	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important key data on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 has already been discussed in detail by my previous speakers. A mix of expenditure and revenue measures is intended to reduce the budget deficit and reduce the overall Maastricht deficit to EU-compliant values. As already mentioned, the financial framework contains expenditure limits for the ministries, but no budget details yet. These questions will be discussed and resolved by autumn. In the media, however, speculations about new – less secret or secret – government savings plans have now been overlooked. With titles and headlines such as “Hitparade des Graens” is advertised from the opposition side and frightened the citizens. The fact is that this is quite a part of a political field of action. In principle, however, I believe that a crisis is needed to work together and to take the necessary steps in the crisis together. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, let me clarify the following: Not lax financial policy, not the social state and its services are responsible for increasing debt, but rather is the financial crisis caused by speculation caused by the recession. As pointed out by previous speakers, our position in the international comparison is actually half-favourable. The fact is that our general government deficit in 2009 amounted to 3.4 percent. This made us fourth among the euro countries. In this context, I should like to quote an expert who has called on the government to adopt budgetary consolidation as an adviser: On the other hand, it is important to ensure that economicly important consumer demand is not weakened by socially unbalanced mass taxes. Instead, the focus is on taxes that help to avoid future economic crises, which strengthen the hardly existing tax progression and/or, above all, go to the savings ratio. Capital taxes are best suited for this. We will certainly take care of this suggestion by the experts during the forthcoming negotiations. It will also be a matter of making the necessary consolidation measures more responsible, socially just and forward-looking. Last but not least, those who have caused the crisis and are now being saved by means of measures will also have to make a contribution to consolidation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a great deal of fingertips in all consolidation measures with regard to the long-term secure financing of the additional tasks of the municipalities. Some previous speakers have pointed out that many communities are currently financially in one of the most difficult situations for years. The fact is that, as mayor, I know what I am talking about, falling revenue and rising expenditure will mean that no money will be available for investment in the foreseeable future. That this danger is extremely realistic, we recognize with a look at the German municipalities: Here the crisis has already become a manifest situation. Let us, therefore, make all our efforts together to ensure that the communities are helped accordingly! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18844	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18866	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today we have heard a lot about savings, debt, reductions, framework conditions and federal financial framework law. Ladies and gentlemen! Saving is important and necessary, but it must be fair. In the media one could already learn a lot, yesterday a long list appeared in a daily newspaper from which one could read that for example the 13. Family aid is to be abolished or deleted. It was introduced only two years ago and really benefits families in September. The families need the 13. Family allowance, because the start of school and also the start of kindergarten are simply important. The families just need support. The longer version of the childcare allowance – the most popular variant that is accepted by the majority of mothers – should also be deleted. Higher taxes on 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary is to be introduced, wage tax is to be increased and health benefits are to be reduced and higher self retention reintroduced. This list could only have been the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, children are our future, and the family is the germ cell of society, but exactly that is where the savings will start. Finally, the question of the proportionality of expenditure must also be asked. While the Republic of Austria is sinking billions in the Aegean, of which we are not expected to see again, the needy in their own country must pay and continue to suffer further cuts in support. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] For these reasons, the new draft budget is more than worrying and cannot get our support. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian taxpayer has to deal with the crisis, and the next one is determined.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18923	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e18944	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak briefly about the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, Mr Schenk and Mr Stübing. In this application, the Federal Government is invited to take the possible measures to ensure the financing of the Austrian... – Ouch! [[Abg. Grosz: He's not brought in yet!]] [[Abg. Grosz: I'm only after four speakers, but I'm bringing him in, don't worry!]] - We'll do that free of charge. I am therefore referring to a motion for a resolution which will be tabled – I can predict – in which the Federal Government is called upon to take action. I can say that we consider this to be an essential concern, but that the BMUKK is at least regarded as a reliable partner and has so far been the only venue which has clearly stated that it will continue to make a contribution of € 73 000. However, it also falls within the scope of the other departments. At the annual general meeting tomorrow, we expect such a commitment, and on the basis of these comments we do not agree with this request. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19005	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19029	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! A lot has already been said about the Federal Financial Framework Act. As a youth and apprentice speaker, of course, I have considered the topics of family and youth, and I note that this is an extremely separable place. – In 2011 it is 234 million €, 2014 it is already 484 million €. This does not result in less than €1.5 billion in savings by the year 2014. It is always so stressed that the youth is the future of Austria or that the youth belongs to support and support, and especially in this important area, the savings fund is so radical. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think that's the wrong signal. This was also criticized by the Chamber of Workers. I'm allowed to quote: The family and youth sector is, in absolute terms, one of the areas most affected by consolidation, although there is an urgent need for investment in the future in this area. There's nothing to add to that. It must be clear that youth is our future, especially as far as apprentices are concerned. Personally, it is a big concern to strengthen the apprentices more. On the other hand, we saw in the tourism industry that there were 1 500 open teaching places in March. That means we have to make this area more attractive so that young people go back to tourism, because I think it's a good training – multifaceted in many ways. From the cook to the waiter, you have everything right up to the hotel manager et cetera. In tourism one must invest, not always save on youth. Finally, I call on the Federal Government to rethink here, and at the same time remind them of its own quote: “How a state develops depends on investment in its youth.” – So take You yourself at the nose, even at the word: Let's invest in youth, and we won't save them to death! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19068	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19089	Mr President. The Secretary of State! High house! The Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 is the major issue today, it has been discussed for hours now – very strongly debated. I think it's also a good way for everyone to understand that needs to be saved. I think that's really clear to everyone here. Only once again I'm excited about how to do this. How will you do that? Will there be tax increases for the Austrians who have been plagued by the media between ÖVP and SPÖ? Or are you going on the hot iron of this republic? What nothing has been heard about in the last few weeks is the administrative reform, these are real structural reforms. I'm just talking to the health insurance companies, of which you can't hear anything at all. There are nine local health telephones and six operating telephones. Perhaps this government is able to make four out of the nine local health telephones – free in the directions possible. I wonder if that might be possible. Would that not save yourself very much, very much money for administration? One would have a uniform administration, and one could give the money to the citizen and the citizen, or one would stop budget holes, which would also be a possibility. All of this makes more sense than leaving these health insurance funds as they are now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But these are just hot iron, and I don't think they're being attacked, as you've seen with this federal government in recent months; it's not the first time in the coalition bed, but it's never been as inactive as this time. The next hot For example, iron would be to impose tax debts. It is true that there are a lot of people in this Republic who are indebted to the Financial Office who are not actually driven in. The next topic would be the in-house executive group KIAB, which would also have to be used more. At least one could pick them up in person. The KIAB really brings something because it fights against illegal foreign employment. I think that would also be a right way to save something here. It will be seen what will happen in the next few weeks, how the Federal Government will do this. It will have to be saved, we see that as well, but for us it would be quite, very important to finally address this hot iron.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19138	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19159	Mr President. The Secretary of State! High house! Skill You remember the big insurrection three weeks ago? – The small baby with almost €24 000 debt, which the Ministry of Finance has expensively advertised in various newspapers. What does the Ministry of Finance have, what else did the Minister of Finance have written about it? Only the interest “cost us more each year than we spend on education, families, internal security or health. ” “Every taxpayer pays around EUR 1 100 today” alone for interest. “The interest rates are not allowed to eat our future,” writes the Minister of Finance. “That’s why we now have to reassess debt – and not increase further.” – Great, the citizen thinks, that’s an announcement, that’s classic. Then you read through the strategy report and look at page 12 – and then you look at page 12 again, then you look at page 12 exactly, and then you come to it that nothing sinks at all, Mr. Molterer, but quite the contrary! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Did you stick to page 12?]] In individual sub-headings, expenditure is falling a little, but in other headings they are increasing by the multiple, Mr Molterer! In total, it is then hoped that the expenditure will rise from €64.5 billion in 2009 to €72.25 billion in 2014 and the federal debt will increase by €45.2 billion. I have therefore allowed myself to bring along my very, very dear, Secretary of State, so that you will not have to “brown” back to several advertising agencies, the new poster that you will be able to advertise from tomorrow – if you do this today – “And when I come to kindergarten, it has become 30,000 euros.” [[The speaker holds a poster in the height]] I'll give you this. You can give this to Mr Finanzminister, then you can save the costs for the advertising agency. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Linder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the government debt will rise from currently € 185 billion to € 230 billion, the interest rate burden from € 7 billion to € 10.6 billion. Interests are higher than net debt. That means we're living on the substance. We take on new debts to be able to pay interest for the old debts at all. This is the financial abyss, ladies and gentlemen. If Mr Pröll has come back and preached again today: 60 percent expenditure savings and 40 percent new taxes – no, ladies and gentlemen, 60 percent savings cannot be said! We will experience 100 percent new taxes in autumn. And that is what you have to answer with this decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19233	Next speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19254	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests on the crowd edge! If you listen to this today, you have to say that what the government parties want to negotiate and plan is unheard-of and irresponsible. Overall, about €1.6 billion will be saved in this red and black savings volume, which is to exist. In contrast, a bank package of € 21.3 billion goes to Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, what is Austria worth to you, what is the Austrian taxpayer worth? – If we listen to this and look at it, then we have to find out that it is nothing worth it – even there seems not to you. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Let's look at what's going on in education, research, art and culture. In 2011, 1.4 per cent will be saved, while 1.4 per cent will also be very high in these quantities. For example, in the “Economic Sheet” you can read: “However, the already established service agreements with the universities must be reintegrated and construction projects stopped.” But obviously nothing is foreseen except construction projects and various renovations. Nothing's here! Ladies and gentlemen, with the most important resources of our country, the youth who is ready to learn, Schindluder will be driven. Nothing's happening. She's a game ball in your make-up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do the families look like? – In the area of work, social affairs, health and families, €0.85 billion are saved, a minus of 2.6 percent. Of course, that doesn't sound like a lot, but with what was not there on plans, minus 2.6 percent is a disastrous bankruptcy statement for our families. In the absence of Mrs. State Secretary – now he is here, Mr. Klubobmann's head – I have to tell you: It is enough for the citizens to be brought back to life again and again! They proclaim large and wide: No threat to the Austrian families! But as we know, it will be different. It will not only be different, it will even be different. And I'm sure we'll be presented with the whole Job Message and all that after the Vienna election. And then the news of you, Mr. Kopf, where you said Austria should not be so self-congratulating. . I tell you, I am complacent when it comes to Austrian taxpayers and citizens. Here I'm complacent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also pleased when it comes to the Austrian families and our youth and when it comes to supporting them. First of all, I have to My citizens take care of, and then I can look over the edge of the plate and discover my mild and, I know what, benevolent veins. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day: If you already want to take money from Austria, the Austrian citizens, think of the old Austrians who are still living in the K. u.k. successor countries. It is time to support even there this old Austrian population – and not with lip confessions when everything is too late.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19339	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19390	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Six sentences – not six pages, six sentences! – are in the strategy report, and we have heard today, where it would be such an important national Council meeting for the future, where we set the course, that the chancellor speaks to the culture, or the vice chancellor. And there I have to say, this is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For our government, therefore, culture is only an ornament, an ornament, negligible, and not what we believe it must be. Culture must be the foundation on which our society stands and on which it builds. - I see a nod here. [[towards the government bank]] I'm glad. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would ask you to continue this to Mr Vice-Chancellor. Austria lives by its great cultural heritage, its unique cultural landscape and its vital cultural life. However, in recent years we have had to experience a great deal in terms of funding in the field of cultural policy. There were on the one hand, we have discussed this, the group sex in the museum temple – the red light points out, ladies and gentlemen – while on the other hand, the Austrian folklore museum in Vienna, one of the largest folklore museums, namely, the largest in all of Europe, is being crushed, fed with bromele as support. You have to fight for survival every day. You can't even afford posters by making exhibitions there. We've already talked about the open-air museum in Stübing today. This is a scandal of the special class anyway. We shall agree to your request, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Another scandal: One has money for an exhibition in the MAK – I have allowed myself to bring the catalogue – under the title “Blumen for Kim Il Sung”, with a glorification of one of the most brutal and humane communist dictators. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a scandal!]] [[Abg. Grosz: And then the North Korean exhibition from – what's his name? What's the country president's name?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at it, for example, a picture with the following wording: “My leader, there’s the front.” – Only so that you know what this is about. And in this catalogue, ladies and gentlemen, our Federal Minister has a regime-glorifying... – Yes, yes. [[Abg. Grosz:... North Korea exhibition of country day President Lobnig!]] He'll know, I suppose. So: In this catalogue, our Federal Minister has written a glorifying guide. For such a thing, you have money, ladies and gentlemen, while on the other hand, as far as the Museum of Art is concerned, you have no money to afford a porter. [[Call to the FPÖ: That's incredible!]] The idea of putting together the two museums of folklore museum and museum of folklore is completely wrong. There are two completely different museums with different programming, and we believe that both must be raised to independent federal museums. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But you also have enough money, for example for the system-compliant artists, who have been willing critics of the opposition for years, especially the FPÖ. One has been very well profiled: for example Norbert Gstrain, who receives a computer, Robert Menasse, who is allowed to buy a notebook at the expense of taxpayers in addition to a factory scholarship. – I mean, these are not Lappalia, that’s a real scandal, especially since we heard from Mr Mayerhofer today that the police don’t even have money to do – what was that? – to pay for a radio. [[Call the FPÖ:A radio!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, you have to reject that. On the other hand, we have no money for training our youth as far as the musical youth is concerned. That's incredible. And if one chooses the excuse that it's supposed to be going to the countries, that's not going to happen, then I have to say: You can also create framework conditions, because it is not possible that a country like Austria with such a great music history has no money for training young people, where we have the world's best orchestra and certainly one of the best opera houses. We also have a Federal Minister who has our federal anthem described. I mean, that's a scandal! The German anthem is a symbol of our identity, and it cannot be allowed to do so. We reject it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This attitude is symptomatic of current cultural policy. The great, identity-building ideas, senses, values, material testimonies of our culture are neglected and made an international one-way spread. We liberals believe that in education and science, this has already been mentioned several times today, but – and I say this now as a cultural speaker of the liberals – must be invested especially in the cultural field. We are here the only ones in the house who stand for it, as well as for what and who we are, what makes us, our culture, is being respected and expanded and thus even later generations in our country have the opportunity to live in a country of culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19510	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19531	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government's budgetary strategy is, in simple terms, in the saving of its own population and in the spending of money, namely the wasting of tax billions, in the mass grave of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, for months now it has been known that the Ministries should also make savings, and there has been intense discussions in which areas should be saved. There has been a strong public debate, but a discussion in the Committee, which messages are to be closed and which are not. There are also areas in the area of Austrian foreign policy which are not as bright as embassies, and an example has already been mentioned by Mr Kitzmüller, the Austrian-Slovene cultural agreement. ==References====External links== In May 2002, it was completed and, as you all know, it is actually the replacement for the lack of international recognition of the German minority in Slovenia. So this is about the still surviving 2,000 to 3,000 AVNOJ victims in today's Slovenia. At that time, it was announced in May that Austria and Slovenia, the democratic Slovenia, will make money available to help this group. After eight years we can take a very sober balance. ==References====External links== In May 2002, not only did this national minority not improve its living situation, but on the contrary: This is still not true of our minority compared to the Italians or the Hungarians, who are very likely to benefit from national minority rights and are generously promoted by Slovenia. The hopes that have been aroused by those concerned, among the 2 000 to 3 000 old Austrians, as they have called Anneliese Kitzmüller, have also been disappointed, and there is still no really sufficient dosage, because the resources used are simply ridiculous. For example, in 2000 the International Association of Freedom Bridges Maribor received €333,83, a year later the Slovenian Gottscheer Association Peter Kosler received €2921, and so the list could be continued at any time. So these are bromies that feed our minority. This is simply a ghastly balance of a policy that, in fact, does not serve the interests of our minority there, but also the interests of our country. And I believe that the Austrian Federal Government should finally take Hungary as a model, where not only does the new Hungarian government support the Hungarian minorities who live in other countries very strongly and decisively. So stop this policy you have pursued so far, a policy that is not oriented to the interests of our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19586	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19607	Mr President. Lords on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am already amazed at the aversion of the Freedom Party to exhibitions about regimes as in China. By the way, I do not think anything of it, but then you must not finance a North Korean exhibition via the great leader Kim Il Sung yourself or with the approval of the President of the State of Carinthia of the FPÖ/FPK/FIK, because that is inconsistent. - That's just for the introduction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, one wonder: you are able to reject a request that you have not even known yet, which has not even been submitted. And here I am actually coming – in conclusion on the day on which we talked about bank package, Greece aid, billions of tax money – on this issue, which is also a major problem, which may not be the whole of Europe, not all of Austria, but my humble homeland Styria. We have a piece of earth in the Styria of one of the ten largest open-air museums in Europe, the largest open-air museum in Austria, the open-air museum in Stübing. This open-air museum, which has been a point of attraction since the 1970s, offers a historical cross-section through the culture of the people, through the rural culture of southern Europe, as we have had to learn through several media today, is massively in financial danger, because five ministries – the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs – cannot agree that, contrary to the billions we have discussed, “can be made available” a sum of €300 000 so that this open-air museum can continue to be preserved in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I therefore want to take place in the next few days, because the curatorial meeting, the foundation meeting of the open-air museum with representatives of the federal states, including the ministries, will take place in the next few days, and this open-air museum will hang in the air today, with a request that the Federal Government finally agree to provide rapid assistance here and thus also to end the discussion once and for all and make a commitment to this open-air museum. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think we could also put an act here, we could send a signal here, we could deal with the subject quickly, and we could help the Austrian open-air museum. I have signals from some Styrian representatives of the government parties that they are quite in favour of agreeing to this too. I would therefore also ask the heads of the political groups of Social Democracy and ÖVP to lift their force of clubs and to place a clear sign here in the National Council in the interests of Styria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19684	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19742	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19764	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke about the open-air museum Stübing. The open-air museum Stübing is located in my constituency, in the district of Graz-Umgegen, in the Greater Graz area. The open-air museum Stübing is not only Austria-wide – the open-air museum Stübing, Mr. Kleine Grosz – but also internationally one of the most famous open-air museums and one of the most renowned folk culture signposts. [[Abg. Grosz: Stüb ing, not Stüberl! Stüb ing!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP]] And I think the financial situation is not for fun. That's what you have to say. But one thing you also have to say: I think we know that in our parliamentary work it is not about deciding on the law of occasion that it is not about Horuck actions. [[Abg. Grosz: This is not a law!]] And it is not enough, even if I estimate the “Small Newspaper” when on the front page – which is bad enough – that we should negotiate for one, two hours on it. We have negotiated, in particular on the part of the ÖVP, on the part of the Styrian Members as a whole, also with our competent ministries. We did not succeed in taking a step further here, because the time was too short – which I understand in part, certainly not either. It is my concern to say, on behalf of our Styrian Members, that we know from the ÖVP MEPs what it means to bear responsibility in a government and to have a partner. And I would like to say that we do not make a request from Coalitionson, which we have prepared. But I would like to say briefly: that the competent departments, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, also the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, have met and, so to speak, wanted to join the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmidein, not only in terms of a joint leadership to look at, evaluate, see what funding is necessary, but also to take action. [[Abg. Grosz: But spend €800 000 on the advertising campaign of Mr Pröll – but no €300 000 have for...!]] It is necessary to negotiate clearly, as has already been said, in order not to bring about a horuck action. We're very sorry that didn't work out. It would have been a good step. We all know what motions for resolutions mean: They are an incentive, a first step to take action. It would have been a good signal. It's a shame. But I think that on the part of the EIA and also by the Styrian Members, we know how important this measure would be. For example, in 2008, the People's department already drew attention to a letter to the competent Federal Minister Dr. Claudia Schmiedgericht and to the need to take action here. If I look at Mr Grosz's request, I have to say the following: It is not clear how long the security should be, because it means that the Federal Government is being asked to take measures as soon as possible and let 300 € flow. [[Abg. Grosz: €300 000!]] That's too little, €300 000, thanks many times. It has not been stated exactly whether for 2011 or 2012. It is not only about 2010, but also about the following years. [[Abg. Grosz: But €800 000 for the Minister of Finance! But for an open-air museum, there is nothing left for tradition!]] We take this matter seriously and we will deal with it together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] It's about an institution, about a piece of folk culture in my district of Graz-Embange. We will continue to negotiate and take sensible measures, Mr Grosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19895	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19916	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Stübing in honour, Mr Colleague, we are also voting in favour. I'm out of Styria myself, it's a beautiful museum. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] But I would like to put the focus back on more global contexts. I think it's not about Stübing in the debate, nor should it be about small things – that's also an important issue – but I would like to turn to the future that has been addressed several times today. [[Abg. Grosz: The little things are important!]] Now the ÖVP is also almost completely present again, it was not there all afternoon. However, Mr Molterer has looked large, state-supporting, forward-looking to the young people who were at the gallery and announces the importance of investing in the future, however important it is that we take savings measures. For months now, the Minister of Finance has been presenting – and it has just been a pleasure to see how much money is spent on it – and citizens have been making us a bad conscience for months, as if we were all guilty of what we are financially doing. But you've actually been involved for years. What we are about to do is not take action in the areas that are important for the future, namely our children and the environment. Something is done neither in education nor in the social sector. The families have been addressed several times. I miss that very much. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Their solidarity is obviously enough for the banks, but not beyond. It does not go beyond the national borders either. In a very good article, political scientist Helmut Kramer Austria is referred to as “behind national”. And as a ‘international’ one must also describe what is happening budgetaryly in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in development policy. Austria is clearly not responsible for the global context, the global crises, the climate crisis, the food crisis and the financial crisis. I think it is very worrying that we continue to gallop with ignorance and narrowness and simply do not take into account the really global problems, which are simply not a topic, and that we are saving in a place that has nothing anyway and should not work with anything. Especially in development policy, the reduction of nothing even less means that no action can be taken at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are rumors in the house that the foreign disaster fund will no longer be increased if the money goes out, which is now inside. That is to say, you assume that no more international disasters are happening or that the Austrians are anyway as happy as they have been so far, that as a government you can save yourself to do something to help. It will also be interesting to learn to what extent the promised funds for Haiti – 8 million in contrast to 32 million donated by Austrians – have actually been flown. I'd like to find out. I should therefore like to remind you that there is also a 12-stage development policy action plan. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. ==References====External links== Krainer.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now you stop!]] – Yeah, maybe you can listen very briefly. Thank you. There will be an EU action plan on development policy to be complied with. I would like to know how you continue to deal with nothing in development policy. A little memory: Gender budgeting will be introduced in 2013. I am missing any measures or considerations to this end. I would like to ask for this urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e19990	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20011	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I think we have once again seen a model example of how it should not be possible to avoid dealing with the legitimate interests of citizens and institutions such as the museum in Stübing here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! The request of the BZÖ is of course supported by us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Even though I very much appreciate Mrs Steibl and very much like to cooperate with her, I find it very interesting which excuses are being sought in order not to have to agree on opposition requests. I have also already received a message of another request made by Mr Deimek, a request from me concerning the 110kV line in Graz and Graz surroundings. The Styrian Landtag – SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, KPÖ – and the municipal council in Graz have voted unanimously for this measure, across all party borders. District politicians stand on the streets and fight for the citizens who do not find a place here in this House – and I now look very consciously towards SPÖ, because I have received some signals from the other government group that they could have gone along with it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and especially Josef Cap, this is not the new parliamentaryism that this House deserves.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20058	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 660 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the previous draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft was also adopted by a majority in third reading. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Fichtenbauer, colleagues, on the future of the Austrian German army. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. That's gonna change!]] Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues, on sufficient budget resources to achieve a 4-percent R&D quota by 2020. If you support this request, I would ask for a sign. - He doesn't find a majority. The application is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on the prevention of unnecessary use of funds by building stoppage and the postponement of the project ‘Relocation of the 110 kV high-voltage line Graz-Werndorf’. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The request is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:48:38]] 5. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2010/1 (III-108/690 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20132	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Lap. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20160	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Justice! High house! We are discussing the first report of the Court of Auditors from 2010. That is to say, the work in the Court of Auditors is progressing very quickly. I want to deal with the high school sector in Austria in my comments. It is a growing sector that was founded 15 years ago and had 28 000 students at the beginning of 700 and in 2007/2008. The number of students is increasing in order to ensure that this range of education offers an adequate and effective training for many young people in our country. The technical colleges offer very practical training, which focuses on technology and business, and above all also contribute to permeability in the education system. The current report also shows the drop-out rate. I would like to make a small critical comment on the Court of Auditors' graphics, because it is pointed out that the drop-out rate would be very high for those people who come from a workmaster's training, namely, 40 percent. This is, of course, a very high percentage of the number of students who come from the master's training to the colleges, but with the numbers I mentioned before, I do not think this can be in contact with. This Court of Auditors report also states that the financial contribution of the economy has not been achieved. It is important to call on the economy to: In addition to the public authorities, municipalities, countries and the Federal Government, which set up funds for this purpose, the aim is to ensure that the economy is able to support this field of practical training in our education system. One of our own points in this Court of Auditors report is that there are, of course, a lot to clean up in Carinthia. A site optimization has been proposed because it is so that at different locations there are the same offers. It can be seen again that in Carinthia there is a need to ensure that the means of taxation are used efficiently in all areas. In this sense, I think that there is still a lot of work in this federal state. The high-school sector in Austria is a success story, and the Court of Auditors is right in this success story in its present report.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20208	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20229	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker, Mr Lapp, has already reported very impressively on the subject of high school system in Austria. It is a success story – and I would like to add that to some points from Lower Austria. But first of all, Mr President Dr. Moser, and your team, thank you. The report is in the usual way well prepared, prepared and also shows the critical points which, of course, not only need to be reported and read, but also to be implemented. The report goes from 2004 to 2008. Today we write the year 2010 and we know after a conversation with Mrs. Minister of Science Beatrix Karl that many things have already been evaluated and implemented. I would like to see these reports at shorter intervals, discuss them, and finally report on them. It's actually a success story. For in Krems alone, university and non-university research is available for the first time next year. At the door they work together at Campus Tulln. On Campus Krems, a new focus has also been placed on Life Science, where we encourage research projects on this topic. As I said, the University and Research Centre is being built on Campus Tulln. The cancer research and treatment centre will be opened at Campus Klosterneuburg in the course of the environmental impact assessment – also in Wiener Neustadt. We are here in Lower Austria and stretch a arc from St. Pölten via Tulln to Wiener Neustadt. This is quite simply a development that we need in parallel to university education in order to be able to grow the wide range of the challenge of everyday work, of international competition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This report also makes it quite clear that we need some food. We have to continue, we have to work on it. Ladies and gentlemen! Education and research services today are the economic value added of tomorrow. I know today we are only talking more about saving and how we can prevent and prevent worse. But it is also a question of investing meaningfully where we can reap sustainability in education. and research, where we do not have the figures on the table today, but only in a few years, perhaps decades. Only in this way will it be possible for us in Austria to keep pace with businesses, industry and, ultimately, jobs for our young people, for the next generation. That's our job. And that is why I very much hope that our science minister Beatrix Karl, as she has done before, will continue to be very careful and evaluate in the future and where it is necessary, will work forward-looking and sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20287	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20308	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Thank you for this report, which you have produced in a familiar and quality way. If you are dedicated to the university chapter – the funding of universities is autonomous and the Court of Auditors has looked at how this has affected the total cost – then it is noted that the universities have failed to meet the challenge of the care conditions - I would say - which are very questionable. Although more staff and more personnel costs have been incurred, care conditions have not improved. For example, the Vienna University of Economics still has 330 students on a professor, the University of Vienna 190, and in Graz it is 180. When I listen to the lohudelia that are already sung in the ÖVP to the new Minister of Science and see that her only intention is to introduce access rules, I think that this is a completely wrong approach and will certainly not find the agreement of the Freedom Party. We have neither come to believe that it is an Austrian specification to make premium payments in such a way that there is neither a documentation on it nor any established criteria for it. That's nothing new. This is happening continuously in the ÖIAG, and this procedure has also been chosen in the rectorates. This has been criticized by the Court of Auditors. The Minister of Labour has come up with the following: Well, I can't do that, that's autonomous. - Well, that's what it's supposed to be. One thing I would like to mention, perhaps you will be interested in this, Mr President: Today, we have discussed the Federal Financial Framework Act, and I can tell you that no one except us has mentioned that savings potentials that the Court of Auditors has calculated in the 315 points have not been included in this law, that they have not even been caught up in the strategy report. It would be as important at a time like this to take advantage of these savings potentials as well. It's high time to do something. I do not like to mention the word “administrative reform” at all, because it is somehow a killer’s phrase, but it must be addressed to tackle it. But obviously the political will is missing. We prefer to give many billions to Greece before we take care of our own people, and I would like to say that the Court of Auditors has ideas about how it is going. Let's just do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20359	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20381	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I too would like to thank you for this report. As always, it is very precise and very stimulating. We have also seen in many discussions in the Committee that it is quite possible to reach a consensus across parties, and that it would be possible to further develop our education system as a whole on the basis of these reports. I can take a few things out of your report that you have done about vocational schools. What particularly fascinated me here – and this is quite a positive example – is that you have spoken about a best practice model, which leads to quality management in schools. If we hear the reports of the last two days, in which an OECD report expresses itself very, very critical of the situation in our schools, of teacher training, of the conditions at our schools, then if we were to take this model, we would have to change a lot in a positive direction, because you have found that this model has led to fewer educational failures, and I think we need to continue working here. In this context, I would also like to remind you – as you can see from your report – that the fact that students at these schools come to school by one year, two years too late – the so-called career losses – totals additional costs of € 67 million. € 67 million of people's economic valuelessly spent money! Here there would really be savings potential, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if you were at last to implement these requirements. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In this context, we would like to remind you once again of what we discussed in the Constitutional Committee on Administrative Reform: Here's the lever on! The repetition of classes alone costs the taxpayer €300 million, in addition to the human suffering it causes the students and the parents. So here you could really save if you were to trust yourself with your country's princes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The modularization of vocational education, I believe, would also be an interesting aspect. They say that, unfortunately, there has not been an expected and hoped reduction in teaching professions. In Austria this is a particular problem, because here the impact of the economy is simply too strong. The vocational school directors complain very much about the fact that new teaching professions are constantly being ‘expressed’ to them: We should have less instead of more! And if you can see from your report that there are 70 apprenticeships with fewer than 20 apprentices, and they are still being taught in different federal states, then you know that there is fire on the roof. There are other areas that can be taken up in this report. I believe that the issue of school supervision is important and central to us, with which we still have to deal. It is important that we implement these requirements, that we address this and that we at least remove the problems we have in our schools. Every year 40,000 seats are irresponsible for the economics of the people – apart from the educational community! 8,000 trainees per year who only have compulsory schooling are, please, irresponsible! In this way, we will be dealing with the problems of education in Austria. don't solve it. That is what the Greens and the Court of Auditors are telling you in this context! That is what the Court of Auditors tells you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20444	The next speaker was Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20465	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I too should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors very much. It is important to note how often the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has been mentioned in the debate today or how often the Court of Auditors has been referred to. It might also be time for the Ministries – and here I appeal to the government parties – to implement the recommendations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Thank you. The care conditions at Austria's universities are often miserable. In the academic year 2008/2009, around 191 students attended a professor or 32 students at the University of Vienna. The situation is even worse, for example, at the Vienna University of Economics: These showed “the worst care relations of all Austrian universities by far, ” as the report states. In 2008, about 331 students came to a professor or about 45 students. The Court further criticises that, although the degree of achievement by individual rectorate members was neither documented nor quantified, premiums were paid to rectors and vice-rectors who were bound by the achievement of certain objectives. – These are states that remind us of the ÖBB and the ASFINAG, ladies and gentlemen. However, the President of the Court of Auditors also announced to the Committee that he would report on the impact of the study contributions. It can be assumed that the study contributions are useful and that this will also be reflected in the report. Ladies and gentlemen! This report on the status quo at two important local associations is to be understood as a warning: A lot of work is waiting for Federal Minister Karl! It is high time to become active because budget development makes it impossible to catch up with the increase in student numbers. There is an urgent need for action, as the student protests, which by the way cost us almost €1.5 million, show. The quality of Austrian higher education must be preserved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20506	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20527	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost exactly 17 years ago, the establishment of the technical universities was decided here – without the votes of the Freedom Party – and in the Stenographical Protocols it is re legible that this decision has partly happened very euphorically, for various reasons: whether the improved permeability especially for graduates of the dual system or whether it is the presumption that the colleges would offer what the companies dream of. It was also apparent in the protocols that the study fees were always the subject of: that no tuition fees should be charged for the universities. – As we know, this is history today, but I am still pleased that at least in Burgenland the college students do not have to pay any tuition fees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Not in the Styria either!]] The Court of Auditors criticises a number of points, such as the dubious evaluation or the flawed monitoring, the high drop-out rate among students without Matura or the low participation of the economy in the issue of financing. Quality assurance is undoubtedly the basis for the financing and development plans, and there must therefore be no compromises in terms of education, where there are opportunities for the labour market. The permeability was central motivation for the decision to set up the technical universities, and it is also evident that above all social permeability in the colleges is greater than in the universities. The high drop-out rate of non-maturants studying is a special challenge. I think that the path “Teaching with Matura” will improve this problem in the medium term and will be able to remedy appropriate preparatory courses until then – at least at some colleges there will be successes in this regard. The cost participation of the economy may have been too euphoric, because why should the economy pay? – She also gets the graduates without participation! This question, I think, can be seen in two parts: on the one hand, with regard to higher education and on the other, with regard to research. The training, as I believe, is undoubtedly the task of the state that research works with the economy. Funding programmes are important, including evaluations and monitoring. One problem is that these support programmes are only sporadic; a certain regularity would be beneficial. I think it must be a concern for the colleges, the college board or the relevant ministries to keep their main clients, and therefore I think that the problems raised will also be solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20570	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20591	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! On the Court of Auditors' report and the impact of the Highness of Staff on the total cost of the University of Vienna and the Economic Union of Vienna: The university law of 2002 entered into force in 2004 also guaranteed the universities autonomy over the sovereignty of personnel. – And how were the effects? It has basically not changed much, although, of course, the costs for staff have increased continuously. For example, at the university Vienna has increased its personnel from 2004 to 2008 by € 73 million, which is a plus of 36 percent; and on the Economic Union by 14.3 million, a plus of 29 percent. The proportion of staff expenditure on total costs increased from 57 to 60 per cent at Vienna University and from 63 to 63 per cent at Vienna University. 66 percent. In 2008, it fell again to 63 percent. As I said, it has not changed much in this division. What was also criticised by the Court of Auditors is that clear performance agreements should be missing and clear objectives set. Talks were already being held with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. Focus should also be placed on the women's rate and on youth promotion. It should also be ensured that there is a certain shift from administrative staff to scientific staff. Today it has been mentioned twice, namely by Mrs Schenk and Mr Zanger, that the support of students is not sufficient. We know: Since the tuition fees have fallen, it is no longer very well calculated how many are streaming to the universities. In his letter to the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Winckler also held his 26th meeting. Januaryen firmly and wishes for the policy that clear framework conditions are created so that one can plan clearly, so that the support of the students also has the necessary quality. The talks will show what comes out of it. Mr President, also from our side: Thank you very much for your correct work and, as I said, for the correct reports.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20637	Mr Grünewald. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20658	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The Court of Auditors' report offers such a wealth of good data that I believe it could be done much more creatively than before, and it could trigger much more than it has been triggered so far. I find the analysis interesting that 30 percent of the scientific staff are only part-time. However, the remark that they work by-work, I think, is a bit indifferent, almost euphemistic, considering that this is the only job for a good part of these part-time workers, so that they are in relatively precarious employment as young scientists and the university does not actually offer them any real perspective. The care conditions have been mentioned. I would ask that the Ministry be evaluated immediately in these care conditions, because, as you know not only from the newspaper, Mrs Federal Minister Karl meant that, in the case of a care relationship of more than 40 students per professor, admission restrictions should be introduced. After I called at the ministry and asked how the care conditions are per study direction, no one and no one could give me any information. Only the art universities have a better care relationship – globally, standard – than 40 to one. That means you would have needed approval restrictions everywhere. What certainly bothers me, but then, at the time, the former Minister of Science, did not produce anything: The university councils set their salaries themselves. The first act of the Innsbruck University Council was the doubling of the salaries of its members. A criticism was answered with many attacks and interventions in the media. The salaries are also opaque within the rectorate. In Innsbruck even – I say, carefully – was bought its own software, so you can't split which person deserves how much. There's no answer to a question about it. What has perhaps not been dealt with is the additional cost of staff at autonomous universities, which has led to the relocation of administration to universities themselves, including the unfortunate distribution of medical faculties from the general university, which has led to considerable more costs. It should also be discussed that € 40 million per year is invested in journal services alone and that the role of clinical additional effort and the use of almost exclusively scientific staff in the clinical field for the health care of countries remains an unresolved problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20712	Mrs Schönpass is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20734	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I am also referring to the impact of human sovereignty on the overall cost situation of the University of Vienna and the University of Vienna. The aim was, among other things, to determine whether the design space granted since 2004 in personnel matters has led to an improvement in the care rate at both universities. This was not the case, according to the Court of Auditors report. The support rate at the university Vienna is still bad, at the University of Economics the care rate is even more dramatic. Although, as we have already heard, more scientific staff have been recruited, some massive increases in the number of students have not improved the support ratio. The Court of Auditors praised the use of the freedom of design in the remuneration agreements and had been dealt with in accordance with market economy criteria. It was criticised that premiums had been paid to rectors and vice-presidents who were bound by the achievement of certain objectives, although the achievement of the objective could not be demonstrated. In principle, it should be noted that university autonomy is very limited insofar as it does not have a direct influence on the budget or on the number of students. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We need to help the universities. Let us work together to ensure that the universities get the resources they need. I remind our Finance Minister Pröll that the government programme has set an increase in budget appropriations for universities to 2% of GDP and universities are waiting for implementation. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It must not be that only one examination decides whether a person may continue his studies after the entry into school. Access to universities must remain open and free! We must give young people in Austria opportunities instead of keeping them away from universities by restrictions. That's why I'm looking for you all.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20788	I call Mr Gahr. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20809	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors' report on the vocational colleges is, I believe, quite positive. I wish we could present such a positive Court of Auditors report to the universities. But I also say quite clearly that despite success, there is always a need for optimization and improvement. The Court of Auditors praises the economy for making practical places available, and, on the other hand, it has not complied with co-financing to the extent necessary or promised. It shows that especially the high school sector covers needs and needs. But, of course, for the future, I believe that the University Council is just asking to carry out monitoring and development tasks. We must do so in order not to neglect monitoring and development tasks. Furthermore, I think the following is very important: There have only been cost monitoring systems at seven of the 20 locations. There is therefore also a need, if the Federal Ministers in the Committee have also informed us that this system is already being introduced or implemented. All in all, I think it is important to improve cooperation between universities and colleges, to formulate clear objectives and to continue to implement the things proposed by the Court of Auditors and which will help us to improve the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20843	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20864	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to stress the following point for the technical colleges: One can speak of a successful project technical college. In the meantime, the share of university students in the total number of students in higher education has increased from 4.9 percent to 12.3 percent. If one could put the funding of technical universities on an even wider basis, the economy that has always made itself involved would also be better able to manage the financial in the future. However, we should be particularly proud that it is now possible for a wider public of interests to reach a university degree. It is particularly remarkable that the proportion of work-related students has grown to almost 32 percent. This is a sign of the fact that a measure has been set up by the policy which is wanted and needed by the public. I would like to say the following small point, which the Court of Auditors also points out: The drop-out rate in some areas is almost 40 percent or a little more. We should not be content with this. You should analyze this, and there you should try to jump in along with, help to make the success story FH even more successful. – Thank you for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20903	Mr Herzegovina came to speak as a next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20925	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The University of Applied Sciences once again: The Court of Auditors considers the development to be very positive in terms of education policy in terms of funding, but it must be a matter of real concern: Only 3 percent of the economy is involved in the financing of technical universities. That is where I am beating in the same candle as Mr Prehauser. This reminds a little of the formula “big mouth, small pocket”. – This has been said earlier about Austrian development aid, and I think that can be applied here too: Large tones from the economy, but ultimately a burden on the local authorities, because it goes beyond the fact that federal, state and local authorities must do this. The topic of communities – which has now moved like a red thread through the whole debate on finance – is really dramatic. The economic and economic consequences, if many hundreds of thousands of communities are unable to balance, cannot be estimated dramatically enough. The President of the Court of Auditors and I, too, feel a certain degree of bitterness, because for many years we have been trying, as a caller in the desert, to reach a cross-sectional view of the Court of Auditors in order to create expertise. This has been prevented for years, has not happened, and today these recommendations are missing, this expertise of the Court of Auditors and, ultimately, Parliament too. Therefore, there is some inadvisability, and next week in Villach, those responsible for the 60. Meeting city day, I hope you see it a little different there, because the safest and biggest applause has always been there when you said: No, we don't want the Court of Auditors' audits! In the meantime, however, it turns out that there is an information and expertise gap. Finally, revenue and expenditure will be necessary for the communities, and there would be very important advice from the Court of Auditors. Finally, the political leaders must decide anyway. And where the SPÖ has the say, it will be decided in this way – because we are particularly involved in education policy – that education policy will never be saved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20971	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e20992	Mr President. High house! If you look at today's Court of Auditors' report, I believe that it is a very good expression of the Court of Auditors' audit strategy. We are examining very quickly in order to actually give the possibility of counter-taxing. This shows not only the examination of the sovereignty of staff at universities, which were granted autonomy in 2004 but also the examination of technical universities when it comes to creating an Austrian university plan, in which it would be important to take the technical universities into account accordingly. In addition, the network of financial control must also be strengthened. That is why we have also examined the internal revision of the distributed companies and have shown what measures should be taken in the field of internal revision. In connection with the sovereignty of staff at universities – which has already been mentioned – it must be stressed that this level of staff has not led to an improvement in care relationships. On the contrary: At five out of seven universities, the care conditions have deteriorated, and in addition, at the Vienna University of Economics, for example, the care relationship has continued to worsen by 34 percent in recent years alone. If you look at the staff effort, you can see that it has increased significantly – this has already been mentioned today in the context of the debate – for example at the University of Vienna by 35.6 percent or at the Economic University by 28.5 percent, in the period 2004 to 2008. At the same time, it is striking that the proportion of habilitated personnel has fallen in total scientific staff, while that of non-habilitated staff has increased. It is also striking in this area that there is an increase of 10.2 percent per year, for example in the reference amounts of the accounting rates, which can certainly be partly justified by structural effects or personal characteristics. Of course, when talking about the university's care conditions, you also need to highlight the collective agreement, which was concluded by 1.10.2009 and which will entail significant additional costs for the universities, in particular through a right to study leave, higher entry salary, automatic salary reductions and pension funds. It will therefore be necessary to make very clear, concrete rules, especially in performance agreements, so that care conditions do not continue to deteriorate. For this reason, in 2011, the Court of Auditors plans a cross-sectional review of the extent to which these specific requirements have actually been implemented in the performance agreements. The report on ‘academics’ is a very positive report, which has already been mentioned today. It should be noted that the goal of promoting students without Matura has been achieved. However, the report also shows that there are still some weaknesses, in particular, it would be necessary for the University of Applied Sciences Council to carry out its strategic important tasks, such as monitoring and further development in this area. Very briefly, only the field of internal revisions has been mentioned. After the examination of the distributed legal entities has shown that many have still not implemented an internal revision, it would be important to create the necessary framework conditions for a targeted revision. I would like to thank you once again for the support and for your positive words on the activities of the Court of Auditors and, of course, I will pass them on to those to whom they are due, namely to the examiners. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e21060	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-108 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:29:24]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-19-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00066_d7e21102	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were tabled by 1117/A(E) to 1136/A(E). Question No 5337/J to 5402/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 20. May 2010, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
