ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8290	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 55 and 56. Meeting of 24. In February 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconvenient and undisputed. On today's day, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Hagenhofer, Dr. Grünewald, Dr. Pilz, Dr. Lichtenecker, Bucher, Windholz and List. [[10:01:39]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8324	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8356	Mr Hofer spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8377	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was shown in the run-up to this meeting that there were difficulties in drawing up the agenda for this National Council meeting. There are hardly any substantial government proposals. I therefore raise in accordance with § 50 para. 1 GOG objections to the agenda of this meeting, namely that the report of the National Defence Committee on the request of Mr Mario Kunasek, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport was included in the agenda and included as Agenda item 1 of the 57. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. A request for distrust against a Federal Minister should not be dealt with as the last item on the second day of the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8414	Mr Brosz also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8435	Madam President. Mr Hofer is right that there have been more difficulties on the agenda, that there would have been many opportunities to include opposition requests in the agenda. However, there is a report in the Committee on Finance, which is ready and which can be debated de facto, on the report on the Stenographical Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on "The distribution and performance of justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness’. I request that this report by the Financial Committee be put on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8461	Mr Scheibner also spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8483	Madam President. It is true that we today have ‘very important’ items on the agenda, such as the ‘privileged and immunities of the European Centre for medium-term weather forecast’. But we believe that there are even more important issues. It can also be discussed – and we would agree with this – that a mistrust against a minister – whether you are for it or not – is more important than these privileges and immunities of the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecast. However, we also request that the report on the Stenographical Protocol of the parliamentary survey on "The distribution and performance of justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness" as agenda item 1 of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8513	All three statements on business management included objections to the agenda. I am not in favour of these objections. A debate will therefore take place on this. A joint debate will take place on all three objections, which will be called after the current hour. I limit myself according to § 50 para. 1 GOG the number of speakers to three Members per group and the speaking time to 5 minutes each. [[10:05:18]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8540	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘BM Pröll: ‘I have no reason to think about tax increases’’ The meeting was held by the ORF from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 13.15 a.m. to 3 p.m. First of all, Mr Scheibner. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8571	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! He has no reason to think about tax increases, but our Minister of Finance on 27 November, a few weeks ago. It was said on February of this year. We have taken note of this statement, as well as of some others from his mouth, because this would be an important signal from a Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, that the need for restructuring, which exists in Austria and other European but also non-European countries, must be discussed, of course, that the money invested in the economy has been pumped into the banks, in particular, in order to balance the speculation losses caused by the banks themselves, must somehow be brought in, but – and we all assumed – of course, this need should not be brought about by tax increases, but by savings in the administration and also by contributions from those who have benefited from such investments, such as the banking sector. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Naiv!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we have very much taken note of this statement by the Minister for Finance, as many others have said. In April a year ago, for example, he said: “Whoever is talking about tax increases or new taxes is not helping the economy to jump, but is giving it a leg.” – If you could interrupt your little discussions briefly, Minister of Finance! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll talks to State Secretary Dr. Lopatka.]] You're right: Those who now raise taxes and discuss tax increases will harm the economy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We all hope that this plant, that this light strip on the horizon, which announces that this economic crisis will eventually have an end and that the economy will have a recovery, is actually a reality. We should not and should not, as far as I am giving you what you said at the time, re-establish this plant, but rather pour it properly, especially through confidence in the economy and in the market so that we can overcome this crisis. You then said in September: “I am not willing to introduce new taxes. We already have a tax burden that has been washed." Yes, Minister of Finance, quite right, we must also strengthen the purchasing power of citizens! They decided on a tax reduction last year. – We said: That's too little ambitious. We should promote the purchasing power of people even more, we must promote the economy by strengthening the purchasing power of taxpayers. That's what I'm right about: Yes, the tax burden has washed! In September, Mr Pröll, you also said that more taxes would not exist with this Minister of Finance, i.e. with you. - Well, that's wonderful, Minister of Finance! We have noted that you have emphasized: There will be no tax increases with a Minister of Finance Pröll! – These were your statements by the end of February of this year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does that mean now?]] But now we are a bit guessless – yes, if we take you seriously, we have to be absolutely unscathed in the face of reality, because, Minister of Finance, this is a problem. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Always! That's always you!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call at the BZÖ:Godt protect Austria!]] For one year, you, Minister of Finance, promise that there will be no tax increases with a Minister of Finance Pröll – but now we are confronted with new ideas from your ministry every day, how to reduce the public's economy. So my question is, what is right now: what has given us Minister of Finance Pröll a year ahead of us – or what will become a reality, namely, the handle in the pockets of taxpayers, the handle in the cash registers of our good companies? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – So what is true now, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties? – I fear: unfortunately, the latter. [[Abg. Grosz: Trailer!]] However, there is in fact also a German chancellor, who, however, is more reluctant in this debate, with which he also said, namely, on the 20th century. August 2009: “I have promised not to raise taxes during this period of government. And I keep that.” In the government programme, you have also maintained that you do not raise taxes, but the Federal Chancellor is only present to the public if he is currently receiving an Oscar prizewinner. Unfortunately, we do not have so many that the Federal Chancellor could contest entire government meetings or several events with them. Mr Finanzminister, you said that the savings target is €2.8 billion, and you wanted to recover all this about savings in the public sector, about savings in the administration. Yes, that would make sense, Minister of Finance, that would be really useful. – You nod, you're wonderful! I like this with you: You nod, say: Yes, we do, yes, wonderful!, only reality unfortunately looks different. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – There is a mayor, the colleague Großruck, who is also pleased with the Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Großruck holds his right hand with raised thumb in height.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: He's no longer mayor!]] He was, at least once, a longtime municipal official; but colleague Großruck has also fled from your policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: (shining waving) No, no!]] But the national officials, including those of the EIA, are delighted with the Minister of Finance, for he does not hurt them. This does not attack privileges – for example, in the country days. The Minister of Finance does not attack the pension rights of national officials and national politicians. After “Wonderful ”! Everything stays there the way it is. [[Abg. Rädler: What was in the Styria?]] No reforms, because that would be far too difficult, far too complicated. It is much easier for him to think about tax increases! This has system: On the part of the government, one has once started discussing a bank tax to get people used to the idea that there will be tax increases. It was then said that only the banks will pay for it – until it is assumed that the banks do not bother at all. 100 billion € in guarantees have been received from the taxpayer and therefore they have said: The €500 million that this bank tax costs, we'll get back to you then, through an increase in the fees and charges for the bank customers! – That’s how we were tried to get used to tax increases. Then it went on: Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner has been thinking about an increase in mineral oil tax by 10 cents, which brings 1 billion euros – or costs the commuters, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party. These are people who always pretend to represent you. These are people who depend on the car to get to their place of work. Between 100 € and 300 € per year, this would be an additional burden for a donor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is your policy, these are your proposals to relieve the speculators accordingly! – Incredible, and I do not understand that at all, especially in view of the fact that there is the clear opposite that this billion will be lost again, because then so-called tank tourism will disappear. [[OBJECTIVES]] That is to say, the Austrians are now paying this € 1 billion, which would otherwise have been paid to taxes from abroad. "Congratulations" on such proposals can only be said. The Minister of Finance then referred to: Well, if we already increase the mineral oil tax, then we are also making an electricity tax, a “ecologisation of the tax system”. [[Abg. Grosz: Then we can do everything!]] – After “Wonderful”, 1 billion € additional, above the electricity price – and all this paid the citizens. After “Wonderful”, what ideas you have! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Wifo and industrial associations have predicted: The wine, beer and tobacco...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8793	Deputies, one second. . I should like to ask the honourable Members to reduce the general murmuring. We have a very high noise scene here. Please, Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8825	Your playful disinterest shows how far we have come with your policy. They are not at all interested in rehabilitating the state. They are not interested in protecting citizens from tax burdens. That's our federal government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Increase in wine, beer and tobacco taxes: € 310 million; Overtime tax: € 100 million; Increase in VAT, which appears again and again. And then the SPÖ is thinking a little about the inheritance and gift tax again. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all you're thinking about?- Oh, my God! For 19 months there was the “Austria Convention”, and the President of the Court of Auditors is expecting you exactly where to save: in the administration, for example, where there are nine different construction regulations. - It's impossible, you say. And what the structures in the school administration are going on: There, too, you could get money. Or also in the health administration: up to €3 billion a year could be saved there, without a reduction in performance, only through a change of philosophy. [[Abg. Grosz: 21 Social security funds!]] That would be something. If you think, as Mr Voves did, about saving politicians just before the election, you must also remember that you once said: You have to be credible, you have to save yourself! Our Clubobmann Bucher has told you this: Up to €300 million would be saved there, for example by halving the number of landtagsmandatare. Why do we need in Vienna – these were the first ones to say that a reduction is not in question – 100 councillors?- Oh, my God! In the city of Vienna completely unnecessary! There are also 1,000 district councils in Vienna. These would be signals if you said: Yes, there is a potential for savings. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need confidence, ladies and gentlemen. In Germany, tax cuts are being considered – but in Austria, you are thinking about how to increase taxes, how to scrap the citizen! And that's the wrong way! We need a good, healthy economy, as well as citizens who have purchasing power to survive this economic crisis – but not politicians who do not think anything else but to get into the cash registers of the economy and into the pockets of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8894	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8917	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and especially the many visitors here on the gallery! Mr Scheibner, I wanted to introduce myself differently, but you said at the end of your speech, Germany is discussing a tax reduction. – To this end: Yes, the Germans are discussing a tax reduction that we made last year in Austria. This is the difference between Germany and Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] In the fight against the crisis, this Federal Government, as never before in the wage and income tax field, has relieved Austrian citizens to a value of €3 billion and we have shown that in the crisis management, tax reduction – in addition to the economic packages – has made a significant contribution to the growth of purchasing power and will continue to do so in the future – and thus, of course, to strengthen the economy and growth. This is a precautionary one, that is the right tax policy, as I imagine it. You, Mr Scheibner, have also not mentioned with any word why, in Austria, we have been having a debate for a few days or weeks on how we can effectively balance the budgets at federal, national and local level. In 2009, there was a crisis that was as difficult as ever before, a crisis that affected Europe, yes, the whole world. Austria, however, is that country in the European Union – and you always forget to say so – which is absolutely on top of the gap that has been achieved in recent years, especially as regards the job situation in terms of the low unemployment rate, growth and budget planning. Austria is one of the best countries in the European Union in terms of competitiveness even after this crisis – and yet we need action. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[The representatives of the BZÖ keep posters up to date on which the title “Pröllnocchio” as well as a photo by Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, with marked attributes of the Roman figure “Pinocchio” – hat, stitch and long nose – can be seen.]] I am very pleased – a great cartoon that will show you here! The only thing that bothers is the orange hat, I have to tell you if we're already staying with the party colors.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8975	Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, you have shown your posters and I am now asking you to remove them. Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8993	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we can also be proud, because Austria's economy has shown in these months that it is particularly robust and stable. However, we still need action – and we must not forget that – because only the interest rate development for the debt we had to take in order to continue to spend the banks so to finance the economic packages and the tax reduction would, if we did nothing in terms of government debt, increase from currently €6.7 billion to over €10 billion in 2014, which would be significantly more than we spend in our country on education. And we cannot see that there is a need for action to reduce the deficit and reduce the debt of the Republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where? Where do you save?]] That's what we're confessing. I am aware of this, and there is no question at all that the time has come to counter it, especially since 2011. We have a very weak growth to expect this year, but 2011 is a better one. Of course, our main focus on this issue is the strengthening of this growth also with offensive measures. [[Abg. Scheibner: With tax increases, do you want to promote growth?]] Every tenth percentage of growth brings us a relief when saving or on the revenue side. [[Abg. Scheibner: But not by tax increases!]] That is why the main focus of this government's policy is to strengthen sustainable economic growth over the next few years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You have no idea! That doesn't even believe the ÖVP!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what size are we talking about? – We need to realize together €6 billion of consolidation needs by 2013, and if I say “together”, I also stress that the €6 billion scale is not a cardboard handle, so we will need a national shoulder closure across the various social and economic sectors. Mr Scheibner, to you and to the BZÖ I am still saying: no new taxes! That was my goal, and that's what I'm standing for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But in a coalition not only counts its own goal, but also what is possible together with the partner. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Markowitz.]] On the question of consensus we were at 60 percent: 60 percent savings and 40 percent new revenue. Mr Scheibner! You heard a government once. I looked at that very thing: Do you know where 2001 and 2002 was the ratio between expenditure and revenue you have contributed? [[Abg. Scheibner: Explain this!]] I don't want to explain this any more! It was far from 60 to 40, then the ratio of revenue to expenditure was 80 percent to 20 percent! You have also contributed to this, Mr Scheibner, and it was also wise and right to do so. We still benefit from it today. As a result of this economic and financial policy, Austria is better off than other European Union countries. That is the point to be addressed fairly and openly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Over the next few weeks and months, we will not deal so much with tax increases and revenue-side reorganisations, but above all with the issues of federal budgetary law and federal financial frameworks, which we will debate here in Parliament in due time. For the first time, there has been a success in giving the Ministries on the expenditure side clear rules in terms of savings. The Council of Ministers decision, which, as I hope, will also be decided here in the House, forces the Ministries to impose these savings targets in their own ranks and in their own administration in negotiations with the federal states – in parentheses: Administrative reform to be achieved. It will be up to you to take part in this decision so that the 60 percent discount rate can be implemented accordingly in the sense of savings for growth and investment in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] We'll discuss this. On this question, as we break the country's expenditure dynamics, my absolute focus is not on the question of the revenue side. If we also need to discuss revenue – and this is what we need to deal with this major problem – then I am in favour of not asking for envy, but having taxes as the top principle. This focuses on the question of an environmental tax reform, a reorientation and modern orientation of the Austrian tax system, not only in order to make a contribution to the budgets, but also in order to have free space for offensive measures and to make money available for investment in future areas or to relieve labour. This is how I understand my financial and economic policy: It is a core task to create work and to keep jobs in Austria. This principle must not preclude a future tax system and a tax debate. I also warn all those who are discussing today about the need to take businesses to the kandare, because this is what is happening to us in a sustainable way in terms of growth and job security. This debate must be developed and held together in the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The motto of the next weeks and months for the debate around the saving side of the Republic and the revenue side is, from my point of view, “socially acceptable and economically sound”. These are the two parameters on which we should align and orient when we jointly develop the tax system, but also the savings system of the Republic of “Save for Austria”. This will be tough debates and tough discussions, but we have a huge advantage, and you always forget to say this: We can address this work of consolidation in Austria earlier than others and from a much better situation than others together. A comparison: Greece has 13 percent deficit, UK and UK have 13 percent deficit. In France, there is a deficit of 9 percent. In Spain, unemployment rates are 20 per cent and more. – I look at how the other European countries will vote this mammoth task! We have the opportunity, based on just under 5 percent deficit with wise measures, to steer off between savings and revenue consolidation, to support growth early, not to save, as some claim, but to commit this narrow gratification with this ratio of 60 to 40, to strengthen the economy, to secure jobs, and nevertheless to balance the state budget. That is the task we have, and in this direction I will also bring all my energy into the negotiations with the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9140	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 GO 5 minutes must not exceed. First of all, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9164	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of BZÖ for today's current hour is the question: How do we finance this crisis? Let's clean up the budget? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] How can we finance the costs of this crisis? Do we do this on the revenue side? Are we going to do this on the expenditure side? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We Socialists have always said that we want to achieve a reasonable mix on the part of revenue and expenditure. [[Abg. Scheibner: Faymann said something else!]] It also shows that those countries that had a good mix in the past were the most successful. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Federal Chancellor said something else!]] When it comes to combating the effects of the crisis, especially on the labour market, namely unemployment, three points are important to us: Firstly, these measures should be as responsible as possible, secondly they should be socially fair and thirdly they should be future-friendly. Justifiable is that those who caused or caused this crisis are also those who are supposed to contribute to the restoration in the first place. Socially fair means that those who are already victims of this crisis due to unemployment do not have to pay again for funding on the basis of other measures. And forward-lookingly, for us, we need to take account of both revenue and expenditure measures on economic and employment and to further finance those important future areas such as education, because we cannot save at the expense of the future in these areas. Yes, we are in favour of revenue-based measures. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For unilateral measures?]] [[Abg. Grosz: next page?]] We've always said that. We have not just said that for 14 days, but we have always said that clearly. And I am surprised that some of us here are not for revenue-based measures when we look at how our tax system works today. Our system works in such a way that income tax is even lower, the less personal service is provided to achieve income. And the more you personally pay for your income, the higher the tax. This is seen in the case of capital incomes where personal performance is significantly lower. For example, stock speculation affects zero percent income tax. For interest income and dividend income, it is 25 percent, for rent and rent, the tax is less than 40 percent. On the other hand, the tax on income from work and benefits is about 50 to 60 percent of gross income if a person brings a personal benefit. With this in mind, we are concerned with eliminating this imbalance and ensuring that those who do not contribute to stock speculation, for example, today, make the same contribution as those who go to work. – You are right: The taxes have washed, they're too high! But this does not apply to all, but only to those who provide a service for their income and work for their money. There we really have to reduce taxes. With the others, however, we can raise them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we talk about 'causer justice', we say: Yes, we want the bank charge! Yes, we want a special levy for banks, because those who have first caused this crisis and, secondly, have benefited from the State's rescue operations must now also contribute to the reorganisation of the budget! We are in favour of deleting the speculation deadlines. If someone speculates with shares, then he should pay the same as someone who works for his money, taxes and taxes and not, as today, between zero and nothing. That's what it's all about! That is why we say: Let us remove these deadlines, so that those as well as the others can make a contribution. We also say yes to the restriction of group taxation, which has brought hundreds of millions of euros to corporations! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That's the way you did it! This is not a job destruction programme! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] No, no, no, That's a simple question of winning! This is not about jobs, it is about dividend distribution and what is distributed in profits. It is about paying taxes for it, just as everyone who works for his money has to pay for it! That is why we say yes to the restriction of group taxation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also say yes to higher and fairer taxation of foundations. Yeah, that's what we're talking about. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of SPÖ) Tell Mr Voves to pay his taxes!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] But not only do we want revenue on our part, but we also want to reorganise expenditure on our part. That's what we clearly said. The Economic Research Institute has put forward a number of proposals, such as a focus on economic subsidies and further steps in administrative reform. Yes, we want to go these steps! But here, too, you have to look at the fact that It is quite socially fair that it is as responsible as possible and that it is future-oriented. We must ensure that we do not save ourselves into a crisis or deeper into the crisis. Rather, we also need to invest out of the crisis and therefore we must ensure that we also have enough money for important future investments in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9313	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9334	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! No one in this House will want to argue that last year and even at the end of the year before that, when dealing with the crisis in Austria, we have taken the right measures. We were even better than many other countries, and this can be clearly read from the figures. At the time, we stabilized the banks and the economy, and at least we were able to stabilize the labour market better than others. With this in mind, it is interesting if the BZÖ now takes a bond with Germany on this issue. The Minister of Finance has already mentioned it: We have long been doing the tax reduction on which the Germans are now fighting and do not agree. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] But above all, every other comparison with Germany makes sure that what we did here was right. The gross domestic product, of course, has fallen in all countries, but it has fallen significantly lower in us than last year in Germany. Economic performance per capita was higher in Austria than in Germany, and unemployment was significantly lower in us than in Germany. Then why should we, please, take an example of the Germans in this regard? - That's where I prefer to look at Austria! We've done the right thing with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Reduce taxes and do not raise taxes!]] It was right last year, but unpleasant to have to make debts. But it was necessary. And no one will want to argue, ladies and gentlemen, that this cannot go further and that we now urgently have to go into the renovation of the budgets, if we do not want our currency to get to the cuddly, if we do not want the country's creditworthiness to suffer, and if we do not, above all, want us to lose room for action in politics through higher interest rates. That means: What to do? - We need to save very specifically. Yes! We confess to that. In addition, we need to transform intelligently, i.e. to transform our tax system intelligently. And we also need to modernise our economic structures offensively. The economic packages – which must also be managed – were necessary, but we do not mind: Of course, they were a lot of structural conservation. The EU Agenda 2020, which is now being presented, is going in the right direction: The aim is to modernise economic structures, also to research through incentives and, above all, to promote innovations that can modernise economic structures. A comment on saving: The former Minister of Social Democratic Finance, Mr Androsch, is right if he today notes in an interesting comment in the “Kronen Zeitung” – and can also be talked about – that our social system is not sufficiently efficient and abuseable, and that legalized abuse must be suggested. However, if we propose an instrument with the transfer account that is intended to do nothing but create transparency and avoid double-tracking, then it is interesting that the country that has washed itself goes through. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It is said that this call has not yet arrived at Mr Voves. It’s really interesting what he’s doing today in the “Small Newspaper. ” It is now always the talk of socially just saving. – He says: “We can no longer act according to the pattern of the 1970s, where it continues to go towards the GDR – supply from the cradle to the Bahre.” And Voves – you hear – says: “I feel that in our society we do not experience the cold death of our feelings, but the heat death of our feelings.” [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Who says that?]] We are far from the ÖVP. When we talk about saving, we're talking about socially compatible savings. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more word on taxes, ladies and gentlemen: We do not want tax increases, no question at all! But the debate on the banking tax, to which everyone obviously confesses, is a first debate on a tax increase. This is about financial transactions, and no one is talking about it! So don't pretend to be as hypocritical as if you're having any consideration of trying to correct taxes, ladies and gentlemen. However, taxes should have a control effect. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the mineral oil tax?]] It must be allowed to think about whether there are negative control effects in our tax system or there, and to convert the tax system, for example, in terms of ecology and our environment, in order to achieve positive effects on the environment. This must not only be allowed, but that is even the commandment of the hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9435	Mr. Klubobmann! There is also agreement by the Rules of Procedure that the word ‘hypocritical’ requires a call for order. I'm trying to get you out of this understatement. [[Abg. Head: I certainly do!]] - You take it back. Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9468	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewers and spectators here in the gallery! They have all heard it from Mr Finanzminister and now from the Klubobmann of the ÖVP: The Minister of Finance does not want new taxes. Then I wonder why you're even talking about it. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You always discuss taxes!]] That you do not want new taxes, Mr Pröll has repeatedly stressed in several releases and press releases in recent months. He said he didn't want to. But as you have seen today or know for two weeks, it was all sound and smoke. The reality looks quite different. I can also remember that you once said that 60 percent of the budget recovery should take place on savings – and my colleague Lutz Weinzinger will have a lot to say about this – and only 40 percent about tax increases on the revenue side. – Mr Finanzminister, your richness of ideas in the invention of new taxes and the argument that this is happening and what it is supposed to bring is huge! However, I would have liked you to have the same richness of ideas on the expenditure side as you show it on the tax increase side by side! We can address a few things. They also said that new taxes should also have a control effect. - Yes, that would be all right! But then your calculations don't vote. I will explain this to you on the basis of an example. You're talking about mineral oil taxes, you're talking about eco tax, you're talking about tobacco tax, you're talking about bank taxes. Mr Kai Jan Krainer, who pays bank tax, as you know very well, not the banks, but the banking tax must be paid by the citizens, by the small and medium-sized enterprises. And the first step has already been taken: Financial market supervision prohibits banks from granting foreign currency loans. There is already the question: How can financial market supervision prohibit something? I have so far adopted legislation here in this House and not in the Financial Market Supervision or the Ministry of Finance, because then we could turn Parliament off. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The prohibition of the granting of foreign currency credits basically has only one effect or one purpose: Foreign currency loans are much cheaper than euro notes, as you know, and this is the first step in the way banks are already preparing to turn off banking tax directly to customers, to small and medium-sized enterprises. Now I come to the subject of mineral oil tax. – If you increase the mineral oil tax, i.e. the fuel price by 10 cents per litre, the result is that the price advantage towards the neighbouring countries has virtually disappeared. That is, the tank tourism, which now brings 400 million euros, will disappear. And with regard to the control effect that this will naturally have, it will be so that people will think more about whether they use their car or not. That means it's used less fuel or bought. And that's where I wonder where you're going to get the $1 billion in tax revenue. So: €400 million from the tank tourism is lost. In other words, even if you do more revenue, the length of the Austrian citizens pays for the length of time, and since, above all, the commuters and the transport industry, where in the meantime up to 100 000 people are threatened by the termination or unemployment, because one has already arrived at a point where the whole can no longer be financed. But you keep burdening it, without shame. You're continuing as before, you don't have a plan. That's what we've heard from the other side, and that's what it's all about. Mr Finanzminister, you said literally a year ago in the course of the budget debate on the double budget, in the 'ZiB 2' under Armin Wolf: “I have clearly told you that there are no new taxes, which was also a basis for the formation of this federal government.” But now this foundation has been broken away from you, because this federal government has failed. You also admit this in all the discussions you have held in the last few days. If you do not wish to further burden the Austrian population, I would suggest: Read your interview in the newspaper “ÖsterREICH” of 21. Feber! You have literally said: "The common interest of policy must be to save ourselves, otherwise tax increases on the back of the working people are threatening." But exactly the working people in Austria continue to burden you shamelessly. You have no ideas on how to save expenditure on your own, but you are fully focused on fiscal consolidation. And I am afraid that if you continue to do so, the budget will be consolidated to 100 percent on the revenue side, but not on the expenditure side, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9533	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9554	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Federal Minister, you should often speak plain text. You should tell the truth here and there once and you should speak plain text more often. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. How do you do?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, you don't do that by yourself. I would have liked you to comment on a current occasion, namely on a brilliant letter from the ÖVP-near academic association, even here in the House today. That would have been desirable. To speak plain text is, I think, something very important in politics, so that you know where you are and where you are politically... [[Abg. Head: Have you not registered our comments on this?]] I have recorded opinions, but not from the parliamentary club, neither from you nor from the Finance Minister and ÖVP-Obmann. I'd like that to happen. I think that's what many people want. This letter to the Government calls for the general termination of immigration, the replacement of the equal treatment law and the repeal of the entire prohibition law. I would like you to take these things seriously and to do a clear distance here in this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Clearly, Mr Vice-Chancellor, there is a clear attitude and at least a minimum degree of budgetary truth. You cannot deny it, Minister of Finance: You've just lied over the last few months that the beams have bent. [[Abg. Grandruck: Hello! Call for orders, Madam President!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I have to say that in this clarity! Knowingly saying the untruth means lying, according to my language understanding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And to say for months: I don't want new taxes, I don't want to, I don't need to, there won't be under my government!, and then in retrospect to say: I couldn't have said the truth, otherwise I wouldn't have done that!, so what is that when knowingly the untruth say? I believe that the people in Austria deserved to learn the truth about the budget. The truth is reasonable. I believe that every citizen or citizen in Austria has known that it is not possible to do so, namely to press out €10 billion from the administration until 2013 and then to rehabilitate the budget. Nobody believed that anyway. So now we're talking about a reasonable, thoughtful concept! What ÖVP and SPÖ have delivered today is anything but chord. I also doubt whether it is reasonable. The ÖVP makes certain proposals, the SPÖ calls for other proposals. So what's actually going on? Your government plan to master the very difficult budgetary situation? One aspect is far too short, namely that we discuss the causes of the crisis together again, analyse them and eliminate certain causes for the future. This includes certain things in the international financial market, usually the scenario of how this should continue. But I miss that. They are now talking about individual tax proposals, but the causes of the crisis, about who actually caused the crisis and how to eliminate these causes or end them for the future will no longer be discussed. But that's an important contribution, and that's what we're bringing in. One of the causes is still the following: If, on the one hand, society accumulates a lot of capital, more and more capital, but on the other side of society becomes less and less, then, of course, this capital is looking for charges. [[Abg. Head: Do you want to retaliate?]] No, no, no, We say, and this has always and also in all truthfulness and seriousness: It will not go without new taxes, however, they should do those who like to do it and who can also afford it! That means that we are finally attacking the privileges of the Foundation in Austria, that we are finally attacking the speculation of shares, that we are talking about capital gains taxes, that we are talking about the great assets and also ask what contribution these areas can make. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] That's what you're doing! A major and important thing would be another structure in the tax system through ecologisation, a relief of the work factor and an increase in energy taxation, but without revenue. There is also a relief to give people the opportunity to behave differently. But this must not be an excuse for you to do nothing again in the realms of wealth, in the realms and in the super-rich. That's the most important point! That is why, Minister of Finance, please be truthful and honest, finally put your entire plans on the table, or discuss with SPÖ what is actually coming, and then present us with a thoughtful and, above all, socially just proposal, instead of a new tax every day! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I do!]] Yes, you do, and you do this primarily with a very, very bad background, namely a great idea to use the ecologization of the tax system, at once now to stop budget holes. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We don't want that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Neither do we!]] I can tell you again: The abolition of Stiftung tax privileges, the introduction of a bank speculation tax, a capital increase tax – we have already talked about this –, the reintroduction of the stock exchange tax, foreign exchange transaction tax. What has become of this big project? That's all right, by the way. On the other hand, there are a number of things that are actually essential, such as the tax deductibility of manager salaries, which is at the moment the taxpayers pay. And then the soccer with the pensions is still rewarded taxly. We can delete all of this. Under the rule, this is almost four and a half billion – proposals that can be taken seriously, Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9728	Mrs. Club President, after you have given a relatively detailed explanation of why you used a word that is not used in this House, I do not expect you to take back the accusation of lying. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No!]] I'll give you a call for order. Next, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9766	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, what are you doing? You're actually here?, I'm wondering. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What?]] Yeah, what are you doing here? Because you said: Tax increases? – “I can only say: without me!” – You said that, Minister of Finance, a few months ago. That means there are now two options: Either you're just more than a guest here, or you're telling us today in the form of a statement of resignation and a goodbye to Parliament that you're going, because there are tax increases, and you're still sitting there, Minister of Finance! It can't be. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it's even better: A quote by Chancellor Faymann of the 20th century. August 2009 – listen carefully, listen, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Group! –: “I promised the taxes in this reign period” – in the reign period! – “not to increase. And I keep that.” What are you supposed to think of such a Federal Chancellor and also of such a Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the Government? This is fiction and truth: on the one hand, excluding tax increases and on the other hand selling people for stupid, driving behind the light, and finally abandoning them with their worries and needs. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That's this government! They fled to a record debt with the budget. Debt Party ÖVP! – Like many years, stupid & co, you were proud of it and said: We're not a debt party!? – Now you have led the country in record debt with this Minister of Finance! Now comes the second step: Record tax burden, because the debt must be refinanced. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And that's how it always turns around. Mr Pröll, Vice-President of the ÖVP, I say to you: Arrogance comes before the case! Even if your mayors have now won a few municipal council elections: You have never been elected in this Republic! And I guarantee you: The Austrians will not choose an ÖVP chairman and finance minister who leads the country into record debt and the highest tax burden ever! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Maximum unemployment: 400,000 unemployed! Highest crime! High poverty! Mr Finanzminister, there are thousands of people in this country who still have to decide every day whether to pay their rent or whether to buy something. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Please! Please! Please!]] Thousands of people in this country! And that's why you're coming with the tax culprit and the culprit. And that's actually the real scandal! Because you say the other countries don't think about tax increases: No, they don't think about it, but they're already doing it! Look at Germany! Because it was said here that Germany did not carry out tax reductions: Since the beginning of this year, Germany has reduced VAT on hotels from 19 to 7 percent. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Austria has 10 percent. And see – read the newspapers! – in the first two months of this year, there was an investment wave in the German hotel industry, as it has never been. These are wise ideas, Mr. Finanzminister – and not to get along with the tax culprit! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Or: What are still wise ideas, Mr. Finanzminister? – But just scream up there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] The grosherl counter from the banking club is also sitting up there. It's all right. – Why reduce You're not paying taxes on investment wages? If employees invest part of their wages in the company again, why don't you make a tax advantage? These are wise approaches! Or: Why don't you relieve one-person companies, who also employ only one employee, in the form of a reduction in the additional wage costs so that we create jobs? These are wise ideas! – But you don’t have ideas, but you just want to put on the control screw. And that's what we're against! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They punish performance. They're robbing purchasing power. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: You have no idea!]] And what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? – They favour the laziness with a minimum wage, which is net as high as a minimum income. That is, working in this country is no longer paying off, because you get the minimum wage anyway if you don't do anything. That's your policy! And we reject that. And: Now the drivers are coming again. That's typical! The Minister of Finance says: If I don't think so, I'll burden the drivers with an increase in the oil tax! – That’s incredible at all! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who says that? You're saying that!]] Do you know the drivers pay seven taxes? Name: They pay mineral oil tax, they pay VAT, they pay the VAT on purchase, they pay the standard consumption tax, they pay the motor insurance tax, they pay the normal insurance tax, they pay the vignette. And now you want to come and also increase the mineral oil tax for the drivers? – This is really a robbery, a way of bearing from this government which we reject, ladies and gentlemen, very much! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I say something to you, Minister of Finance: Do you know where you get the money? – Not by the drivers, but by the OMV. Go to the ÖIAG, the OMC that has been writing millions and millions of profits for years, even last year, in the crisis year still € 572 million net profit. This is money you should get, where prices are always raised, but never lowered! It is not the drivers, but the large-scale industrialists in the OMV who are supposed to do something for the budget and make money! This is the task that you have – and not to scrape the drivers and commuters that can't afford it anyway! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you're going over people like a shave today, then don't go into history as a reforming finance minister, but as the largest scrapper of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9960	Next, Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9981	Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests at the gallery and spectators at home! Mr Westenthaler, of course we need to reorganise the budget. We need to reduce debt, and we have to do the repair work of the crisis. [[Abg. Grosz: Pay the taxes in the Styria!]] We owe it to the next generations. But this is also a question of responsible and professional policy. Of course, it is useful to make budgetary consolidation a mix of revenue-side and expenditure-side measures. This shows us not only the history, but also all the experts confirm it. So only by saving benefits to reorganize the budget is dissatisfaction, just as only through revenue-based measures. We both have to do this. But, ladies and gentlemen, today we are mainly dealing with revenue-based measures, i.e. taxes. And it's not that hard. There are good taxes and there are “evil” taxes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Good taxes are fair taxes. This means that those who have contributed to this crisis must also contribute to the repair work. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen,... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Take it easy! – Ladies and gentlemen, just answer me a question! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, is it just that, for example, a bank manager who bought shares more than a year ago and sold them today with a big profit pays taxes? Is that fair? [[Abg. Grosz: Of course this is just!]] - Exactly, it's just! Is it fair, Mr President, that banks that have received billions of taxpayers today make a contribution to repair work? - Yes, it's just! [[Abg. Grosz: Voves! Foundation tax!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Is it fair – Mr Bartenstein is not there – that banks and companies that make profits here, regardless of where their subsidiaries are abroad, pay income taxes here as well? - Yes, it's just! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our proposals for good taxes are not only fair, but they also contribute up to €2 billion for the repair of the budget. But let us come to the “evil” taxes! [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] The "evil" taxes are those that have already taxed those who do not share the crisis, the victims of the crisis, namely the masses and the middle class. The talk is about those taxes that always get new cover coats. It is now the cover of environmental protection. These are the taxes that make the tanking, heating even more expensive for everyone than it is anyway. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you guarantee that this is not coming?]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Is it just that all Austrians are taken into the wallet, undifferentiated, according to the principle of foundry? - No, that's not fair! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who represents the Federal Chancellor?]] Therefore, Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, show courage, show civil courage, stand with us, on the side of the Austrians! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Don't fear Raiffeisen & Co! With all due respect: We're politics. [[Abg. Grosz: The Voves is supposed to pay taxes!]] We are responsible for the equipment in our country. We decide for the benefit of Austria – we here in the house and you in the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Voves!]] That is why I urge all of you, ladies and gentlemen – unfortunately, it is getting louder and louder – to go with us, the Social Democracy, the fair way in the repair work, for the prosperity in our country, for the economic location Austria, but above all for social peace in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: Voves! Payment of the Foundation's tax!]] [[Abg. Grosz: With a foundation tax!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10185	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10207	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we look a little beyond the edge of the current debate and look at the tax policy of the last 20 years, three major discharge offensives occur: tax reform 1988/89 under Minister of Finance Lacina, tax reform 2004/2005 under Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser and the last tax reform 2009/2010 under the current Minister of Finance Sepp Pröll – Lacina, Karl-Heinz Grasser, Sepp Pröll. One party was always there and was the driving force: the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the BZÖ.]] This debate does not allow us to take away our image as a tax reduction party, my dear colleague. But I admit, Herbert Scheibner, separating us two things I debated due to facts and facts – you make polemic calls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We have fought for the tax reduction!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not a polemic at all, that's just a correct position!]] That's the difference, dear Herbert Scheibner! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is true: For us, the stability of the government budget is an economic value, it is also the basis for a strategy of growth and employment, not a question at all. [[Abg. Mr Scheibner: Madam President, there is actually a call for order for such things!]] It is undisputed that, like all the countries of the world, we have fought the crisis with the incitement of higher public debt. No question, there was no alternative. Hans-Werner Sinn vom Municher ifo once said: All the countries of the world have used an instrument to combat crisis, namely public debt. – Unfortunately, it was. That is, now we have to see how we can put the state budget back in order. I was at the EU Monetary Committee in Brussels last week, and there the Director-General of the IMF, the Monetary Fund, said the following – and this is really to be taken seriously –: First of all, the global financial crisis has become an economic crisis, and now we have to pay great attention to the fact that the economic crisis will not create a crisis of state finances! - That's the point. That means we have to do everything we can now to take consolidation steps. Now, however, the budget is known to have only two sides, revenue and expenditure. And no consolidation programme worldwide has worked solely on the basis of expenditure cuts, but it has always been a balanced ratio of expenditure cuts and revenue increases. Sometimes it was a third to two thirds, today we say 40 : 60. That's also because: If it were at the expense of expenditure, it would hit domestic consumption again. I'm sure you can't. I think 40 to 60 is indeed a balanced relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say one thing: When we talk about taxes here and some colleagues from my coalition partner brought back the famous formula: I must ask those who have caused the crisis!, I must ask: Who caused the crisis? – At first, it was an excessive public and private debt in the USA, connected with the casino capitalism of Wall Street. Mr Krainer and Mrs Colleague, come out and tell me how you want to tax Wall Street casino capitalism in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Or let us take the example of Greece. [[Abg. Riepl: What kind of government do they have there?]] The Greeks have lived over their conditions for years. This is the cause of the Greek disease. How can we fight this with tax policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen? Let me say on the statement – this is also going towards my coalition partner – that the companies should pay more, say again: Farms are always called jobs. Mr Matznetter, because Look at you like this: That's always jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where else should he look?]] Our entrepreneurs are capable enough to make their profits abroad – there are a lot of examples for this. All we do for businesses is for jobs, for income and for social security in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Stop with these class-warring arguments: It is said to pay those who have caused the crisis!, The businesses must be taxed!, The foundations must be taxed! – Mrs Colleague, you already know that we have 400 000 jobs in Austria under the umbrella of foundations? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There's no job lost!]] And group taxation, Mrs Colleagues and also my colleagues from the Coalition, has also contributed to the fact that many headquarters in Austria are that value creation is much greater. Of course, if there's any losses there, they'll go off if there's any profits, the taxes will be paid to us. That's just the way it is in economic life. Let us stop a polemic debate and return to facts and facts, Mr Scheibner. [[Interlocutory calls by Dr. Glamischnig-Piesczek and Scheibner]] And because you mentioned the Germans in your speech like this, did you read what Helmut Schmidt, the former German Chancellor, said three weeks ago in a big “Kurier” interview? – [[Abg. Scheibner: The truth says!]] He asked: Do you even know how good you are? [[Abg. Scheibner: But not because of you!]] When we look at it today: All the facts and facts are saying that we have overcome the crisis much better than other countries in the world!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10386	Next came Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10408	Estimated President! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This was an interesting lecture of political speaking today. What did we hear? – “Requirement” has been said, and that comes to the point. I recognise that this is an exciting challenge, and we need strategies for growth and employment, on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. This is indeed an ecological tax reform when we tax our fossil fuels. We need to change the tax system intelligently at all. – Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk and nothing said! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] It has not been said what our real problems are. Our problem is that we cannot change the situation and the indebtedness of our state even with new taxes to the positive. That's not going to happen. There you can tax like the wild ones, in the final effect it's ended sometime because people don't have money anymore! You have to consider where the costs are actually the ones that would be avoidable. And there you have to go, please, up to the basics. The first basis we need to think about is federalism: How interesting and important is federalism to us, and where can federalism be used to reduce the cost of federalism without question? But this question is not being attacked at all, it will not be exactly about it – Mr Vice-Chancellor, yes, I have already heard, at the time in the Raiffeisenkas you said that you should think about it a little bit. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] But perhaps you should think a little bit more about it and also have conversations with the national leaders, namely, reasonable conversations, not discussions, in which it says only: I am on the stand, and you are on the stand! Ladies and gentlemen, this is just one of the issues that we do not trust in at all – if I say “we” now, that is my solidarity with the entire state and with it my solidarity with the current government, although I would have liked to exchange them, I must say that openly to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not trust ourselves to think about whether something is ill in our social system, whether there is anything there, which costs us so much money that we can no longer impose on it, and whether there may also be abuse in this area. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Start in Carinthia!]] If anyone speaks of abuse in the social system, he's a fascist or similar anyway. [[Abg. Donabauer: Transparency account!]] We also need to think about the costs of asylum care, especially since we know that at least 90 percent – at least 90 percent! – the asylum seekers are sooner or later revealed that they are not real asylum seekers, that they are just on our pocket and that the whole thing costs a lot of money. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] Ask a District Police Commander once, what it means to carry out at least once a week a transport either to the airport or to a message! – There he needs for a single asylumant: a military vehicle, a driver, of course, this is a police officer, and two more drivers, one of which should be a “beat” as far as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] They are set aside for this, are gone all day and then come back with the asylumist in the evening because he said something else in the message. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] It costs money, it costs a lot of money! But we don't even trust ourselves to think about it at all. Ladies and gentlemen, how much does the lack of security cost us? How much money, how much state resources does it cost to us that we can no longer live safely in that state? A state built up by generations and a secure state; a state in which it was quite natural to leave one's family house open, that one left the apartment open so that the friend could come in, found the mother in the kitchen, and asked: Where's my friend, the Karli? Today everything is locked, locked, locked and monitored with cameras. That's what it costs! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: The friend of the mother or...?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not yet know the costs of immigration. There are still no official statistics on what immigration actually costs us and what it brings us. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We would have asked that there would be a need for action, as you say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't talk politics, start talking. You can be open and honest with the solution of our problems!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10541	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10562	Thank you, Madam President. – Now you have a feeling about how it could get so far in Carinthia. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But now to you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. – Just as it described Clubobfrau Glavischnig, it is right: They have used the instrument of lies for tactical reasons. You're telling me about that, too. In retrospect, you still want to be celebrated as a particularly clever party to keep you on the line before, that there will be no tax increases, so that you will increase the pressure on your coalition partner – I congratulate the coalition partner, if you are only there with lies – by saying that there will be no revenue increases, i.e. tax increases to enforce your, the goals of the ÖVP. That's what you argued. Maybe that's plausible in your world, but I'll tell you one thing: The political collateral damage you have done with it is enormous, because of course you could have responded to this debate from the outset. It was perfectly clear that it had to come that way. It is over a year since Member Dr. Van der Bellen pre-empted exactly to this speaker's seat, how interest will rise by at least €3 billion, if nothing happens. Same numbers have exactly the same numbers You are right today – rightly! – held a meeting to justify revenue increases as well. I wonder where the damage would have been if you had been honest before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So a lie with a start – you also confess to it, but not so much out of insight and morality, but because you want to give up here as tactically particularly clever. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How should he confess if it is?- Oh, my God!]] But with this smartness we will end, I believe, not to jump very far, because then you can no longer trust in the way. How's this going to go on? Let us come to the really big points and big chunks that are coming up now – in that we agree. The Greens are indeed the ones who, as the only ones – now also the SPÖ – have come to know from the outset that it will not go without revenue increases. But we also say: Yes, we must see and do certain inefficiencies in the state and in the performance of the public hands. Yes, this is also our core competence, of course, for years and days we have been working in the Court of Auditors or in the Court of Auditors and within the framework of other related tasks where what could be done better. In the short term, I would like to tell you that we will be able to reach a few hundred million in the medium term, more than one billion in the long term and perhaps even more in the long term, without having to plan cuts in the social field. But that's exactly the area where you blew to attack. There you can see the cards with the social transfer account at an early stage. They are not primarily concerned with transparency, but with preparing the debate on where it is going and where it is not. This is ideologically unintelligible to you, of course you can question the social system, but you have also come through the back door and not open and from the front. That too you will have to answer. Our way is another: Saving public expenditure where it actually brings something where the performance of the tasks is essentially carried out – and this is going on once, no one can hear it anymore, even under the Chief Administrative Reform. Only: Those who are against it are at least not sitting in the green rows, probably not at the FPÖ – in Carinthia much earlier – but sitting in their own ranks. It's a pity! We have therefore participated in the Austrian talks and are doing so, apart from that, because we have believed in this five-party consensus that we, as federal politicians, are taking a trip there to signal the heads of state that there is an intergroup agreement so that something goes on. What's the point? – Every slightest step is blocked by national leaders – one of them happens to be like you, Minister. [[Abg. Grosz: This is not a coincidence, that is...!]] Also from others, but most of the time it starts. So make up for it once in the ÖVP! There is no fissure, which is completely clear, but the ÖVP is nevertheless a hip, which speaks and does so here. This is where the biggest reprimandors of reform sit. If you want to talk to your national leaders again in your constituencies. And then you explain there and there and there must be saved, but don't get to look into the cards. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On this occasion, however, you are breaking the Constitution again because you do not want to present the budget in good time. This is a sequence of disbeliefs that we no longer allow to pass through you, on all sympathy to individual points that you present here. The differences are also clear: When it comes to ecologizing in the tax system, it must be in the system. We are not going to get through with the population either, you are harming a good instrument. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If ecologically harmful behaviours are penalised taxly in the economy, industry and in the households, then others must be rewarded so that the change of behaviour we want to take place. That is why it will have to be finally – and this is also the final sentence – that we should reorganise the budget where something goes; and that is certainly also with your clientele, which you always defend: in the rich and in the undertones. And that must be done now.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10634	For the sake of fairness, Mr Kogler, I ask you: Do you take back the assumption of lying? [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, I only did exactly what Mr Vice-Chancellor said!]] - Then I'll give you a call for order. [[Abg. Brosz: The Pröll also receives a call for order, for he has admitted that!]] The next item is Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10685	Madam President. High house! Mrs Rudas, I was very excited about your speech, about the so-called fair taxes, the good taxes and the bad taxes. Mrs Rudas, there are good parties and bad parties in this country. The bad parties and politicians are certainly those politicians and parties who do not pay taxes. In this context, I would like to remind you of Mr Franz Voves of the Styrian Social Democracy, your party friend, who until today is not prepared to tax a 50 million-€ capacity within the framework of his foundation and leaves the back door open to transfer his entire assets to a non-profit research society via a so-called fundraising section in Austrian tax law. The only thing that Mr Voves could really explore would be the lies he's up to the Steirers day and night, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear Mr Pröll – to come to the tax increases now – you said on 21.4.2009: “Whoever is now talking about tax increases or new taxes is not helping the economy to jump, but is putting it a leg.” Or, very interesting, just over a month ago, on 21.2.2010, you said: “The common interest of politics must be to save ourselves, otherwise tax increases on the back of the working people” in Austria. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] – These were your words a month ago, and now, Mr Federal Minister, you want to increase the tax on mineral oil, tax overtime, almost every chapter that concerns people in our country, with taxes instead of finally saving themselves! Mr Pröll, if lies have short legs, you will go out of this house tonight under the doorstep, but certainly no longer upright. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I always go under the door! Are you going over the doorstep?]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] - You crawl under the door. I'd like to record it to you. I also brought you a beautiful cartoon. They do not seem to be a very visual type. On what you say, on words, papers and your own signature you don't value much, so we like to record what the Austrians think of you. Mr. Federal Minister, our country's political apparatus alone costs €150 million a year. 1 200 executive and legislative organs! A federal council that no one – not even in this house again – talks about, which is actually to be abolished. In most of the national governments, nine government members and 56 MPs are swirling around, which are actually only more of a delicacy of the population in one case or another, but certainly no longer fulfilling any benefit. In Vienna alone, we have so many district leaders that because of the crowd – popularly said, Madam President – it is graying out a Sau. Mr. Federal Minister, your own government had in 2009, i.e. last year, travel costs of €2.2 million – not your officials, no, you as government members even caused you on foreign service trips. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] 7,4 million € travel costs, pure flight costs for the use of your own aircraft. And your representation costs – yes, I know how you work, Federal Minister – amounting to € 3 million for buffets and receipts for the members of the Federal Government, which is an unnecessary issue! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We work for Austria!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Very successful! Very successful!]] And that's why I call you and ask you to finally end this waste care and really save yourself. [[OBJECTIVES]] I know you can't, but take yourself and your politics on the occasion and introduce a new modesty into Austrian politics! Be ascetic at your own expenses, in your own departments, at your receptions, at your buffets, at your missions, at the status symbols that you obviously need to satisfy your own vanity! Be economical here once! Save yourself in the political field before once again increasing taxes in this country, thus ruining the economy and burdening workers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, introduce the Tobin Tax, the transaction tax! At last, make a flat tax, a uniform tax rate of 25 percent – which Poland has long held, but which is behind Austria! Go here and go to the Styria and finally pick up the €5 million tax debt in Styrian social democracy before you start working here on employees and especially on small and medium-sized enterprises! That would certainly be the far more right way, the more honest way for a healthy Austria than what you are doing now: in times of crisis, to burden people even more by turning on the tax screw – like modern road depositors, robbers, blood cleaners who fly through the country and then burden those who actually pay the taxes every day in that country. Mr Federal Minister, I know you can't look into the mirror anymore because of your comments over the last one and a half years. That's why I'm giving you that – you can hang it up. [[The speaker holds a panel with the title “Pröllnocchio” in the height, on the vice-chancler Dipl.-Ing. It can be seen with a hood and a long nose.]] By the way, this is a red skin – you may also be color-blind, which is not orange. But that's not a problem, we'll check it out. Hang this up so you know that your own statements have a half-life of a few hours and what the Austrians have to keep from your words! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10835	Mr Grosz, your speech is in favour of wording, for which I could give a call for an order every time. I say quite frankly to you: I don't do it – because of the lack of hopelessness. [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Is that comparable to Dörfler?]] Next, Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10879	Thank you, Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we do not have this prospectlessness with our Vice-Chancellor. Perhaps he takes some of what he has heard today to heart. [[Abg. Grosz: FPK! FPK! Your Scheuch...!]] Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The “Salzburger Nachrichten” have brought a beautiful collection of your quotations, for example your statement: “Whoever is now talking about tax increases or new taxes does not help the economy to jump, but makes it a leg.” – That’s what you said in your first budget speech. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I already hear this for the third time today!]] - I know. But it's good, maybe you'll remember. “I have clearly told you that there are no new taxes, which was also a basis for the formation of this federal government.” – You said that in the “ZiB 2”. “In contrast to other political parties, I have never focused on burdening only the people; that would be the easiest thing.” – So it was to read in the “Vorarlberg news” in July 2009. “I am not willing to introduce new taxes. We already have a tax burden that has washed.” – At the ORF “Summer Talks” in September 2009. “I don’t confuse the steering wheel with the steering screw.” – In your basic speech on 15. ==References== "If the other side does not want to keep the expenditure discipline, it places tax increases in space. Somewhere the money has to come. I can only say: without myself.” – On 23. ==References====External links== “We want to achieve this in particular through a brake on expenditure, otherwise we would pave the way for tax increases, and I do not want to do that!” – In the “Krone” in January 2010. “The common interest of politics must be to save ourselves, otherwise tax increases on the back of the working people are threatening. And that’s not what I want.” – In “Austria” on 21. Feber. ==References== Feber this year: “I have no reason to think about tax increases.” Mr Vice-Chancellor, and today we hear: 1.7 billion tax increases! This can only have its cause in the short-term memory: in the short-term memory as far away as you hope the citizens forget what you said last year, what you told before elections – or in your own short-term memory that you can no longer remember what you said. Or – and that would be the worst of all – it is the Pröll’s budgetary policy that you think only so short-term that you no longer know what you said three or four weeks ago. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! If you know that the crisis has taken place since mid-2008 and has taken place, then, I think, it was bad that you have always known at that time that there will be tax increases, but that you have still gone out with flakes that are not serious to take. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today you are convinced that you want to raise taxes, and hope again for the short-term memory of people that they forget very quickly. I can only say: If you continue to clear the coalition partner, the elections will come very quickly. And I am convinced that the citizen will not forget it. I ask you to: Set up reforms! Go on, pack it up! According to WIFO study, there is only €5 billion for the quick reforms that can be implemented in a short time. In addition, the chance would be to get €11 billion. I believe, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that it would be time to do something. Here it would be time to really think and take up these reforms. If you have complained today that you have a coalition partner, I remember: The SPÖ wanted to tackle the school reform, and you were the first to reject it. You said: No, we can't do that now! - I don't think that's how it works. If you want to make reforms, then really with everyone, with the partner, with the coalition parties! It will then succeed in rehabilitating this country without any debt burden. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, take the chance! Apply the reforms, and enter into history in such a way that after many, many years as the first Vice-Chancellor and as the first Finance Minister, you have managed to implement the long-awaited administrative reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10951	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:27:11]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10972	We are now entering the announced debate on the objections to the agenda. The objections came from Deputies Ing. Hofer, Brosz and Scheibner. In the joint debate held in accordance with § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes – I have already said so – and the number of speakers per club to three. First, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes speaking time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10999	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, I mentioned earlier, that there have been significant problems in drawing up this agenda, simply because the club directors were also presented with a paper which would have provided all the agenda items for the committees. And each of us knows that, unfortunately, most of the requests are postponed in the committees. The agenda is therefore, unfortunately, embarrassingly thin. We have then tried not to delay some of the opposition requests in the Transport Committee so that the second plenary day can be achieved. 700 opposition requests, ladies and gentlemen, are waiting for the debate here in plenary. One example: the exit from the EURATOM Treaty. We are now trying to save on all corners and ends. We pay € 40 million in new nuclear power plants. I wonder if that's still up to date. And that's where a representative of the government parties said: Well, you can't get out anyway, so this request is postponed. – This is particularly bad, because the fact is that you can get out and so the delay has been inadmissible. Ladies and gentlemen! The mistrust against Norbert Darabos was removed and put as the last point on the second day of the session – although there are built-in barracks, tanks that do not drive, Eurofighter who does not fly. All of this has been removed all the way back. There are now declarations of embarrassment of the members of the government today and tomorrow. I would have been interested in a point – to this end explanations would have been possible, namely a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on the ORF scandal. That would have been particularly interesting to me, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are two suspected neonazis hired by the ORF and are paid by the ORF for saying “wine salvation!” [[Call the FPÖ: Incredible! Incredible!]] For a “wine Heil!”-sager an amount of €80 was offered, ladies and gentlemen. 80 € for a “Best Heil!”-Sager! There were several premiums: Depending on what is just said, another amount is paid. [[Call the FPÖ: Madness!]] The ORF has even offered to finance trips of this suspected neo-Nazi to Neonazi meetings abroad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] – And all this with the forced membership contributions, with the forced fees that the Austrians have to pay! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is unheard of!]] This is an unheard-of process! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can stand to ORF as you want. Yes, almost every party – the SPÖ not, but almost every party – once had difficulties with the ORF. All right, that's the normal political debate. But to pay neo-Nazis here, so that they can interfere with events, so that you can draw as bad a light as possible from a political party, that is very, very bad, ladies and gentlemen. It's very messy! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I expect the responsible editor to release and get a house ban, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I'm expecting! Because otherwise... – Knowing You may not be: Do you know what this editor did after he was at our event and, with his premium model, demanded that these neo-Nazis shout “Sieg Heil!”? [[Call the FPÖ: Meet with the Greens!]] – After this came up, he went to a local with these two rulers and drank beer there, was completely insecure and asked these rulers to protect him – and offered money for it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the FPÖ: Unheard! Incredible! Pui! Sourry!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... two or three?]] Mr Matznetter, please! You're really one of the most unnecessary people in this house. Please leave blank You've got these calls. I beg you! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An editor who is supposed to pay neonazis, must be ordered with house ban! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are also possibilities for my ladies and gentlemen to get rid of the forced contributions to the ORF. And I'll tell you: If there are no consequences here, we will inform those Zig thousands of people who have signed with Mr Vilimsky about how to exempt themselves from the compulsory fees. Because there is this possibility. [[Abg. Grosz: Who?]] [[Abg. It's best there!]] I personally think of this step as well. If you want to know, write to me – I'll send the documents to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11194	Next, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11215	Madam President. Let us return to the objections to the agenda raised by the opposition parties today! Let's take a look back at what happened just a month ago: At that time we had the situation that we had started two plenary sessions, and there was a plenary day of six hours, where four requests were on the agenda, of which two were for Court of Auditors reports. [[Abg. Wenninger: And the Brosz missed!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: And the Brosz missed the meeting!]] This means that within a month the government has put on the table all two government documents. At the time, the question was debated why it is not actually possible – if the government in the run-up to elections had apparently not been able to come to a work-pension – to deal with opposition applications. It has been mentioned before – the number mentioned is correct –: There are still more than 700 materials in the house. And the question is whether a parliamentarism does not also include dealing with opposition applications. – I don't know, colleague Cap: “New Parliamentaryism”? That was a keyword from Josef Cap. I can remember that from 1999 to 2006 Josef Cap called for a different parliamentaryism. And actually happens is exactly the same thing that was the case before: The opposition requests have been postponed, have not been dealt with, have not found the way to the plenary. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, we didn't do that!]] Now we have the same situation again, with a somewhat delayed procedure. In fact, there was a paper in the preparation of the meeting, which provided for a large number of opposition requests to be on the agenda. A few of these have just managed to hold a plenary session – we are going to debate today, they concern the area of transport – and everyone else – from the Scientific Committee, from the Research Committee – have been postponed across the board. I have the list, you can browse it: Ten requests from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of which one came. All twelve applications were postponed from the Scientific Committee, six from the Research Committee. They were all postponed and not available for treatment. That's what I'm asking myself! I mean, you can discuss whether the meaning is really that there must be a flood of laws at each session. This may not be the claim that Parliament is making 50 laws every time. Sometimes we have already criticized that. But I believe that Parliament is also here – if the government parties do not even have a two-thirds majority when I count correctly, and about 40 percent of Members in this House oppose it – that the requests made by members of the opposition are put on the agenda. You can say no! No one will force you to agree to a request! But in a Parliament calling itself a working parliament, it is Usus that it is at least possible for us to discuss here in plenary that we can make an opinion – and that the government does not say that we do not want anything about the opposition on the agenda. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to explain this to the audience: The difficulty is that we cannot go here now and say that we want to debate this request or that request here today, because the Rules of Procedure provide that only the debate that has gone through the Committee can be debated. And if the Committee postpones requests, then it will end. The only right that the opposition has is: There is a need to debate it once in the Committee. And when it's postponed, then it's rubbed. – This is a bad style to be plowed here. It would not be possible to tell us that all these requests should be put on the agenda. But there is one thing that might be possible: There was a survey on distribution and performance justice in Austria, where there was a great deal of criticism of what the ÖVP presented. But if this were to be a basis for the tax debate, which will be on the agenda next month – in April the Federal Financial Framework Act – then it would have been at least useful to report on what has been debated there, and to talk about the contents of these ideas. – Even there, the government parties were opposed and did not want this debate to take place. Let me say, however, two or three sentences on what Mr Hofer mentioned earlier and used this objection debate, the so-called ORF scandal, which is being discussed by the FPÖ. What was the fact? – The fact was that Ms Rosenkranz’s candidate was accompanied by appropriate reporting, with critical reporting, where the questions regarding her attitude to the Prohibition Act were articulated, where she was also asked whether she recognized the existence of gas chambers or not, where there were interviews – especially in the ORF, one must say – of critical journalists, in which “ZiB 2” among other things, and Ms Rosenkranz refused the answer in a form that led to a debate that apparently caused massive damage to FPÖ during the last elections. The response is that one goes here and a election report – in the afternoon we will have the opportunity to talk about this form; there is also a Green Member who was present at this event, who also heard how the spokespersons were usually held – that journalists who try to document such things are basically accompanied in a kind of het hunting, being disturbed by independent reporting. [[Call the FPÖ:... Crypto-Communists!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: What does he “document”?]] [[Abg. I can't believe it.]] I think this is extremely problematic in this country. And that the ÖVP is beginning to take part in this form and is beginning to praise here, which casts a very bad light on independent journalism in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11337	Next, Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11361	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A set maybe on this real or claimed ORF scandal: We, the BZÖ, do not agree with many FPÖ initiatives, and there must be a hard discussion about one or another. That's not a question at all. If there are undemocratic tendencies or people in the ranks of the FPÖ, it is justified to discuss, debate and point out that. But if the suspicion is in the room that one paid for a party elected to Parliament by, and I say in this case, criminals – because Neonazis is a criminal for me – because a state radio was trying to suppress something, then that must be clarified! [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is the journalism you want, Mr. Brosz!]] There really can't be any spark left! [[BZÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP as well as Abg. May. Gaßner.]] We can then also discuss this here in the House, because this is about the fundamental foundations of democracy, freedom of expression and the freedom of the media, which are respected and which are really important, but which must not be misused. On the agenda, ladies and gentlemen – the spectators at home do not know what we still have on today's agenda, because there will be the TV cameras off: After the Foreign Minister's statement on EU issues, which is of course an important issue, we have Agenda items 2, 3 and 4. Agenda item 2 deals with the safety of fixed platforms located on the mainland base, i.e. drilling islands and so on – which is of course “completely important” for Austria – followed by an agreement to combat unlawful acts against the safety of shipping, colleague Großruck. [[Abg. Großruck: No, it's not about that!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well, Neusiedler See!]] [[Abg. Großruck: No, it's not about that!]] This is also important for us: The Piracy on the Danube, Lake Constance and Lake Neusiedler is an important topic that we can consider here as Agenda item 3. And on item 4, I have already mentioned this, it is about the privileges and immunities of the European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecast. [[Call:This is important]] They are important, Agenda items 2, 3 and 4, are all right, I'm just not sure whether this is really what everyone really sees – including those we have to represent, namely the population. I think it is of the opinion that there are important things and there are also important initiatives that the Federal Government should bring in here. And the whole thing is only so striking because there are no items on the agenda from the Federal Government. It has always been talked about the past. At that time it was said that there are too many agenda items – well, you can discuss them. Now, however, there is certainly too little, at a time when we would need an effective federal government to bring in initiatives here that we can discuss that we can argue about that we can decide or reject, but where something is happening here in the House. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... we are there!]] - It doesn't happen. We saw it at the current hour: There are bad taxes and not bad taxes. – It is discussed in this federal government, but not about how we can work out of the crisis. A point would have been the transfer account; Mr Vice-Chancellor himself brought it into the discussion. . Very exciting, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, Mr Kopf, we have even made a request here so that we can discuss it. [[Abg. Head:... have it agreed with the coalition partner!]] – You rejected him! [[Abg. Head: It's done!]] You have rejected your own initiative here in the House because you have said you are in a coalition; we agree on an inquiry to discuss it! – Wonderfully, we did that, this survey has done. Now there is a stenographic protocol on this, and we want to discuss it today; we want to discuss your initiative, Mr Head of Parliament, here – you are against it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is difficult to deal here with parties and politicians who seem not to take themselves seriously and reject their own initiatives. We would really have liked to discuss that, because it is an interesting question. With regard to the motion of censure against the Minister of Defence, it is possible to ask whether he is justified or not, but to treat him as the last item on the agenda on the second plenary session, which shows already how little confidence one has in this Minister, otherwise one could go here and represent his successes and qualities at the best time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] It seems that in the absence of the same thing, this item had to be set up so late. And it is striking that, I think, 600 or 700 applications for opposition in the National Council are in the committees. They are not being treated, so we cannot debate them here either. [[Abg. Head: If you bring in the rejected immediately!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap says to me: A parliamentarianism, as you have announced here, in which we can all share the rights of the opposition, discuss important initiatives which, I believe, look different.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11532	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11553	Dear Mr Vorsprecher! Of course, we are now trying to respond to the needs and wishes of the opposition in the framework of the work of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates the work of the House, and to achieve a broadening of the possibilities here. [[Abg. Vilimsky: But very hidden! But very hidden!]] What you want, what those who now laugh, is that here inside determines only the opposition, and the majority who have been elected by the majority of the population has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can reject the requests, don't delay!]] Nor is this democratic, be it not evil for me, but the decisive thing here is always the balance, is the balance between opposition and the parties that together form a government. The control activity concerns all five parties, and that is one of the many binding elements of this Parliament, and I therefore believe that this should also be respected by the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer]] To the numbers you mentioned: Once there was the criticism, there is a flood of law, there we sit until 2:00 in the morning, then it has again said that it happens too little, then there is a public debate about it. [[Abg. Brosz: Requests for opposition!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – There are situations in which there are more templates, and then there are situations where there are fewer templates. And if a member of the government, like the Foreign Minister before the EU Council, makes a statement on this very subject, to say that this is a declaration of embarrassment, then it is absurd. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's what the ORF says!]] A speaker of yours just said that. If, on the occasion of the decision-making of the minimum guarantee, if it is here in the House, we want to discuss these with the report on distribution and performance-righteousness surveys, this is just a cumulation of issues that belong together. What's objectionable to that? – I don't understand! And if Minister Hundstorfer makes a statement tomorrow, then, I think, this is happening at the right time, because, among other things, the minimum security is now coming into the decision-making phase. – So that's right, that's what's going on! [[Abg. Brosz: Requests for opposition would be favourable!]] If we are discussing the Green Report and this is not the only report that is being discussed here, it also shows respect for the plenary and for Parliament, since this is a great deal to discuss. [[Abg. Brosz: Requests for opposition!]] - I don't understand the criticism. The fact that there is not always a 100% agreement or a satisfactory solution in the design of agendas is there as long as Parliament exists. This is precisely the natural point of interest that we have here and that we are trying to solve and work out in the Presidential – and there really in a largely good working environment and consensus climate. So that the spectators know what that means: pro and double delay. – The Committees, before something comes into the plenary session, have the opportunity to decide on something; then it comes to the plenary and is also decided by the same majority. [[Abg. Kickl: The last Committee... here!]] Even if it is not decided in committee, it will be put to the plenary session and will be discussed here. Of course, the motion for distrust against Minister of Defense Darabos – as he said – should come to the plenary. We'd have done that anyway! I think that's positive. That's an opposition request, so why are you complaining? Although he was rejected in the committee, he is being discussed here in plenary. This is a positive process. [[Call: You're adjourning everything.]] And in certain things, where one is not quite the opinion of the opposition, there is just a delay and it is still being thought about – and that can't simply be seen as negative! What you do not like is the following: You do not like it if we reject it, you do not like it if we delay it, you only like it if we are always for what you want. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can reject it; we want to treat it there!]] – But unfortunately this is not the case, because you are the opposition and we are in the government right now. I think, however, that we are still dealing with each other and trying to develop with more information, with more discussion of this Parliament, but you should try to make a constructive contribution in this context, because I think that is very important. Another point – this has been tailor-made before – is the issue of reporting. This is very important, and there are two things to respect: One thing is, it must be objective, and any kind of manipulation, whether in an electronic or a print medium, must be strongly condemned if it has really happened. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We don't need to talk about this at all: This needs to be examined, and if that is true, consequences must be met. If it is not true, however, I believe that research and documentation by journalists must not be restricted – if it is not. As far as I know, the prosecutor's office is concerned, and as far as I know, there are opinions from the ORF, and we will discuss this anyway in the afternoon, but I am in favour of this being a clean report, I believe, generally – democracy is also alive.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11728	Mr Kunasek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11749	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Cap, I think these 700 requests, which are waiting for treatment, cannot simply be discussed or spoken away here! You could vote negatively on these requests, which are postponed in the committees, so we could at least deal with them here in plenary session – so I do not know where the problem lies. I would also like to make a comment on the Committee on Defence, because I would like to discuss this motion for a reluctance today: If eight months pass to set a committee appointment, I believe that we cannot speak of good parliamentaryism, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] On the debate on the agenda and also on our motion for a reluctance concerning Federal Minister Darabos, ladies and gentlemen: We also want to discuss the total political failure of the Federal Minister in a broad public in order to bring the ruling abuses to the curtain here and not again to cast them as the last item on the agenda on the second plenary day, so to speak, in order to protect the Federal Minister. I would also like him to take a prominent position on television today or tomorrow in order to disprove the allegations that exist. Ladies and gentlemen! Our motion of censure, which we have tabled and which we have also discussed in committee, does not come from anywhere, but it is a request which is very well thought out. Let's go back some time and look at what has happened in the Federal Army in the past months and years, and let's look at what has come up with all these accusations. On the one hand, the evaluation committee has also found that the federal government reform, in this form, is not feasible and dead. It has therefore died, ladies and gentlemen, because we have too little budget, it has died because we have a Federal Minister, who is also working too little for the federal army, for the national defence, and above all - and this is really sad - because here, in this House, at this time – I look very consciously at Mr Prehauser as the spokesperson of the SPÖ – when we made a urgent request to ensure a proper budget, our requests, our statements of speech, but also the letter of the generals, the reports of the officer society have been laughed and made ridiculous. – Quote Darabos: It's going to be all right, we're going to do it! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Obviously it is not possible to get the federal army reform on track, let alone implement it. There are massive shortcomings in the field of training. Why? Because, of course, we don't have any money to pay overtime to practice accordingly to give our young ground defense servants the necessary armor for their orders in a certain period of time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a People's Procuratorate Report – and I assume you all know him as well: all the parties that are represented here, and all the delegates – who are in reality in desaströs for the Federal Army and for Federal Minister Darabos. This is also proof of our accusation, which we made here last year, regarding the condition of the barracks. It is referred to as the Khevenhüller-Kaserne, where the building substance has been unchanged for 70 years, where we have a military hospital where there is not even a lift, where we have a "Garderobe" – I put the word under quotation marks – which is an unheatable attic section. We have a Benedek-Kaserne, where young recruits, young citizens, have to go 200 meters over the barracks to reach a shower. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with opposition polemics now, but these are findings of the People's Procuratorate, and these are to be taken seriously accordingly. This also applies to Federal Minister Darabos. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent weeks we have received another disastrous report, namely the report by the Court of Auditors, which gives us the right again, stating that assistance in the current form is not only ineffective, but also too expensive, and is also due to the training of the recruits and also to the know-how of the cadre staff. And we have a Federal Minister who stands down and says: No, that's important, we need that! – perhaps also against the background of the upcoming country elections in Burgenland. That may be true, but I say quite frankly to you: An open and honest discussion looks different. There must not be a party policy here at the expense of the federal army! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this was a brief breakdown of the problems that the German army and the national defence have. I really urge you to discuss these problems publicly in the prominent time, too, in order to bring a little more light into the whole matter. I believe that every Member here in the House, to which the security of Austria is important, should be interested in bringing about a solution here. Another sentence on the ÖVP, which always leans back when it comes to attacks on Mr Darabos, Federal Minister: Actually, ladies and gentlemen, you too are participating in this game. Her former Minister of Defense Lichal says that the Federal Minister is superfluous, he should take more care of the sport and make the way free. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, please don't!]] They join in and actually support an overly demanding Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11820	Mr Amon has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11841	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has impressively demonstrated that it is not really a debate that concerns itself with objections to the agenda, but that it seems only this is a matter of putting an agenda item, which from the President-in-Office is just farther behind, on the agenda as far back as possible, because if you are dealing with the agenda objectively, then you will find that there is not really a reason to implement the agenda. I believe that it is very important for the Austrians to hear the Foreign Minister when he is here making a statement on the crucial issue. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This is not an issue you can wipe from the table, that is an important topic! And it is only right and cheap that, if the Foreign Minister is here in the house, points relating to the Foreign Minister should be put at the very first item on the agenda. They are always talking about efficient administration, red tape and the like: How efficient would that be if we asked the Foreign Minister to hear the first item on the agenda, then we would send him back again, then we would ask him three items on the agenda later, then we would send him away again? – So that would have nothing to do with efficiency and meaningful work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Then there are important proposals from the Transport Committee, ladies and gentlemen, which concern all Austrians. We will continue with a presentation from the Tourism Committee. This is even a template if I see the right thing that all the parties are bringing in here together. – There is really no reason not to put this on the agenda prominently! However, I would also like to write to the opposition one in the main book – because you complain, there are so many requests from you in the committees and these would not be processed –: We had a very comprehensive Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We have dealt there with 15 agenda items of 15 requests from the Greens who did not find a majority who were rejected. We then debated these 15 points here in plenary for almost four hours, and we found them here in plenary. Your requests are not majority. What was the result? – Shortly after that, you have made exactly the same applications word-identifiably again. That is what the proposals that are actually in the committees look like, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You have to take note of one thing: If one of your requests is rejected, he is rejected, then he has not found a majority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is then complained that the Protocol on the Enquiry for the Minimum Assurance of Needs is not presented here. – Because, of course, it makes sense to debate this together with the transfer account and not alone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Let me say one last thing, because this report on a FPÖ event, discussed in the media, is also being discussed here – I can join with colleagues Cap seamlessly –: It is unacceptable when individual employees of the ORF produce similar situations in which people – I don't know – are bought or inspired to write a picture that does not correspond to reality. This is not only unacceptable and unacceptable, but must of course have consequences, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] In summary, from our point of view: The objections to the agenda are unfounded and we will certainly not join them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11923	Next, Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e11945	Ladies and gentlemen! Why the agenda is so thin today, what reasons there are, that has already been mentioned. My predecessors also discussed the question of postponed opposition applications. Mr Klubobmann Cap has said here – I quote – that where one is not quite the opinion of the opposition, stop is being postponed. – But you do not represent the entire range of your reasons, and I can give you a few examples. We have numerous requests, which are clear from the discussion in the Committee that all parties, not only the SPÖs, not only the ÖVPs but also the opposition parties in this regard, for example, a request that my colleague, Judith Schwentner, recently introduced to the Committee on Women's Affairs, namely recognition of gender-specific occupational diseases. All representatives of the other political groups have said: A very good request, an important request, should be made! What are the government parties doing? - They're adjourning. Other example: Federal framework law on child care. Not all of them agree, but it is true that high-ranking politicians and spokespersons of the parties have already spoken positively for this federal framework law, but divergent between SPÖ and ÖVP. That is, the government parties do not agree. In the discussion itself, however, it was discussed that this federal framework law is important and that we need to discuss it further. What happened? – This request was postponed in May and has never been discussed since. Foreign adoption law: the law that should contribute to the fact that parents who adopt children are given legal certainty to contribute... – We have not improved this, Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] And you know that too! We discussed this foreign adoption law – i.e. my request for it – in the committee a year ago and discussed the need for experts to be heard and for us to organise a joint survey. You yourself have felt responsible for organizing this survey! What happened? – No surveys, no experts and those who adopt children from abroad still live in legal uncertainty. And you're not doing anything to stop this! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Community voting rights for foreigners, recently in the Constitutional Committee: The SPÖ has made a positive statement at other meetings in earlier speeches. We know that ÖVP, BZÖ and FPÖ are different. In the Committee, where we have dealt with this request, the SPÖ representatives who were present, who used to express themselves, did not speak out again, but contained a statement. What was done? – This request has been postponed without giving any reasons. I'll tell you: For me, policy means making decisions, making decisions, showing a sense of decision, and saying quite clearly here: I represent this position, and I do not represent this position. By delaying you do not show this willfulness and joy, but you just push things to the long bank. This leads us to have 700 applications, so to speak, in the pipeline, which have been discussed at times and not yet another time. And there is no clarity about it: Do we want this project or do we not want it? And this is due to the people affected by these regulations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is not just a question of delaying applications. It is also about the fact that committees do not take place at all, such as the Family Committee: The last meeting took place last year in autumn. Two weeks ago, another one was supposed to take place. [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Colleague, that goes too far! You know that yourself...!]] For any reason, the government has not made any submissions. All the requests which lie in the Family Committee and which could have been dealt with there have now been postponed to May again. The next committee – and it has been discussed very intensively in the last few weeks – has been: Subcommittee on Administrative Reform. Our last meeting took place in November. We have heard today in the current hour how important the administrative reform would be. We know that. We've known this for years. Not my generation. Politicians know that. All those who have been in the National Council for a very long time can probably no longer hear that, because the issue of administrative reform is a very old one. A subcommittee will be set up to meet even over the summer. The first appointment will take place at the end of August, and this is because a journalist has asked: When will the first appointment take place? Since November, it has not been possible to hold the last date on the subject of school administration reform, which is really urgent, because obviously either the government parties have no interest in doing something about it, or because they are afraid of it – and I feel that this is also very often a reason for the postponement of applications – to have to deal with the countries in discussion with the countries. And before you do that, you'd rather delay or don't let committees take place. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This is not the parliamentaryism I am imagining. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Let me make one last comment. Mr Hofer, whom I do not see right now, obviously left the hall, even if it is a colleague of another group: No human being is unnecessary, not even a Member of this House! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] The only thing that is unnecessary in this country is humane, hateful policy. And from which corner this one comes, we know.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12020	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12057	Ladies and gentlemen! I can follow the conclusion of my previous speaker and also apologise for this slippery that any colleague or colleague in this House is unnecessary. Mr Hofer, your apologies are coming. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Of course, there are always things that we can discuss and also improve in terms of working in the house. That's not a question at all. That is why the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is also preparing proposals. We'll think about it together. Of course, there are differences of interest between opposition parties and government parties. But in general, I always believe that we agree on a democratic, good, cultivated procedure. With regard to the previous committee dates, Mrs Colleague: The spectators don't know exactly that committees only come about – in good tradition here in the house! – if all parties agree to an appointment. It is very common for committee appointments not to be made because opposition parties do not agree to the committee dates. In your example with the Family Committee, for example, the date has not been reached because there was no date to be made by an opposition party. You should deal with the truth accordingly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] The second thing is the question of the requests that are postponed in the committees. You, Mrs Musiol, have said that we are here to make decisions. Yeah, yeah, that's right to make decisions. Only, I assume that we agree that decisions should also be well prepared accordingly. For example, we in the Scientific Committee have postponed a number of requests in the last committee – that is true – because we first want to wait for the results and discussion processes in the university dialogue, which the Minister of Science has convened and which is at least still running. The participation breaks down a little, but this dialogue is still under way. And then, in succession, even on the basis of the results in this dialogue, with the involvement of experts from various fields of higher education, we want to bring the discussion into the Committee and then discuss these applications in detail and ultimately make the relevant decisions. As far as the operation here in the house is concerned, I think that the electorate of us rightly does not expect us to process and complete a record flood of templates, but what we are rightfully measured is what laws we decide, what measures we decide, what we decide – and not how much at what pace. And we're not going to assess whether we're dealing with a mistrust proposal two hours before or three hours later, but how we're making the decisions. I think that the work of the Federal Government and the decisions taken here in the House in recent months can already be seen. [[Abg. Scheibner: What, Mrs. Colleague? Count up a little bit!]] We certainly have very important tasks to deal with. And that's the expectation that voters put on us. [[Abg. Scheibner: What decisions were these?]] We are expected to continue the fight against the economic crisis and, above all, the impact of the economic crisis. In this respect, very important measures have been taken. The economic crisis is not over, and above all it will not be over for so long as unemployment is still very high. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you want to increase taxes now?]] That is to say, it is very important – and this has happened in recent months – to take appropriate measures in the fight against unemployment, especially against youth unemployment. There have been important measures. A second, very crucial area is: Further step by step, it is crucial to take important measures to improve social security. We will soon decide here in the house on the need-oriented minimum guarantee, a milestone. They know that there are still too many vulnerable people in this country and, above all, more and more people who are working and unable to live by income from their work and who depend on additional support. We want to continue working for the future of our children. A lot has happened here, too. The New Secondary School is being expanded step by step. More and more children are enjoying better educational support from the New Middle School. That is, ladies and gentlemen: We are expected to tackle important things and decide on the appropriate measures. We are not measured by a record flood on templates.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12144	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12166	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The reason why we have to hold this objection debate at all is not just the BZÖ's wish that we should be dealing with distribution and performance justice in Austria – such an important issue! – not to discuss at midnight, but also to devote a broad audience – also with the importance expressed by the agenda – no, this debate is de facto also the expression of the state's standstill and refusal to work. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Otherwise, we would not have to hold this debate. Two government parties, who do not even make more requests in this House, a federal government which no longer serves this House with government documents, but only makes more lapidary statements, which it may have made in Austria in three or four years: These hours of history we can give up as parliamentarians. But the highlight of the German Federal Government's refusal to work is the activity of Minister of Health Alois Stöger, whom I would like to address now. Eight dead, more than 30 sufferers due to a minister who died on 14 May. On August 15, 2009, it was known that in Austria a product of Prolactal is in circulation, which kills, a cheese product contaminated with Listeries, and until 15. February 2010 was not active, did not work, quite the contrary, hid, instead of telling the population about the dangers properly. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, need not be pleased that this was a Social Democratic minister. Your ÖVP Managing Director Url, your ÖVP Head of the Duke are with in this Triumvirate of cover-up, which has led to eight dead and more than 30 sick in this country. [[Abg. Head: Under the protection of your immunity, you trust yourself a lot!]] I have a slow impression that these gentlemen have apparently deliberately made it that they have not even informed the Minister so that this chaos has been possible for more than six months at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: Let's get rid of immunity now! It's enough now!]] But at last we would like to discuss in plenary how we are applying in Austria – an initiative by the BZÖ – to combat child abuse in this country. Now I do not want to discuss over 40 cases of a religious institution, the church, spread over 40 years. Because that's all wrong. This discussion alone – and also how it is conducted – deceives about it and prevents us from having 7 000 abuse cases in the family environment in Austria. 7,000 abuses of children in the family environment, a real murder of children's souls. There is a child protection package from the BZÖ, which is smearing in any committee, instead of finally taking the opportunity to take more stringent measures in this plenary session: [[OBJECTIVES]] Increase prison sentences, no pre-primary detention for child abusers, including chemical castration, if necessary. Life-long must remain, and no limitation may occur in these cases of child abuse. Again: I certainly do not want to talk about the wrongs of individuals in large institutions, nor to perform political hatred, and to enter into the choir of those who believe that they can cool their moths here by killing a church or religious communities by discussing individual cases that lie behind for 40 years. It's all bad enough, it's all sad! But this also has to be clarified by the institutions. I finally want to discuss how we end child abuse – 7 000 cases in Austria – in the family environment and finally bring these child abuses behind the castle and bars. It seems that this National Council will not be able to do so if the government parties do not allow this child protection package to be finally discussed in a sensitive time, as it is now. Another area: A request from the BZÖ concerns the aggregation of social security institutions. – The Minister of Finance is sitting here in the National Council an hour ago, stating that there are now tax increases. 21 Social security funds in that country, officials, cash-seekers, Director-General and, and, manage the health system to death, at the expense of the contributors, that is, those who perform, do work in that country, and at the expense of the entrepreneurs. The government parties do not allow us to finally put 21 social security institutions together on three large sizes and defuse the administrative apparatus there. No, you prefer to go the way to raise taxes and once again burden people so that they keep their own staff's grains. Or another request that has not been discussed to date: the increase of executive forces in Austria. Crime is fighting over our country. The numbers of burglaries are galloping and the intelligence rates are falling, because it is precisely necessary for the Enlightenment of burglary thefts and thefts, in general, even personnel – and the highest possible staff. Since 2000, the position of the executive has remained unchanged in Austria. There's no way anyone can evade me with systemized planning sites – as it's so beautiful – where planning sites in the federal states are awarded, which are not even existing, which are ghosts. The reality of the Austrian policemen and also “meiner” Styrian policemen is another. Since 2000, there has been constant staffing – but my request is not discussed here! That is why I call on this government and also the government parties to use this plenary again for efficiency, for work and for the topics that really interest people in this country and which they also need, and not for side shows for the self-provoking of the Prölls and Faymanns of this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12249	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12271	High house! Mr Grosz, I think: One should not defraud people from here from the pult who are trying to do their work in order, for example in the Ministry of Health or at the AGES. [[Abg. Grosz: For example?]] I don't think we need that. [[Abg. Grosz: You don't need to evade that! Eight dead speak their own language!]] It's tragic enough what happened, and we should see that something like this doesn't happen anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the agenda, we see 25 points on it. You can always discuss the riding. The President-in-Office is responsible for this. It is in principle that a consensus is produced on and on its own. That was not possible this time. I don't think the excitement is justified. I think that if we have a statement from our Foreign Minister today as the first item on the agenda, this is very important at this time when we have an international crisis, a financial crisis that also has a massive impact on the Austrian economy. I think it is important to have a summit of the EU Council this week, where we will discuss measures where we will see that we support the Austrian economy. The Austrian economy in particular deserves 5 out of 10 € abroad. It is important that we continue to maintain exports and that we also see that the stability of the euro remains. If the Social Ministers come tomorrow, there are important points to be discussed, as I believe. We need impulses for the labour market. Especially in times like this, it is very important that we put such impulses. Such growth impulses can be set together with the Minister of Economic Affairs in the field of thermal renovation, where we can create many thousands of jobs, or, of course, in the field of craftsman bonus, where we can reduce black work and create new jobs wherever we can. I believe that the measures taken by the Federal Government last year – with labour market packages, with economic packages – were the right measures. Because when we look at Europe's comparison, we see that we are in a leading position everywhere, and that is, I think, very important. I can only say at the end: I think we are talking about people with our work, and we will prove it again in the next two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12327	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12348	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It would not have required Mr Brosz's speech from the Green Group, so that the whole of Austria knows how deep parts of the Greens – in fact almost all – and also parts of social democracy spiritually hang inside in the ideological superstructure of the Baader-Meinhof-Bande. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, it has done quite well to see that again and to get that in mind. That's what it looks like. Everyone knew that, but it got a new dimension. It is true that we are now entering the boat with Neonazis, only because it is obviously about adapting a political competitor. [[Abg. May. Honey: What is your spiritual superstructure?]] That's actually something I wouldn't have trusted you to this day. You've proven you're even doing that. You have also shown how hypocritical all that is, when it comes to wanting to maintain democracy in this country against alleged threats that are not at all present. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since I am already at the specializations, I also have to say something about the ORF and the live transmission that takes place at the hour. I think it is immense that the live comment points out that the statements made by my colleague Norbert Hofer here, where he was referring to the appropriate protocols, are the protocols of those Nazis who have been hired by the ORF. He has quoted from these protocols how the situation in Wiener Neustadt is, how this manipulation, how it has happened, and then the speaker of the ORF has nothing else to do but say that it is all wrong. Yes, it would be nice if it wasn't true! But unfortunately it is true, and that is the problem we are facing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is a hint of North Korean television on Austrian radio, if you have to take note of this! And when I'm with North Korea, ladies and gentlemen, I'm also with other things, where you have to ask yourself very, very much: What about political culture in this country? This includes today's agenda and tomorrow's agenda, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, it's a very, very impressive commitment to the affection of the red and black majority here in this House to their own Minister of Defense – the relationship must be very deep, that must be quite profound, that must be absolutely unshakable – if one has nothing better to do than a debate where he could actually spread out all his achievements into the last corner of an agenda. Obviously, it's actually true that you're not right, but we're right when we say that what he's doing is really nothing but a huge latency of misdeeds. Mr Darabos has not done something else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The agenda, ladies and gentlemen, is a whole picture of the pity and expression of the political helplessness of SPÖ and ÖVP. There are explanations, there are opinions. All of them – there must be no prophet at all – will have about the same larifari character as we experienced yesterday, namely in the speech of the head of state. Larifari can only be said: A lot of talk, nothing said. And I think it's going to continue in this tone. The statement was an example of this yesterday. In principle, our head of state, our President, is a great democrat, in principle, but in reality he is a great friend of frontal lectures. A discussion with a political competitor, where it is about the competition of the better ideas, where it is about the management and similar things, where it is about the burning issues in this country, he does not make this discussion on television. There he is too cowardly to sit at a table with Mrs Rosenkranz and see who has the better arguments for the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And again the ORF is playing! – Ladies and gentlemen! I call on public-law broadcasting, which defines its special position on the possibility of levying fees, compulsory fees, I urge him to ensure this confrontation. And if it is so that Mr Fischer does not come, then there should be an empty chair, and then everyone in Austria can take a picture of who is taking the discussion and who refuses the discussion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would be expected from a public-law station, but not from the fact that one is kneeling in front of the SPÖ for a supposedly extra-party candidate and is, in fact, the fulfillment aid of such a refusal of democracy, ladies and gentlemen! Let me tell you something about this thing in Wiener Neustadt: It is not only highly worrying what was done there by the editor, but it is also highly worrying how the management of the ORF deals with it. One should think about whether many decent editors at the ORF, who have nothing to blame for and who are doing their work neatly, who are trying to achieve objectivity, show a bear service by showing that they are now fully in Red at the Küniglberg and that there are no measures to ensure that the whole is not even examined. The only thing that can be brought together is to walle in GDR ways and dispute everything that cannot be disputed. I think those editors who are not on the feature film trip, but who really, when they do a documentation, have dedicated themselves to documenting and do not lead as would-be Ruzowitzky's director, who are doing a bear service with these things, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would have been nice if we had heard clear words from all sides here today. I am very grateful for the clear words of the ÖVP, BZÖ. It was no different from the SPÖ to expect: It was half-hearted, it was buttery, you don't know what it's supposed to be. I call on you to find clear words in this matter! We will definitely not leave you out of the drawing as far as this is concerned, and I believe the listeners and seers will not do that either.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12430	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12480	Mr President. High house! To hold this discussion in the context of an objection debate, where one of them knows an ORF scandal, the other demands the resignation of the Federal Minister for Defence, I can only say that all this has nothing to do with the agenda, has nothing to do with a debate on objections. It's just one thing here: One wants to bring his messages quickly in the best television time and never miss an opportunity to be on TV. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't you have any messages?]] I think this debate goes far beyond the subject of this objection debate. I can remind you that it is the opposition that refuses to give consent to two-thirds. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many applications? Two!]] For half a year, where the opposition is required to accept or reject laws, it has refused to cooperate for reasons of principle. That means you just want to block laws. In particular, in the Constitutional Committee you refuse the two-thirds majority. And then Mr Grosz talks about child protection! I remember: When we wanted to anchor children's rights in the Constitution, you rejected it for reasons of principle. With the Greens and the Freemans you have rejected this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is about child abuse!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I would remind you of your responsibility now, Mr Grosz. And now to my colleague, Mr Musiol, that is a very special case. I have offered 15 dates for holding a subcommittee on administrative reform, 15 dates! The last appointment has been blocked by the Greens for three weeks, three weeks! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's all wrong what you say!]] Only yesterday's vote came. And before you give your consent to the last date, you go to the press on Friday and say there is no date. So that's also very double-bedded if I leave for three weeks with the consent of an appointment and I'll report to the press shortly before that, there's no date. The same happens in the Committee on the Interior. Mr Pilz has written a letter of complaint that the Committee on the Interior does not meet – and what is the current failure to hold a meeting of the Committee on the Interior? The Greens' commitment, because my colleague Pilz can't do all of May! [[Calls to the Greens.]] So that can't be it: to complain on one side and then to contribute to the delay on the other. I think it's very double-bedded. To those fellow Members who absolutely wanted to address this issue, that they were going to deal with the mistrust against the Minister of Defence so late, and here they wanted to change some kind of political change. – Mr Commissioner, we have always pointed out that there will be too little money if you buy the Eurofighters, for a reform and for other important things. That was always the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And now you finally get on it – but you bought it, the freedom with the blacks! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, it was you!]] No, they were the liberals! There the Minister of Finance was even more liberal, and Mr Scheibner was even more freer! [[Abg. Scheibner: But this has nothing to do with the budget!]] So you were, and now you're saying that what we said is right. But that's what I'm saying. Your problem, that you're a little too late, that you're always a little too late to see the true situation too late. On the one hand, I think this is a double-bedded argument: on the one hand, the government does not bring legislative proposals into the house; on the other hand, in principle, it rejects legislative proposals in the constitutional area, because it does not want to work with the government to deny the two-thirds majority in areas where it is most urgently necessary, such as the anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution. [[Abg. Brosz: The children's rights are a buffer!]] This is a concern that you have refused all the opposition parties, and now you go here and say these important things are not coming on the agenda. We would have liked to talk about the anchoring of children's rights in the Constitution that we would have liked to talk about many legislative projects in the constitutional area that are currently delaying you. There is a very large initiative in the field of administrative reform in the Landesverwaltungsgerichtshof, which is already under consideration, which we will be discussing in the Constitutional Committee shortly. I'm curious about how you're going to behave. For example, tomorrow we have the opportunity to deal with the EU Treaty here, so that we can decide on the implementation of the EU Treaty here. All topics where the opposition can actively contribute! However, it does not do this because it has taken a principle decision not to participate in constitutional materials. However, there would be a need for constructive cooperation. To refuse this and then to say that there is no agenda, I think it is very, very double-bedded.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12649	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12672	Mr Wittmann, I shall try to remain quite objective. Maybe you'll follow me. – While in the United States the Congress, the Senate has been taking an important step towards the social state for months in an intensive debate, which will ensure that 35 million US citizens are insured, during this month-long debate, which has now been concluded, thank God, which I am really pleased with for the citizens, there is no debate in the Austrian Parliament, in the Committee on Social Affairs at all. No debate, nothing! Nothing! There is no meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Therefore, please do not come to me, Mr Wittmann, that you make an accusation to my colleague Musiol and say that there has already been an appointment the next day – and so on! For months now we have been trying to get an appointment for a meeting of the Committee! More than 70 applications from opposition parties have not yet been dealt with, and more than 30 applications from opposition parties of different matter – increasing unemployment benefit, emergency aid, which is supposed to be what everyone wants, but no one wants to do, nobody wants to treat – rest in the committee, so to speak. I do not propose this to the committee presidents, but to the government parties because of their inactivity that nothing goes on. This is at the moment the difference from the Austrian Parliament to the American Congress or the Senate: It's working there, not here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point. If you, Mr Wittmann, accuse us of blocking constitutional matrices, I can only say one thing to you Two materials are pending. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's right!]] On the one hand, we are dealing with children's rights, where you have brought back the same bad request that you have already tried to move on here in Parliament. [[Abg. Steibl: But this is just your view!]] Six out of 45 children's rights you want to fulfil – and the rest don't. For this, although I know that the SPÖ has always been in the past years – there has been a different state of government – for all children's rights to be implemented. – But now you say about the SPÖ: We are satisfied that six come from 45. And that's where you want us to agree?- Oh, my God! That's where you want us to say, there we are?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, the Services Directive. – If we had not had the Services Directive as a Faustpfand, so to speak, we would probably still not be so far as minority rights, as far as democratic rights of the Austrian Parliament are concerned. I say that quite openly to you – and you know that very well, just talk out here. It's clear: There will be a hard fight in the material implementation of the Services Directive, because there are the requirements. But let us discuss this in the committees! Let us discuss this in the committees, wherever that belongs – and not only in the Constitutional Committee! If we discuss the content of the Committee, we will discuss this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We'd have enough to do, just: For months, these committees have not met! Mr Wittmann, stop because one-sided debt allocations – which at some point agreed to the Committee on Sound so many times – have been made! We all know what it's all about: In the Committee alone, more than 70 applications have not even been dealt with, and more than 30 applications have been postponed. So, and now I come to the real issue, because we have put the request to put the Stenographical Protocol on the Parliamentary Survey on Transfer Account on today's agenda. This was dealt with in the Financial Committee, unfortunately very briefly. Mr President, I would like to say that I am not happy because I have spoken for about 10 minutes in the Committee on Budgets, and I said that I am going to be voting in plenary. - Nothing's going to happen in plenary! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Of course, there is some time in plenary, my colleague, but the real thing – and what bothered me, and I said that in committee – is: Parliament is holding an inquiry and advises on this. All experts say: A transfer account in the form of how it was addressed by Vice Chancellor Pröll, that doesn't make any sense! Please be careful not to take in the benefits, because then the transfer account will no longer be controlled, it will be a bureaucratic monster et cetera! - Wait, wait! [[Abg. Head: We never required that, the benefits in kind!]] [[Abg. Head: No, no, no!]] There is then a report on this – and then, after Parliament has not even discussed it, Vice-Cancellor Pröll and Federal Chancellor Faymann agree that they want to make a transparency database, which is the same as the transfer account, just now called “transparency database”. – “Thank you” to the SPÖ that you also call such an enning “transparency”, although there is no transparency at all. - That's one. But the real point is that Parliament has been eliminated. Yes, Parliament has been turned off and has nothing to say. The two, i.e. the chancellor and the vice chancellor, who were not present at this survey in Parliament, although they should have heard it, decide after the survey: We're making an account like that! And you all feel comfortable and say: Yes, it is really good that we have been turned off, that we have nothing to say; we really do not want to talk, we want to get together as little as possible in Parliament, we want to decide as little as possible because the government is doing everything so great – and that is why it is really best if the plenary session of the National Council or the committees is almost missing!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Head: I don't think you're taking yourself seriously anymore!]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is the real problem that we have with your attitude, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Now I have not yet striped all the other points, including this strange defence of the ÖVP for the incidents on the edge of strache events. In addition, only one sentence to the address of the FPÖ: It is not about the two or three skins, but about the fact that at every FPÖ event taking place in this country, which takes place publicly, any guy always lift his hand and shout “Nazis forever” or “Heil Hitler!” [[Abg. May. Stefan: Maybe you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You do it all the time!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's the problem, and that's the real scandal that you're still explaining: These people have nothing to do with us at all; these are provocations that have been set by others!, although they are their own functionaries. Go inside, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Call at the FPÖ:The ORF must pay for it!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Strache, who said two years ago that he is in favour of the repeal of the Prohibition Act, has now learned – and obviously he is now also in favour of the Prohibition Act. [[Abg. Linder: Shame! Incredible!]] In any case, you know exactly which of your officials and mandates to apply to.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12874	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e12896	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we have now discussed the agenda for about one and a half hours – and I can only say that the opposition is not about dealing with the real issues of people, namely how we create programmes for people to have jobs and jobs. For an hour and a half only to discuss the agenda, I think that in times like this one, ladies and gentlemen, I find this to be really unresponsible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also noted that the opposition obviously does not realize that we are living in a globalized world, wherever it is important to deal with international developments. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] I believe that today's agenda is very comprehensive, an agenda that is also about EU issues, because there is an EU summit and how to deal with the situation in Greece. But if there is no interest in European development, it should be said as it stands. It is important that we also deal with the question: How do we strengthen how we stabilise the euro? This should be discussed today. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I believe it is important for Austria to take a clear position across the EU. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also about the EU budget. Now the phase is beginning, Mr Scheibner, after 2013 to 2020, as it continues in the EU. How does the EU continue with these programmes, which are particularly important for Austria, which is particularly important for rural areas? If you don't care how many programmes there are for the miners, which environmental programmes will be available in the EU as a whole for rural areas, you say this out loud, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Abg. Linder:... for the farmers!]] No, it's not just the farmers! If you do not realize that many jobs are secured by farmers in rural areas, I am sorry! In Austria, it is the 500 000 jobs that are secured by the work of farmers. If you do not recognize this value, ladies and gentlemen, then you have not understood what it means to be politically active. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you doing for the farmers?]] If you are not interested in this, Mr Scheibner, that we also need to deal at EU level with how people, how the world's population can be supplied in the future, that there is a clear mandate to feed people, then tell them that you are not interested! [[Abg. Scheibner: I want to know now from you what you are doing for the farmers! - I don't hear anything!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, say something about what you are doing against the competition of food from Asia! I want to know about you!]] We are very interested in the EIA, ladies and gentlemen, how we can ensure food sovereignty in Europe, in Austria. This is a matter of food supply, both environmental and animal justice. And it's about jobs as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our task now is – just as Mr Pröll has done – to develop programmes, to develop economic packages to keep people in employment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are your ideas? Help agriculture at last!]] – We do this permanently, Mr Scheibner, because you have slept a lot. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not at all!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Nothing you've done! You have to answer for the farmer's death!]] We have achieved much more in the EU than you ever wanted to see with Agenda 2000. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have received more funds in Austria than other countries. A great success – still by Wolfgang Schüssel and Josef Pröll, together with Willi Molterer. Have you forgotten all this, Mr. Scheibner? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, what are you doing, the peasantry? Finally save the farmers!]] The basis for this good work for farmers is being created in the Farmers' Federation, Mr Scheibner, take note at last of this! Ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: No, you don't do anything for the farmers!]] I believe that last year Josef Pröll really went a very responsible way when he said it would not only help to save, but it would have to keep people in employment. Now we have the task of rehabilitating the budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: You want to raise taxes!]] [[Abg. Grosz: tax increases! Tax increases! Destroy jobs! Destroy jobs!]] Now we have the task of also changing our tax system to create a steering effect – with an ecological tax reform, ladies and gentlemen! [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] You are invited if you have ideas, Mr Scheibner and Mr Grosz, then say You do! [[Abg. Scheibner: No, to tax increases we have no ideas!]] We're curious if you have any.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13135	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13157	Mr Grillitsch, a speaker of the ÖVP's debt and tax increase party, is already interesting if he goes out, criticizes the debate and then makes himself significant. – It can't have been that bad. We have discussed a number of essential points. The main item was not the agenda. For example, Mr Grosz brought the Listerien scandal to the tapet, and I have already expected you to lose at least one sentence in your speech, or to agriculture. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is about the protection of the farmers in Austria!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] We are happy to talk about every subject, and we have also been talking about topics, Mr Grillitsch. I would also like to say a sentence: If that is really true, what Mr Kickl says – and I cannot understand it now, but we will make it certain – that during a live parliamentary debate here in the House the speakers of the opposition – and this obviously happened in the speech of a FPE member – will be judged by a moderator that the speeches are considered correct or wrong, then the Bureau of Parliament has a very important task, namely to ensure that democracy returns to this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] Because that can't be it, it really can't be! It can't be that the ORF strangles, turns off, and only transfers singularly, but evaluates contributions, which is part of another mission, Mr. Orf's colleague, does not belong to live transmission! This belongs to Dancing Stars or Singing Stars, as you may call and rate, but here you may transfer and leave the public rating, and you do not have the right to comment. I think that is quite, very important, that we note that too. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] Second statement on the history in Wiener Neustadt, which also concerns the ORF. I do not want to discuss, argue about details that have really been spoken and have occurred there, but one has to evaluate the facts. Colleagues from SPÖ, it is an undisputed fact – admittedly – that the ORF paid for democratic elements – in this case, right-wing extremists and neo-Nazis – and that was obviously paid by fee fees, because the ORF is largely financed by fees. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this has to be clarified! That is simply unacceptable. Mr Oellinger is not here now, but Mr Brosz is here. At heart, Mr Brosz! How loud would you scream when a judge journalist or a bourgeois journalist – I don't know if there's something like that in the ORF at all; a right probably not – comes to your event or to Mrs Glawischnig or to Mr. Ollinger with three left-wing extremists? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] - Sorry, you can't say that in this country, of course, I mean autonomy. These are the ones with the star at the front. The journalist comes and says: Friends, get in there and face the people, we film you; there you have 100 € in your hand! - I don't want to know how you'd scream. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I do not want to know how your extended hand in the ORF – that must be said – would react, Mr Strobl. There he misses any objectivity, there is no clarification, there is covered. In a case where it concerns you, the journalists would have been released for a long time. That is the reality in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] That is why I expect to be fully informed in this Causa, and that is what I tell you before 2011, because I am sure that a responsible board of foundations will send this ORF leadership and your Strobl 2011 into the desert. 2011, the year is coming, I am convinced of that. Before that, it needs to be clarified because we want to know what happened. State of the government – short to the High House. It is clear that we actually have a government that underestimates this House and produces and proves it daily and also receives the robbers from their government groups here in the House. Investigation committees are strangled, applications are postponed, they are ridiculous and people cannot be explained why. Finally, the Financial Committee had an application for the abolition of credit fees on the agenda, a request from the BZÖ and also from the FPÖ. Two days before that, the Minister of Finance and the EIA have called for this out loud. [[Abg. Head: Will come too!]] And do you know what happened in the Financial Committee? – Delay, not tuned! I wonder what people think outside if you vote in committee your own ideas just because they've been brought in by the opposition. [[Abg. Head: What do you think?]] This is not a parliamentarianism! Or: We have the highest crime, we have a chaos in asylum policy – and for six months no internal committee has done so. For six months! The last meeting was held on 5 May. November, the next one is for the 6th. May. Six months not an internal committee – is parliamentarism? Ladies and gentlemen! We can discuss job questions – please, we will do tomorrow. Above all, we will ask the SPÖ how seriously it takes it at Siemens' company, in which red bosses release workers, or at Mr Androsch, a red boss, who gives his comments and his mustard everywhere, but moves his businesses abroad. Then we'll ask you the questions when red bosses have something to say about how they deal with the employees. We can discuss all of this. But we would also have liked to discuss distribution justice in a prominent position today, because this issue has to be discussed. That is why we have tabled this proposal so that we can discuss the unfair tax burden, poverty in this country and how the SPÖ is dealing with it – and not at all – properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13284	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13305	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a good reason for us to debate the agenda in detail today – including on Austrian radio broadcasting – because the way in which the government parties deal with the opposition, with legitimate demands, with applications, has system. Any requests received by the government will also be duly commented on, transmitted, carried out in public with the support of the ORF – applications, legitimate concerns, topics of the opposition parties will be transferred to the night hours. The public should be given an idea which is in accordance with government, which the ministers put in the foreground and which actually pushes the legitimate criticism of the opposition parties, from whatever camp, into the background. For whatever reason, the ORF actively participates in this game – good government, evil opposition. [[Congratulations to Members Jury and Linder as well as to the FPÖ.]] This is not a coincidence either, but it has a system. I would like to say one thing: We should take this development very seriously here in the House, but also in the ORF and in public reporting, far away from current political power. I am very glad that the ÖVP, the BZÖ and also, in a sense, the Social Democrats condemn the processes, because if the electoral defeats – the series of the electoral defeats above all the S & D party – continue in this way, then you too could soon be in the opposition role again and be treated in the way you deal with the BZÖ today, with the liberals and with the Greens. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Linder.]] The ORF plays with you, and he has also played with you, if only I can point out that what the editors do in the ORF also have system. There is a letter from the President of the National Council, who tells her: “Dear Barbara, Robert Wiesner/Report plans a contribution to Ebensee for next Tuesday” – to remember: Ebensee, that was the incident in which the young social democrats called for a leadership through a concentration camp “Sieg Heil” – “SORA study, right-wing truck, etc. and would like to join you. [[Call the SPÖ: Don't vote! I'm so stupid!]] He clearly wants to continue the debate” – what does that mean, turning on, spinning on, for an independent ORF editor? –, ‘say: You should say something” – which seems to me similar to the current incidents in connection with the liberals – “what goes beyond the previous, something ‘surprising’. That you practice criticism is extremely concerned...” Then the press officer of his boss, Mrs. National Council President Prammer, advises: “We should offer something”, pay attention. [[Call the BZÖ: Unbelievable!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ORF editors, especially those who work in the political field, have a complete story in mind and base their own reality on it. And it's in Austria: If something is left, green is the position to defend the editor immediately. That's where everyone can make their rhymes on it. This is good, everything else is evil, and should not happen. [[Congratulations to Members Jury and Linder as well as to the FPÖ.]] What the ORF has done in this matter – and these are facts, supported by witnesses, supported by a police protocol – is a unique scandal! Today the Freedom Party is meeting, tomorrow it is meeting the Social Democrats and at some animal protection demo it may also meet the Greens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As long as there is the straw, that can't happen! But it won't be long!]] What happened? The ORF editor hired and paid for Skinheads. He picked up and dressed up the skinheads with the ORF car with the logo – with the car that is financed by taxpayers and payers. He went to a business with them and paid the bill there. The business owner of this military store has recognized and confirmed the editor. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] He put her in there, paid for it, bought tables and wired her.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13378	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13394	That means that's a staged story. We need and demand absolute enlightenment! Today it is the liberals, tomorrow it will meet some of you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13421	Mr Krainer referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13445	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strutz has just claimed that at an event in Ebensee, members of the socialist youth called “Sieg Heil”. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – That’s not true! Of course, there were many members of the socialist youth at commemorative events in Ebensee, but they never gave them “Sieg Heil” or other slogans.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13501	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall carry out separately on each objection raised. First of all, I would like to ask those Members who have the objections of Mrs Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Colleagues concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport as a new item on agenda 1 to put on today's agenda a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. We shall vote on the amendments tabled by Mr Scheibner. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of these objections, namely the report by the Financial Committee on the Stenographical Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on Distribution and Performance Justice in Austria: To put transparency and fairness on today’s agenda as Agenda item 1 in order to show a corresponding sign. – This does not find a majority, is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled by Mr Brosz. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of these objections, namely the report by the Financial Committee on the Stenographical Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on Distribution and Performance Justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness” on today’s agenda in order to give a sign of approval. – This too does not find a majority, is therefore rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[12:55:19]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13565	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13795	I inform you that the Fifth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13815	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure before the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed motion for a resolution No 1021/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Strache, colleagues on 'ORF-manipulation scandal'. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be put to the vote at 15.55 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13837	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Members, Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, have requested the Health Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 1014/A by Mr Grosz, colleagues on the Prime Minister's request in accordance with Art. 143 i.a. Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG a period of up to 20 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13864	Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues have, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requests that an investigation committee be set up to examine further the political and legal responsibilities relating to the ‘institution of black money accounts, lubricating payments and misappropriation of public funding by officials of the Austrian Olympic Committee’. It is that of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The debate and the vote will take place after the agenda has been completed. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13888	The debate on points 2 to 5, 6 to 8, 9 and 10 to 13, 15 to 19, 20 to 22 is proposed. No objections are raised, so we are doing so. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13913	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. The daily block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ is distributed as follows: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 88 and BZÖ 84 minutes. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I will now interrupt the sitting and resume it at 1.15 p.m. with the first item on the agenda, namely the statement by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, Dr Michael Spindelegger. On business treatment, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please. [[12:58:47]] Statement on business treatment
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13975	I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure and request that a special presidential meeting be held with the aim of calling on the ORF to deliver live the debate on ORF scandals beginning at 15.55 p.m., thus depressing any approach that the ORF would have reason to suppress the scandalous facts or not to offer them to the public. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e13999	We'll talk about it right away. The meeting was suspended until 1.15 p.m. [[12:59:48]] Adjournment of the session [[The sitting was suspended at 12.59 p.m. and resumed at 13.17 a.m.]] [[13:17:18]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on current issues of Austrian EU policy
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14047	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr Spindelegger. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take the opportunity today to give you the European priorities in Austria. to explain and then discuss it with you. I will start with what will take place tomorrow and the day after, the European Council, which will bring together the Heads of State or Government to discuss a strategy, the Europe 2020 strategy. I would also like to take a closer look at what has been said in the main committee today, and I would like to say that we can be very shared as to whether the European Union should quantify objectives in particular, how this is likely to be the case here. Decisions will only be taken at the European Council. But one thing I would like to put forward: The fact that there are a total of objectives, ten years in advance, that ambitious targets are defined, which are to be implemented in part through national action plans, we are Austrians, and I think this is worth supporting, because we need ambitious targets for the future, so that we can remain and remain internationally competitive and create jobs that are sustainable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me therefore make a few comments on these five objectives, which are being promoted and discussed in particular here! Some of these are objectives that are not foreign to us, because we are pursuing the same at national level. When it comes to raising the employment rate, especially the older people, that is what we want. If we are talking about the need for more investment in research and development, then the objectives we know are very well known, which have long been included in national plans. Overall, the reduction of CO2 emissions is a problem – we know – that needs to be solved internationally, which Europe also has to contribute to contribute to. We can also make a clear confession to this, as I mean. The question of the tertiary education sector, namely bringing more academics into the training rail for the future, is something to which we need to introduce a specific Austrian aspect. We have areas such as teacher training at the educational universities that do not grow into the tertiary field, although they are actually postsecondary training. I have also raised this issue internationally, particularly in the preparation of the European Council, so that we can count on what is going on in this post-secondary training, because we do not want to fall under the table in the international benchmark system, which we have already done. I believe that this is a specific Austrian concern, but it has also been granted to us by the Commission. The fifth is the question of reducing the poverty rate. There are very different views in the European Union. But I think that we should confess to the tradition of a social state that we are not just engaged in development cooperation, but are also addressing the poverty rate within the European Union. We are therefore in favour of this being supported. Therefore, we will be very constructive in the Europe 2020 strategy as a whole and will support the objectives. I would like to address a second point, which has many implications for us in Austria, but for the Union as a whole is a sign of renewal and otherwise. The Treaty of Lisbon introduced a European External Action Service, which is now entering the implementation phase. What does that mean? – This means that the European Union should in future have a different professional access. Currently, there are delegations from the Commission in a large number of third countries outside the EU. These are to be upgraded towards European embassies in the future, and as provided for in the Treaty, national diplomats will also have a place and can participate in these services in the diplomatic sense. We support this very much, but we still need a number of decisions that are not currently prepared to reach our agreement. We do not need a structure for Brussels and the institutions, we need a representation of the European Union that represents the Member States in the world. This is an important project for us, to which we stand and to which we are happy to contribute. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In particular, I should like to point out that, together with the smaller and medium-sized countries of the European Union, we have agreed, in concrete terms with ten others, to enforce our concerns in the context of the creation of this European External Action Service. We have put forward proposals in the working groups on how to consider balanced regionalisation and complement the training of diplomats in a meaningful way. Not everyone who starts in the diplomatic service in Brussels and has completed all the examinations in his national diplomatic service should now attend a new course. We also want every EU message to be a first contact point for citizens of the European Union in the future when it is in distress and there is no national message there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is unlikely that no European citizen could know that there is an EU message in almost all countries of the world, but that if you get problems, you will not find advice or help. Therefore, we will intensify our efforts in this regard and, together with other countries, we will enforce the fact that there are these first contact points in the European embassies. I should like to add the following to the topic of European External Action Service: We want these European embassies to include foreign policy – foreign policy in the sense that it is not only about managing something but also about reporting towards the Brussels institutions and the Member States in order to anticipate and respond to developments in time and to represent the European Union in a more visible way. The European countries are the world's most important ones for development cooperation, which spend the highest amounts of money on it. However, when it comes to implementing the objectives we are pursuing, even in political day-to-day work, there is still some need to catch up. From my point of view, this is a goal to which we must fully confess ourselves so that, as a Europe on the world stage, we can also play a stronger role in the future. I should like to address a third point concerning the neighborhood. We Austrians have a rich experience in our closer and further neighborhood, which we can use on European issues as well. I'm allowed to refer to the Western Balkans, for example. We traditionally have very good relations, and there you get the impression that Altösterreich is getting up again when it comes to bilateral issues. When we consider how many Austrian companies are investing in the Western Balkans today and thus creating structures for the future, this shows that we are now investor number one in many of these countries. That is why the conclusion for us Austrians is that in the future we should take great care of the Western Balkans. Together with Greece, we have taken an initiative to strengthen the approach of country-by-country to the European Union and to support the necessary reforms. I think that is very crucial. because we need structures in these countries, so that there is investment from Austria, that work and that ensure that there is not corruption in the foreground, but proper economies and an exchange with the countries of the European Union. We are committed to this, for which we are strong, this is a Western Balkans initiative with Austrian manuscript. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] But there are also projects that we see a little further, also towards the European Union. Together with Romania, we have launched an initiative for the Danube countries. This initiative has progressed so far that there will be meetings in Vienna and Bratislava in April, where the Danube countries will come together to make this strategy for the future more concrete. We have spent a lot of energy on this, and this project is gaining more and more momentum. We now believe that in the second half of the year we will be able to present a draft Danube Strategy, which can then be adopted under the Hungarian Presidency at the beginning of next year. In my view, this is a kind of cooperation that is new, which constitutes a kind of macro-regional cooperation in the European Union, but which, for us, has very important consequences for the future. Together with these countries, we also have the chance that we will be closer to each other, that we will achieve something on transport infrastructure issues, that we will place the Danube more in the foreground as a common binding element. In this direction, we will be strongly involved. The consequence of this will be that in the Black Sea region we are trying to get the foot into a new market. This region, we are predicted by the economic researchers, will grow very strongly, and we should benefit Austrians in particular. We also need growth markets for the future, where we can be present. This will therefore be a focus of Austrian foreign policy for the next ten years. Let me say a few more sentences on the Middle East issue! At the end of February I myself, on a trip from the Palestinian territories through Israel, Lebanon and Syria, have collected personal impressions and heard there from the interlocutors that there is a great demand for greater European commitment. I think we have to live up to that. Finally, the declaration by the Foreign Ministers of the European Union was made in the Arab world. Not only welcomed December, but also filled with concrete life. We have a position there, we currently have a situation where contacts between Israel and the USA are strained, and therefore also a certain opportunity to become more involved as Europeans in this area, so that we can achieve one thing: to re-establish a peace process that is absolutely necessary. The Middle East is generally a hot spot, which means danger not only to our region, but to the whole world. That is why, I believe, it is necessary for us, as Austrians and as Europeans, to be very strong in this area in order to contribute to the fact that a new peace initiative also has concrete opportunities. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Scheibner.]] I shall now come to a last point, which I would like to explain here, namely: How do we deal with this Europe dialogue in the future in Austria? I believe that my personal experiences have given me a certain approach to action for these years, but also for the future, based on an audience I completed last year, and a dialogue tour through Austria, which I started in the second half of last year. Last Wednesday I was in Tirol. I will continue this dialogue in Burgenland because I have felt that in Austria the high-gloss brochure is not required, but the direct conversation. But I know I can't be a minister in every community. That is why one of my considerations – and I would like to put this to the discussion today – was that at the first political level, in the municipal council, in every municipality of Austria, we should try to find a contact person who will support Europe on a voluntary basis. I imagine that in this way we are creating a rotary function at the first political level. We will not be able to answer all the questions there, but we will also receive the information in the ministry so that we can inform about current questions. I saw at an opening event with 50 such councils in my ministry a few weeks ago that there was also a strong demand. There was someone from all political camps. All the federal states were represented. I think this is a concept that we should also carry a little to Europe. I asked my colleagues exactly: There is nowhere in Europe. We should set this up in Austria as a project. In each municipality, there should be an EU parish that takes care of these issues, which pass on information, or take the initiative to bring something to us. I would like this kind of cooperation for the future. I would also like to ask the honourable Members of the House to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14222	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. We are going into the debate. I now come to the floor, Mr Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14250	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: Full support from the People's Party for the Danube Strategy and focusing on the Black Sea region. These are interesting, partly proven, in part new targets, which are absolutely meaningful. Also full support for focusing on the really important priorities. It makes no sense to duplicate the mistakes of the Lisbon strategy and set itself unattainable goals, which are not at all the Commission, but the national states, or even the countries that have to implement provinces in their own responsibilities. So in this sense: Full support! I really want to focus on the main topic these days, or on two topics. The first is Greece and the second is the concept of economic policy. Why is the issue of Greece really so difficult and exciting? – Actually, you could say: A country with less than 2% of the eurozone's economic power can never endanger the entire euro zone. The real problem behind this is, of course, the question of trust in government bonds, in state-guaranteed papers. And this confidence is the actual currency on which ultimately the entire world economy is based. The economic crisis two years ago was triggered by the fact that the banks no longer trusted each other. The national banks have no longer lent each other any money – internationally even less. The state had to jump in and, in part, took over huge guarantee commitments. And if that starts to wave, then a pretty serious situation arises. So we call the numbers: The European countries alone currently have about €8,000 billion in commitments, internationally and nationally. In this year alone, we will have to accept or re-indebted about €1,400, 1,500 billion in new debt – by the way, the Americans will have to re-indebted about €2,500 billion this year. In other words, the crucial point is: Is that believed? Is this guarantee of government bonds, behind these papers, a real value? And what if it starts to wave? – Greece is so interesting because the Greeks have imposed a reasonable and, as I believe, all supported and approved rehabilitation programme. If the Greeks have said A, then one must also say B and give them the opportunity to take over a credible refinancing. The term 'bail-out' is particularly absurd: Bail-out means you're buying out a country that can't pay anymore. - But that's not the point. The Greeks have not asked for it now because they are insolvent to be bought out, but they want to repossess – nothing else. The term Bail-out is completely wrong in this context. What they need is a credible, guaranteed way to re-debt their credit liabilities. The situation today is that the Greeks have to pay about 6 percent interest, the Germans 3%; we too pay about as much. That is to say, only this difference in interest will virtually destroy the entire recovery profit that the Greek government now has to achieve painfully enough. That is why it is so important that we not only say A about the European Union – wonderful, you have made a super-renewal programme, and we also control and monitor it with Eurostat and with the Commission – but also give the Greeks the opportunity to obtain a reasonable roll-over credit commitment. There are three ways to do this – much more has not come to my mind, and all the economists know that anyway; Professor Van der Bellen will talk afterwards –: One takes the IMF for help; this has been done. By the way, the IMF is a very established and absolutely in order international body that can do this; it has already intervened for European countries several times. The European countries together are the strongest single shareholder when calculating their shares together, so it is not an American institution that should be distrusted, but rather a majority of European-dominated institution, in which the Americans of course also play a major role. If one does not want to do so, then one can use a European institution, for example the ECB, which is also financed by practically national banks, which then, in turn, deposit national, e.g. Greek, government bonds as security. So either the ECB does it directly or the EIB, the EBRD or the EU Commission – this has already been done. The Commission has an approved volume of about €50 billion available, it has already used it for Hungary, Latvia and Romania; in total, about €15 billion are now consumed. The IMF has added about 30 billion, so mixed financing is quite possible. – It is true that so far only for non- Eurozone countries. All right, I think you can think about whether this is still useful in such a situation. Or the third possibility: One makes a bilateral solution, and Member States take on joint or individual guarantees. The Nordic countries have already done this for Latvia in a considerable area – about 2 billion. So there are enough possibilities for all these areas without any change in the Treaty. You just shouldn't let it happen: The topic is mature and should be addressed. Second issue: The German export model or economic model is currently being discussed very intensively internationally. – Ladies and gentlemen, we should also be concerned because there are only a few countries with a current account surplus in the European Union. These are Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria. So our model is on the test stand. The good advice from Christine Lagarde, which I very much appreciate that the Germans are supposed to export less and consume more, have less wage restraint, is absurd. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] May I argue as an economist: That is why he is absurd, because you must not be oriented to the weaker, but rather to the best, so that you can play a role in the global economy today. Of course, the statistics do, because, behind each export made by German or Austrian companies, at least 50 percent share of imports. That is why we have 15 000 joint ventures in Central and Eastern Europe, and with the help of these deliveries we make our exports. Even Volkswagen already imports more than 50 percent of what is then delivered under “Made in Germany”. So there is a significant share of imports behind each export. Second point: We Austrians export investment goods or machines by about €50 billion, and behind each of these exports there is an enormous added value added and productivity increase in the countries importing these items. If we don't do that, we won't help these countries at all – in no way! – because our exports, which are highly qualified, ultimately help to generate economic growth there. The third area is absurd at all: the fact that wage dumping is being carried out here as a matter of fact. Since there is a very interesting statistics – I think it has not even been published in full – a survey of the wiiv of 6,000 companies, carried out in Austria: Export companies and non-export companies. The somewhat hard-to-understand bars in this graphic mean: On average, an export company has a quarter higher wages than a non-exporting company and has about 60 to 70 percent more investment, more research and better productivity. – Therefore, please: To believe that if you export less, you have higher wages, is absurd. The non-export companies have lower wages, export companies are better in place. Last sentence: If so, then we have to focus on the best, not the slowest and the worst.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14390	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14411	Mr President. High house! I think it is a good opportunity, right now and before these two days, to see those in the EU. It is important to discuss important issues for the future of the European Union's development, to hold a debate here in Parliament too. Greece is a good start, as Greece addresses the question: What can the individual Member States of the European Union do, so that the causes of the financial crisis are not only prepared and mentioned, but also taken steps so that this cannot be repeated? If even in the United States this "moon window" is observed, where the democratic majority in the House of Representatives and in the Senate and perhaps also with individual Republicans are also trying to put in place a new financial market regulation, this is something that is also important for the European Union and to which the European Union is finally measured. I am speaking here of the confidence of the people of the Member States of the European Union in relation to the European Union, and I must say that the question remains whether sufficient action is being taken. There are still very large differences, and I think that is a serious one. When we look at this general trend, we recognize that the financing of public services is becoming increasingly difficult, the states are getting poorer and poorer, and vice versa there is a distribution process, favoured by the unregulated financial markets, favoured by the speculation possibilities, by which few become more richer and richer, through which ultimately the profits are privatized, but the losses are socialized. This ultimately leads to savings programmes that, if they are too large and come at the wrong time, first to the delicate plant of growth, which should lead to more employment and better finance the social and health state, hinder the prosperity, and the other consequence is that everyone continues to do so as if nothing had happened, the banks and the managers continue to pay their bonuses, the salaries are still excessive and there is no regulation for the financial markets in the final effect. Figures must ultimately be for the little man, the little woman, the middle class, the small, the middle businessman – they all have to “burn” it, just as it is now essentially happening in Greece. If Greece wants to do all of this alone, and if Greece is trying to deal with this now with the Papandreou government, not only will it be the structural question for the future: What actually happens to those who, for example, Bunker € 586 billion of black money in Switzerland? What happens to all these tax havens, where everyone is fleeing with the money? I understand that if you are offered a DVD with names and data of all those who walk across Europe with the black money and then landed in a bank in one of these oases, the German government is thinking about it and saying: Well, maybe we'll buy it, maybe we'll look into it, maybe we can face it this way with this transparency of this tax flight and fight it. It cannot be that all are getting poorer and poorer, while a few are enriching and even richer in times of the financial and economic crisis! This cannot be a programme, and many rightly expect the European Union to take effective steps here. And it is sad that the Council is now sad that a system for hedge funds has been introduced in the European Parliament: It is sad that at the European level these regulations still do not exist! We have also discussed the following in the main committee today: What cannot be the same is that, under the motto “More European Union, more, more central structures and regulations”, instruments will be used to help a policy of national budgets break through in order to promote or force a further redistribution process. That can't be a program! Since, I believe, it is important to start a discussion process in time in the individual Member States, as well as in the final impact at European level. Everything has to measure, and that is the question where, as I say, my previous speaker has not gone into the depths. He has technically shown what one is now doing – without touching the structures that have led us to have these technical debates now, how to get the whole thing under control and compensate for it, but the system question is not asked. If Obama himself in the United States is ready to ask the system question because he also says that it cannot be assumed with public funds that huge liabilities take place, that funding takes place to a large extent and that managers act as if nothing had been done and that, despite losses, disbursements in billions are actually justified to remember at European level. I would like to thank the Minister for his really interesting report. I believe that this has given us further good content for the discussion here. I also believe that those points, which are now being discussed in the European Union and are planned – even if perhaps not all are the same – are going in the right direction. However, one must be aware of what national competences and what the competences at European level are. One should not put latten where there is no competence at all, but politically ensure that there are national implementations. I believe that this is correct and justified, and that Austria can also make a contribution, although we know about the size of Austria. We should not make ourselves smaller than we are, but of course we need to know that an alliance policy is necessary here in order to set in motion this change of course and this debate on the structure and the system together with one or the other great one. The last point I would like to make is the initiative in the Middle East, Gaza and Israel. – I have to say, if the head of the Israeli government says to him that Jerusalem has the same meaning as Tel Aviv, and if someone there builds the settlements, that is equivalent to what he does in Tel Aviv, he actually does not want a two-state solution. But let him say that clearly! This is completely contrary to the previous course and discussions and is contrary to what the US and the four, the quartet, as well as the European Union are trying to achieve peace there. That is one of the roots of this problem, this contrast between parts of Western civilization and the Islamic world. We can't want to. This not only helps intense debates, but not just these eternal recurring calls and appeals: Now we're making a new initiative! or: Now we're trying to get new conversations, but that's where the tone has to change. There must be a change in the tone, because there must be a motivation here, which is then really decisive. I hope the subject of the talks between Obama and Netanyahu was now in Washington. I hope that this will continue to be represented by the UN Secretary-General, as he said. It must end this inhuman blockade in the Gaza Strip. I am still waiting for a truly objective report on any war crimes in the Gaza Strip by the Israeli attack at that time. I'm still waiting. On the contrary, terrorism must be combated at all levels. – and I have no understanding of the way in which parts of the Palestinians and Hamas of these conflicts are being conducted, there is no doubt at all, but if at a time when a new initiative is being sought, just as mentioned by 10,000 new apartments in East Jerusalem, that is no contribution to peace! I believe that the European Union is called upon to find even stronger words in this context in the future, so that peace in this region can finally be achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14496	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14517	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I should like to welcome the President-in-Office, Mrs Landesratin Barbara Rosenkranz, who attends in the gallery of the debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Barbara Rosenkranz is a courageous woman for Austria, who also courageously represented Austrian interests here in Parliament, when she referred to the question of the European Union Constitution, which we rightly referred to as the ‘EU Constitutional Dictat’, very, very clearly and as the only Members here in the House, represented the interests of the Austrians and committed themselves to the fact that there is a referendum on this issue, as is stated in the Austrian Constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Barbara Rosenkranz was at the time the only Members here in the House who did so, and all the other parties – whether SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens or BZÖ – have agreed to a Hurra scream of this EU Constitution. This shows how necessary it is that there are people with Courage who have the courage to represent Austrian interests. We have heard a lot of grueling words today, including by Mr Spindelegger – many things have been rightly addressed, but some areas have not been addressed, and I would like to address them here in the context of my speech. At the beginning we already heard the following: The government parties have said that it is a very, very important item on the agenda today that the Foreign Minister makes a statement here and then takes a debate on it! . But if I look into the ranks of the SPÖ banks and also the ÖVP banks, I can only say that there is not necessarily great interest in this ach so important statement and debate and why this should take place today and precisely at this time, as you have stated in the Presidency. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, I am glad that we are going to be dealing with a urgent request here today, on the subject of ORF – and I hope that the ORF will show the spectators on their own that it reports objectively and therefore ensures live reporting. In any case, I will prove that the ORF has ordered, committed and paid Nazi statistics. Everything documented and evidenced by facts, and it is even proven that one of the traders has received a gage of €700, just from the pot of the ORF penalty fees, and in addition, food and drinks. On top of that, the certain devotionalities were bought from an ORF editor in so-called Army stores – and much more, much more, that we will prove with facts today. This is a scandal in the field of public-law broadcasting, yes, of state radio, in the face of which it is impossible to move on to the agenda! I am equally responsible for those who are hiding on this today, because it is of course also the question of why Mr Director-General Wrabetz has not yet given any opinion on this matter and has not had any consequences – and this in the case of such a scandal that has been proved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just so much ahead: We will be discussing this very thoroughly today in the debate on the urgent request. Now back to the Foreign Minister's statement: Austria's foreign policy is basically and unfortunately God's only reason is that every director from Brussels will be taken over by you as Foreign Minister. There is no longer any independent foreign policy in Austria, and that is exactly what we miss: We liberals want to see the old, positively lived role of Austrian neutrality revived. I understand that the EIA has no interest in neutrality and that this has been turned off gradually, including with the EU Constitutional Treaty. Unfortunately, one has given up this good tradition of neutrality of God at all corners and ends, and this is a very, very sad fact, because that is exactly how Austria could get involved in the crisis and the problem of the Middle East: as a neutral mediator between the parties. Right there we would have great acceptance from all sides and could be helpful. This is not the case, however, because this Federal Government has the Lisbon Treaty – with the active support of all parties other than the FPÖ: SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Orange – whipped through, and that is why there is the development that neutrality has been carried to graves with this EU Constitutional Treaty – and many other areas are likewise carried to graves. Fortunately, however, the last word has not yet been spoken: We liberals have brought an action before the Constitutional Court, the entire liberal club with the support of the Carinthian Freemans, and the Constitutional Court has now at least once dealt with this action and has declared it permissible and will therefore also treat it. And that's good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This means that it is now being examined whether the consent of Austria to the Treaty of Lisbon was in conformity with the Treaty of Lisbon. We liberals say that was not constitutional, that was unconstitutional, because the rights of the Austrians had been trampled on and, when the Austrian federal constitution was overlaid or replaced by another constitution, a referendum in Austria should have been mandatory and binding on it. Barbara Rosenkranz, our presidential candidate, has acted precisely in the sense of the Austrian federal constitution. We will see how the findings of the Constitutional Court will look out on this issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In any case, the Treaty of Lisbon should have been subject to a referendum, but unfortunately this has not happened. This Treaty empowers, among many other points, the European Union, without the consent of the national parliaments, to adopt rules or measures to achieve the objectives of the Treaties, even if the Union is not empowered to do so. – This was held in the so-called flexibility clause. Furthermore, in order to achieve its objectives, the European Union can also levy its own taxes – something that we have always rejected in principle. Even the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union can be substantially amended without the national parliaments having to agree. The tasks and powers of EU economic, employment and social policy are extended to the responsibility of the National Council, although they were already developed by the previous treaties in such a way that the democratic principle of Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act was undermined. That is exactly the crucial point: We liberals have always drawn attention to this and said that it is a task of the National Council that has taken place. And that's not what we want! We liberals do not want a task of the National Council! This could also mean, for example, that EU-wide taxes, which are already being debated openly, will come through this so-called bridge clause, which means that this will no longer have to be decided unanimously, but that EU-wide taxes can also be introduced in the European Union with multi-vocacy. It could also be that we wake up at once and that the neutrality of Austria is no longer present and that our country belongs to a military alliance, because it may sometimes be that way and we can't even sit down for a while and that the Austrian neutrality would be finally passé and then we might also have to send missions abroad with Austrian soldiers. That's not what we want. We liberals do not want Austrian soldiers to be used internationally, for whatever military interests, for any party. We have lost nothing there, and we have not lost anything in Afghanistan either! Our Austrian soldiers are supposed to be there for border security, should be there to help in the event of disasters and to help the population, but please not for foreign operations! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On another important issue: Greece. It cannot be that Austrian taxpayers are now being pumped into Greece. [[Call the SPÖ:Kärnten!]] It can't be that Austrian taxpayers are now being pumped into Greece to pick up the home-made misters there. This is not our policy, nor our political understanding, and we liberals will now make a request to ask the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, to work to ensure that countries such as Greece, whose macroeconomic key figures do not justify a stay in the common monetary union, can also be excluded. We must think about it and discuss it; otherwise we will also be drawn into this crisis, yes, tore into it! The whole euro area in today's way is also to be questioned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not only Greece is facing a collapse of the state, but also in countries such as Spain and Portugal, similar developments are threatening: Developments affecting the European Union and, ultimately, the eurozone. Yes, how will we be able to cope with this in the future – without dramatic inflation developments on the back of all the other countries of the European Union?- Oh, my God! I mean, you have to tell people the truth, and you also have to think about how we keep the Austrian population as far as possible harmless of such developments. This is exactly what it is all about – and not pumping billions of investment into Greece. This has already happened in recent years. In the last ten to 15 years, there has been billions of investment, where we, as an Austrian net payer, have paid billions of euros to Brussels, which have flown down there and disappeared into some dark channels. So we in Austria have done a lot for this anyway. That is why I think it really has to be done with calling for more, but quite the contrary: The aim should be to stop net payments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In Austria, we should strive to tackle our problems here in Austria – the social problems, the labour market problems, the economic problems. That's where we need every cent, and we don't need to pump in our hard-earned tax euro somewhere else. This is precisely what it is all about, and that is why we will also make a request for it here. It cannot be that in the case of Greece one must experience that there is a barrel without soil in this respect, and the condition is likely to worsen even further. There is an urgent need to counter this! I think it is simply necessary not to give these assistances, as requested by the previous speaker, Mr Schüssel, today. I mean, you have to get out of this homemade affair, even if you're on the table in Greece. It cannot be that one has falsified budgets, has worked with budget tricks, the European Union has been lagging behind in order to enable American banks to lend themselves – all over the European Union! – and then the European Union goes here and says: As a consequence, we help you because you have said the untruth until now and have worked with such tricks. No one understands! That is why there is a different policy to be taken here and to speak in a different tone than the Clubobmann Cap has expressed. So I don't have much understanding for the political leaders who caused this in Greece. I really lack any understanding! Then you can also explain why so incredibly large protests are taking place on the part of the people of Greece. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: These were the conservatives!]] – Well, that was already a conglomerate from many governments that bore responsibility; there were already the socialists there, not only the conservatives. - All right. I hope that you, Mr Foreign Minister, have taken along some of the criticism I have presented to you today. And we are already very excited about how the Constitutional Court will judge our case.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14677	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14708	Mr President. Federal Minister! As far as the main guidelines of Austrian foreign policy are concerned, I have no objections. However, there are points where, as an opposition politician, I do not need to exercise your diplomatic restraint, and that is particularly the case with the situation of the European Union and the EU summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the European Council. Mr Federal Minister, you know as well as I – we discussed this in the main committee on the morning – that the so-called provisional conclusions of the Council – for the gallery on the statement: This is an attempt to clarify in advance what the Prime Ministers of the 27 Member States of the European Union can agree on – as thin as never before. Anyway, after my memory, I've never seen anything like that before, a paper in which there are only general places. On the essential points, Mr Schüssel, an agreement is not foreseeable. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I am quite clear from you that it would be important and correct for the EU to set objectives, which will then be implemented in some way at national level, but this point is lacking in the preliminary conclusions on the so-called key objectives of the European Union. The ‘Agenda 2020’ provides for an empty space. That means in good German, it has not succeeded in reaching an agreement here in advance, but it is just trying to reach some compromise at night – as is unfortunately very common. I do not think that is in the sense of a rigorous and feasible European Union programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Similarly, these provisional conclusions apply to the two sides on climate change, which show only that, after the Copenhagen Summit, the European Union does not intend to put in place any specific measures and initiatives, but sets them in time. In any case, it is not possible to read out how the European Union wants to get out of this Prisoner’s dilemma situation. That means that every state believes it doesn't have to do anything, but it would be great if the others did something. And if that does any state, then at the end exactly what came out in Copenhagen is happening, nothing at all! Remarkably at these preliminary conclusions – and I come to the main issue – is that exactly what we have been talking about for six weeks in a headline, content, out of interest, namely Greece, is not a single word, not a single word! - That's interesting. It would have been possible – and it would still be possible – for eurozone Member States to develop a programme for Greece together with the Commission. Mr Dr. The bowl has already described the individual variants that exist – or if there are, you have to say rather – in the meantime. Originally, the position of the EU was different. I would rather criticise this point that, over the weeks, the positions of the Member States of the EU and thus the EU as a whole have become increasingly unclear, blurring and any interpretation. Originally, in mid-February, it was said after a corresponding summit that the Union was ready to take Greece with one – we call it – aid package among the poor, without saying what this aid package could and would look like in detail. After all: This announcement alone has sufficed that Greece could subsequently issue a €5 billion bond, which had been credited three times on the market. In other words, the Greeks could have received €15 billion on these conditions, but on conditions that we would consider to be prohibitive from an Austrian point of view, namely 6.2, 6.3 percent – in this order – in almost double what Germany would have to pay for a ten-year bond. That was late February, early March. Meanwhile, the German world view seems to have changed. And you already have to be an outspoken sluggish to believe that this could have anything to do with the elections in North Rhine-Westphalia. Of course, such aid packages are nowhere popular, and in Germany they are particularly unpopular. It is now completely unclear whether the European Council in relation to Greece will be able to agree on anything. Federal Chancellor Merkel was of the opinion that this issue was not at all part of the agenda, let alone the need to be discussed in terms of content – with the formal argument that there was no application from Greece. So so far – but correct me if I see it wrong, ladies and gentlemen with government experience! – it was not necessary for a Member State to make a request for the European Council to deal with something, but it was simply decided to deal with it. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Then you don't know the applications!]] Get out! There is no need for formal application. This is nothing but a formal excuse from Chancellor Merkel. In this way you won't be able to slip through – I'll come back to that. Interesting and partly amusing, it is open to someone who is a bit concerned with economic policy and financial policy, which on the verge of this discussion has been debated: Curiosa, currencies, odds. In this context, for example, the German Finance Minister Schäuble proposes the creation of a European monetary union – a European Monetary Fund – similar to the International Monetary Fund. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Monetary Fund!]] That is a good idea, but for Greece, of course, that does not mean anything at all. If such a fund ever sees the light of the world, then it is at the earliest in five, perhaps in ten or in twenty years, but certainly not within fourteen days. Mrs. Chancellor Merkel has publicly speculated on the possibility of an exit – more or less voluntarily – or an exclusion from monetary union. – I really think this is a very easy-to-use speech. In fact, this called for an exclusion, a withdrawal of the financial markets. You have to imagine this: It is not only about printing new banknotes that the drachma is being reintroduced, it is about new coins, but also about the question of exchange rate. The question is: How will public debt, which now essentially amounts to euro, be paid? – You can certainly assume that Greece’s government debt in this case increased by 30 or 50 percent in minutes only due to the additional exchange rate risk. I've got to say, On the other hand, to speculate on the part of the German Chancellor – the political leader of the European Union's most important country of economic policy – this has already caused me a little bit of annoyance. On the other hand, the Greek Prime Minister Papandreou was not lazy in this respect either. Although Prime Minister Papandreou is personally innocent of this history, the new government did not come to the government until autumn 2009, and the worst mud has, of course, happened under the previous conservative government. But: New Zurich Newspaper headline of 23. March, from yesterday: ‘Athens are developing militaryly despite the crisis’. This is about billion euros for German submarines. On the verge it is noted that the Turks at the time ordered the same submarines because they had previously ordered Greece. Then they had the Turks, then the Greeks ordered one more time. By the way, the Greeks have already paid €2 billion without having a single submarine in operation because they have not paid the last rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] All this has happened in recent years. That has now been the case for five or ten years. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Conservatives!]] No, but now, Mr Cap, now they have ordered two new submarines, additional submarines. A submarine costs €500 million. After Adam Riese, two submarines cost 1 billion €. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Maybe it's a Euro fighter!]] – In the middle of the crisis? Do you know how high the military spending is in Greece? 4.1 or 4.3 percent of GDP! Austria has not even 1 percent of gross domestic product in military expenditure. This is already a provocation of future creditors within the European Union. For this I am not prepared to lend Austrian euros to loans so that the Greeks can buy extra senseless submarines because of an imaginary fear of their Turkish neighbours. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not so imaginary!]] - That's one. The second is what was not bad by Prime Minister Papandreou – that was to be read in the “International Herald Tribune” of Monday this week – that he indirectly makes Germany responsible for the fact that the entire eurozone could become a risk factor, namely because of the refusal of Federal Chancellor Merkel to talk about a “Rescue package”, a aid package. There it says: This could end up destabilizing the European Union – and so on. The Germans are now guilty of the Greek miscarriage? - Please! The Germans, like the Greeks, have already shot far beyond the target in this matter, both! The Greeks who pictured in a newspaper the Brandenburg Gate with the Nazi emblems, and vice versa the Germans who have advised the Greeks, they can sell islands or something else to free themselves from their mudssel. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: The “Image” newspaper!]] - That's all under the belt line. More interesting, but no less problematic, I found the expression of Papandreou in Washington recently: ‘Unprincipled speculators are making billions every day by getting on a Greek default’. – So: Unprincipled speculators make billions every day by speculating by making bets on Greek inability to pay. Please! There will already be speculators, unprincipled or not, but billions every day? That's ridiculous! Every day!Unknown term type: How many billion are these then for the year 2010? In addition – and that has now become fashion –: Who is to blame for the Greek crisis now? The credit insurance, the credit default swaps or maybe a little Greek self-indebtedness? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Zeus!]] That the credit insurances have increased in the price – yes, no, net! That Credit Default Swaps have risen in the price – yes, no! But this is a symptom of the crisis, which is a consequence of the crisis, which is not the cause of the crisis. Here, cause and effect are confused by making credit default swaps responsible for the high Greek interest rates. What would we do, then, if you wanted to lend a knownly insecure debtor a loan? Are you going to treat this just as someone who has always paid on time for years and decades? - Certainly not! These are risk premiums! This is not an immoral or a conspiracy of speculators, these are risk premiums that have to be paid on the market for a – we say – unsafe cantonists. That's the way life is. This is no different in Austria either. I pay much less for my mortgage credit than a friend who has received a so-called educational credit in desert red. In my case – I don't know anymore – €200 000 and in the other case € 20 000. But my interest rates are much lower, among other things, because the bank has the house as a security. This is just a mortgage credit, while in the other case, there is absolutely zero security in this educational credit. This is faithfulness and faith, that is hope, and that is more expensive. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you have a few more seminar examples?]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek interest rates are higher than the Germans, almost around the doubles currently, and higher, significantly higher than the Austrians, yes, that is unfortunate and this naturally increases the difficulties of Greece to get out of the mess, but that is the result of the crisis and not the cause of the crisis. And as long as the Greeks do not cope with the causes, they will not be able to get rid of the high interest rates. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] I therefore agree for so long because there are attempts in Germany, but also in other countries of the European Union, across all political parties, as far as I can see, to ban or hinder credit default swaps, this type of credit insurance. I think that's a nonsense. If you make credit insurance more difficult, you force creditors to go up directly in the interest rate. That's all. In the crisis itself and in the high interest rates, this will not change the least. As far as Germany is concerned as an export world champion, Dr. Schüssel has already commented on this. It is very funny, which is implied here by some: The Germans may become a little less competitive so that the Greeks and others, the so-called PIGS, become a little more competitive. – I’m sorry, in English, this abbreviation has settled for Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain. - Of course, that's nonsense. But first of all, what is something: No country can be in the long run – the duration can of course be long, we say 20 years – only export world champions. This presupposes that others are always only import world champions. It's not going to last. There's got to be a balance. The Chinese have so far – how am I supposed to say? – regulated in a refined but not inimitable manner by de facto lending the money to Americans so that the Americans from China can obtain Chinese goods. Thus, under quotation, this is “in the balance of payments”. Both make each other blackmailable. The Chinese can't go out now, even if they wanted to, because they have such high dollar stocks. – That is not particularly worthy of imitation. But what is right – in principle right, now quite apart from this small polemic that is playing internationally – is that, of course, it would be desirable for the entire euro area if private consumption and private investment in Germany were higher than now, because everyone would benefit from it. It is perfectly succinct to demand that the German wages rise on the spot so that the Germans travel more to Greece, so that it is better for the current account there. In this way, one will not solve the crisis. But a somewhat less restrictive domestic demand policy in Germany would be desirable. Where are we now? Mr Spindelegger, I understand that I would be doing so diplomatically in your place. Tomorrow, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann is at the EU Summit, and it must be kind of disturbing to see that there has not been any preparation for achieving more consensus in this regard, or the Foreign Ministers, if I see it correctly, are no longer present at these summits. I'm curious about what's going to happen. Yesterday’s headline in the Financial Times was: ‘Barroso calls solidarity on Greece’. – It demands solidarity with regard to Greece. Similar to the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”. – But a willingness to compromise on the German side has not yet been seen. Even the European Central Bank expresses a willingness to compromise, if you want to, this is extremely unusual! Trichet has announced that the Collaterals, i.e. the deposit of Greek bonds as collateral to the European Central Bank, usually from banks that receive cheap money, will be generous and will not prevent them from coming next year. This is the position of Barroso and others – if I understood the bowl correctly, it would also be his position – but not the position of the Germans. It is quite possible that we will be able to pursue Plan B in praxi. That is, the Greeks are alone, and then there are two ways: They can do it by their own power, or they can't do it. They will spend by April and May the additional 20 billion they need for refinancing their loans, or they will not make it. If not: What is it then? – Then they are temporarily unable to pay. We don't need to panic about that now, I think. Then what will be? – There are hundreds of precedents, Argentina and others, as well as the Austrian Empire during the Napoleonic wars. It then comes at the time of the loans, interest-rate reductions et cetera, precisely to what you do in such situations. It is unpleasant that the IMF will be used with certainty in this case. Why European policy is so afraid of the IMF, I am as enigmatic as Mr Barroso is. They have experience knowing how it is. It's a euro country, right? – If the European Union is unable to do so, Mr Cap, then it will be the IMF, which is simply consistent. It is definitely a loss of sovereignty on the Greek side. I would like to conclude by saying: If a country so goes into the mess, then it is inevitable to then give up sovereignty rights either in the negotiations with the IMF or in negotiations with the other members of the European Union. The more the reputation is ruined, the harder will be the austerity program, quite unlike this saying – is it by Wilhelm Busch, or who is he? –: If the reputation is ruined, it lives completely unfavorable. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] On financial policy matters, it is exactly the opposite: If the reputation is ruined, then it lives completely, very bad. It's not rhyming. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14917	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 15 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e14938	Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, before I come to your statement, two more, three more comments on the speech of the clubman Strache: I mean, it was remarkable that he talked about everything possible, about Barbara Rosenkranz, about right-wing extremists, about the ORF, just not about the topic itself – because he has nothing to say on the subject! In the moment when he's on the subject... [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Please, Hannes, make sure you get on the speaker list in the future, because you at least know each other. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr Hübner]] That's what you're allowed to do. To say – and it is good that the television viewer has heard this live – that the solution to the financial crisis would have been to conduct a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty or on the EU Constitutional Treaty is a... [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: He didn't say that either!]] That's how he said it! That's so far back – and that's still politely formulated. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, I recall the 1994 referendum. Does anyone really believe in you or anyone here in the house that at the referendum that you should have done here, not the same propaganda roll would have passed over the Austrians and would not have come out the desired result, as at the second referendum in Ireland?- Oh, my God! That's a system problem. This has nothing to do with what he has done here as a presidential election speech. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second preliminary remark: Greece, says Strache, threatens bankruptcy, no Austrian tax money to Greece! – Please tell him – you have gone from the EU to Greece today in the main committee – that I am right now, well-informed, how many transfer-performance billions, including Austrian money, have gone from the EU to Sicily – please tell him that, if he simply expects it, very simply, with very simple mathematical amounts, then he may have understood it and will not become such a nonsense the next time. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Once it's enough!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very different matter, but Mr Strache did not understand it, and yet he spoke. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Pre-Note Numero two – I'll talk about it immediately –, Pre-Note Numero two: Mr Federal Minister, your statements on the diplomatic service under construction are exactly the problem that the European Union is most interested in, namely the establishment of institutions, equipment and posts. There were 8,000 posts here, ladies and gentlemen on the screens, 8,000 posts! You can already imagine the range now in about cases when it comes to the division of posts between Member States, because of who gets how many posts of service, ladies and gentlemen, without any competence at all, a competence that would actually be felt by the citizen. He can no longer deal with his passports at any Austrian or other message from a Member State, no, we then have two embassies, one of the respective national states and one of the European Union. There are thousands of posts, originally 8 000. Now it's supposed to be less; I don't think it until I really see the numbers. That's the problem: Instead of dealing with the real problems of the existence of countries and economies, the next devices will be invented so that Mrs Ashton has a task area and competence. Now to your speech and to your statement, Minister of State: If you look at the two main problems, They have been addressed today, namely the issue of Greece and Europe 2020, then it must first be said to Greece that the issue of the financial crisis is a problem and the question of how Greece has gotten into the euro area, which is the other problem. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we should stick to the second question: How is it possible that a country with dilapidated – and I say: lying – could enter key data into this eurozone, with the key data lie? – Then the whole European Union wonders: Oye, Greece has quite different key facts, which are in crisis with the Greek economy. The same with the Italians, the same with the Spaniards, the same with the Portuguese, and then all do so and say: For God's sake, the stability of the euro is at risk! This has nothing to do with the financial crisis at first, but it has only become more intense and virulent because of the financial crisis. Therefore, consideration should be given to whether the European Union is doing a little more than just threatening to threaten the raised finger of Mrs Merkel when countries have effectively made a lie for years with false key data, a stability lie. I know countries that have perished, such as the “German Democratic Republic”, which for decades believed to be able to live with a stability lie until it was not even safe behind the wall with this stability lie. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That means that this is the first question you need to clarify: How to deal with countries that can even get into a political field? – Then it turns out, it’s all not true, and then suddenly the community must jump in! This will not be understood by the citizens of this European Union, throughout all the Member States to pay for it. That is why there must be a little more than just what has now been brought to my colleague's seat: We don't change the system, because Mr Cap is right, we don't change the system, we keep going and just look that we're somehow bringing Greece out of the Bredouille. Mr Schüssel, will you give the same speech when it comes to Spain when it comes to Portugal when it comes to Italy? The same speech? Or will we finally think about a system change or another European Union, as Juncker has already done? – Juncker has already thrown core Europe into the debate. Mr Cap has already thrown Core Europe into the debate, or Mr Pöttering has already thrown Core Europe into the debate. I call on you to consider whether or not this single European Union approach is still to be maintained against the background of dizzy participation in policy areas. We have always said that is not possible, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You see how inconspicuously individual large Member States are. If I hear that the British are vehemently opposed to the fact that financial market surveillance is tightened – and I am therefore on the second main problem – that the financial markets are more controlled by the control of the hedge funds, but a neighbouring country, i.e. Ireland, which is affected by the financial market crisis like hardly any other, and is also a candidate for intervention – Mr. Col. Schüsel, then you will be able to hold the same speech again – and then you are not prepared to change the system, but to continue all bank managers and all the banking devices, because at the end of the day it will have to pay the taxpayers, then the fun will cease, ladies and gentlemen! I guarantee you: If, at the end of the day, the peoples of the Member States of the European Union have to pay the bill by the European Commission telling them the budgets – and everyone knows where to save first, namely social expenditure, transfers for poor shifts; there is the most to get, there will most likely be saved – then you will have people on the streets, not just as at present, in Greece! Then not only will a few Radikalinski's cars be lit, but then it will no longer be possible to enjoy wide layers of the population when people like Mr. Michaelis and – what is the name of the other? – Mr Pinkl, nomen est omen, still believe that they can continue with their gags. This does not have to do directly with the financial crisis, but this way of thinking of managers and bank directors who believe as long as it goes well, they get into it, and if it goes badly, they move on because the taxpayer has to pay everything, this way of thinking, ladies and gentlemen, will no longer be understood by the population across all Member States! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I am telling you that we need to think about a core Europe. We need to think about a Europe in which we first work together to comply with rules of the game. Because the rules of the game that Greece has broken have already been there! We should not have pretended that rules should have been invented. The rules of the game were all there, but they have gone beyond that: They supplied false data, although there were control mechanisms, although there was an obligation to provide true data. Or is it necessary to establish in the European Union, in addition, that the data to be supplied by the countries must actually vote? Then it is as if it now needs rules for EUROSTAT at once so that we can control the budgets. I suspect that there are people in the European Commission and at all in the European institutions who believe that the Greek crisis can help to undermine the sovereignty of the Member States in general! Mr Cap, you're right; no, colleague Van der Bellen said this: I am of the opinion that those who have managed the way the Greeks have managed to do so must accept a renunciation of sovereignty – but not all! I don't want any more financial ministers sitting up there because of the Greeks in the future and responsible for his budget to us, and he can always say: Unfortunately, I have been forced by the Commission! – That’s what he likes most, ladies and gentlemen, but that’s not how it will go. The budgetary responsibility is still the country itself, namely the National Council with the budgetary sovereignty and the Federal Government with its political responsibility for the implementation, ladies and gentlemen, but not the European Commission, just because the Greeks have made “petite” and others. [[OBJECTIVES]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, a clear no to undermine the sovereignty of the Member States by the Greek crisis! Now on this paper ‘Europe 2020’, so that the television viewer can see what this is about: This, ladies and gentlemen – I must take away the last two sides because they do not belong to it – is the future paper, these seven pages are the European Council's document on the future of the crisis. [[the speaker holds a few composited A4 sheets in height]] It reads like a summary of the most banal placards; I don't know who wrote them together. After all, this is not even a crisis management, and it leads to the proposal – I may be able to give a few points of text – which reads as follows: This requires the EU to make rapid progress on all these issues. – Well, that’s rapid progress! In particular, work on the new European Supervisory Framework must be completed in good time – whoever prevents it?, this must be decided on in particular – so that the European Committee on Systemic Risks and the three European Financial Supervisory Authorities can start their work at the beginning of 2011. – End of the quote. Has anyone coped with such a crisis? – By the way, all of this is already provided for in the Treaty. This is just one of the many plattites, the plattites go through these seven sides. Mr Federal Minister, if I am wrong, I will abdicate, but please stand up after my speech and give me a specific measure in this paper of the Council conclusions with which the crisis could really be dealt with! It's not a single inside. It is generally pointed out that the national states should do this and that. It has been pointed out that there is a need for an overall assessment – this will be made annually about the progress we are making – but it is not a specific measure within it. For this, there is another paper referred to, a few measures that are proposed. I have to present this to the television viewer: In the future, the employment rate of 20-64-year-olds will be increased from 69 percent to at least 75 percent. – It does not stand anywhere, like, but it has been determined. ==References== KPdSU Party Conference in the Soviet Union: That's where the party has decided on economic growth, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next proposal: Reduction of greenhouse emissions by at least 30 percent. Reduction of school dropout rate from 15 to 10 percent. That is, if we have fewer school leavers, we have overcome the crisis. And the share of 30-34-year-olds with higher education needs to be increased in the EU average from 31 per cent to 40 per cent. If we have more academics, we have no more problems, ladies and gentlemen! So things are so banal – why don't we do it? Or: Reduce the number of people living below national poverty limits by 25 percent. Well, let's just do it! If the European Union decides to do so, it will also be possible to regulate this by decision. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know, that’s exactly what bureaucrats think! That has nothing more to do with ground liability, that is aloofness. This is actually inconceivable, and the inadequacies are expressed in these seven pages of banality paper, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the European Union does not focus on solving the major problems, namely supervising the financial sharks, taking the international banking institutions to the kandare, so that at the end of the taxpayers, it does not have to pay the money to set the limits for the bank managers, including their salaries, to finally do something in their liability – if it does not bring this together, then no one knows what we need this Commission, this Council and this institution at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15077	The next speaker was Mrs Plassnik. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15099	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to point out where Mr Spindelegger, the Federal Minister, has stopped, namely at the invitation to establish EU municipalities. I think this is an excellent measure to improve communication. I also hope that all of us, together, will equip these EU municipalities with the necessary equipment so that they can really address the issues that are related to the population. So it is all about support, and I hope that all the political groups will really get involved in it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would now like to address a future issue that is very important for all of us in Austria and in the neighbourhood, namely, the topic of the future of South-East Europe. Mr Federal Minister, you have also presented us with some concrete proposals. I would like to add one aspect to this, namely security, public security, and in particular increased international cooperation in the fight against crime. Europe is growing together, that is good, that creates many new possibilities for all of us. However, this also needs an intensified cooperation. especially in the fight against crime and corruption. Here, too, there must be new forms, new ways of cooperation. I think it is necessary for the internal and foreign ministers to make their way into the European Union, because there are several levels on which this issue needs to be addressed. There are also very different philosophies and tools in the area of police cooperation. It is about putting pressure on the European level, but also in relation to the neighbourhood, to those countries that are not members of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign ministers will continue to be responsible as the general manager of the European project, so they need to find new ways in this area and make better use of existing potential. In reality, the current security development policy has focused too much on border management, for example with the Balkan countries. Now it is up to us to stop crime in the future as far as possible. We also need a new quality at the police-strategic level, including in everyday coordination. The single demand for a re-establishment of the Schengen borders is absurd and must be effectively addressed in a different way. We can take a regional lead in what is already being thought and worked on in the Mediterranean area. There are France, Italy, Spain and Portugal at work. For us Austrians, of course, cooperation with our Schengen neighbours Germany, Slovenia, Switzerland and Hungary comes into question. The strategy for the Danube region can also be a good roof, under which we can find intensive cooperation. So, common cause makes no question about combating crime and corruption, including better border management. I am convinced that Austria can play a step-maker role in this, and that we can perform this function in the interests of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15153	Mrs Mag. Muttons. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15174	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, thank you very much for the report. It is good and useful if Austria is to be heard in the world, also as a member of the EU, or as a member of the UN Security Council, though temporary. Austria should pursue an active foreign policy and not just be an observer of foreign policy development. The UN resolution 1894 on the protection of civilians, which was unanimously adopted in November 2009 in the Security Council chaired by Austria, is a positive example of this. I would like to illustrate the fact that Austria should be heard in the world by two other examples that are up-to-date and particularly dear to my heart. The first example is Austria's commitment to a world without nuclear weapons. This is not a naïve idea, ladies and gentlemen, but a vision that can become reality and is of enormous importance to our security. An important stage will be the Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in New York, where Austria will also take a position. In this context, I would like to point out that we have a very broad political consensus here in the House. There is also a five-party proposal, which is also on the agenda today. The second example I would like to cite is the fight against poverty. This is an important foreign policy task for me, both at international and at international level. European level. Here again, I wish for a visible commitment from Austria through its foreign policy. We have called out the year 2010 to combat poverty and social exclusion, and we must not forget that despite the efforts made, a significant proportion of the European population is still in need today and has no access to basic services such as health care. Ladies and gentlemen! 16 percent of the European population live below the poverty line, and one of ten Europeans today lives in a household where no one works – one in ten, that is a very high number! But also work does not always protect against the risk of poverty, we all know the term working poor. There are more and more people who work and still fall below the poverty line. In most Member States, children are even more exposed to poverty than adults. 9 percent of all children are threatened with poverty, so 19 million children! It is therefore all the more important – we have discussed this today in the EU's main committee – that the EU's future strategy, Europe 2020, contains a key objective, namely to combat poverty. It would be incomprehensible and a real evidence of poverty for the EU if there were no consensus among the Member States at European level. Equally important in this context are the employment policy objectives which must be aimed at creating quality jobs in order to reduce precarious employment conditions and poverty at work. We must not follow the example of the United States! According to a study by the Economic Policy Institute, only 31 percent of male employment is so-called good jobs. Austria and the EU also have an international responsibility on this point. Recently, a study has been published which, according to more than 20 million people in Asia alone, have fallen below the poverty line since the beginning of last year due to the slowing down of growth in Asia. You have $1.25 daily at your disposal, which is really not very much! We must ensure that we continue to pursue the agreed development goals, the so-called Millennium Development Goals, we are already in arrears. This growing inequality, which also aggravates migration pressure, is not only a humanitarian disaster, it is also a huge potential for conflict and a threat to the peaceful development of the world. We must not close our eyes! Ladies and gentlemen, global poverty reduction is part of a sustainable European prosperity strategy, which is why the EU is committed to a fair and global partnership with third countries. It is also important that Austria is aware of its responsibility and contributes to development policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15248	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15269	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have just received the information that the ORF will not transfer the following urgent debate about itself, about the ORF scandal, which we will treat. In my opinion, this is a scandal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If a public sender who is publicly paid, who has now staged an antifa spectacle against Mrs Barbara Rosenkranz and partly also against the FPÖ, has now been led to install these antifa claims, namely Nazi events themselves, stage and pay for themselves, then this is the maximum scandal and violation of the legal order that can be blamed to the ORF! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now we have to go back to the statement made by the Foreign Minister. The Foreign Minister said something that pleased me very much: He said that on his journey through the federal states, on his EU Enlightenment Mission, he experienced that citizens do not want high-gloss brochures but political discourse. That's very nice. It is a pity that you have to travel to find out, because that should be clear to everyone who respects his people, but after all. I just don't think it's enough to say they want political discourse instead of high-gloss brochures. In particular, they want two things: They want to be able to talk and they want to be truly and fully informed – and not the propaganda they do not read on the high-gloss brochures, then served verbally. I also see this problem in the Foreign Minister's opinion today, which is that it is not going to go back to the critical questioning – an often used record – inconsistencies in the EU, but that all of this is well spoken and put under the table. It is not clearly said that this Agenda 2020, which has already been addressed enough today, is a collection of nothing. It is not clearly said that it is an attempt not to solve problems centrally by giving up some keywords and, for example, talking about the need for an academic ratio of 40 percent. I refer briefly to the subject of academics, because this is particularly annoying, a special evidence for this Liesch-Müller thinking, which is widespread in the EU and which is really selling citizens for stupid. No one can seriously believe that, with an increase in the academic rate, we are dealing with the economic problems! For example, a statistics on this: We currently have – I speak from the study year 2009/2010 – about 22 percent of Austrians who start studying. According to WIFO, about 10 percent academics are needed in the labour market in 2012. That means we have more than 120 percent too many students! But if you look at the offer of jobs – I say "jobs" instead of "work", which is now modern – it looks like this: There are currently about 1.28 job offers for a qualified graduate of a vocational school, a skilled worker training or a vocational college. There are currently 0.57 positions per university graduate, and per graduate of a Faculty of Humanities and Cultural Sciences are currently offered in relation to 1 to 0.02 positions. – So much for the purpose of these plausible demands. But also a second, I believe, in an unacceptable way, is deplorable and denied, namely the complete failure of the EU on its economic agenda, the complete failure of propaganda history, that the EU would have helped us to cope with the crisis or better deal with the crisis. What the EU has done to produce cohesion, namely the operation of the Structural Funds and cohesion payments to the less advanced countries, is said to have led to a solution or improvement. – On the contrary: billions were transferred to countries such as Greece, Portugal, Spain and the south of Italy. And what happened? The differences have grown. We bred a bureaucratic and corrupt hydra there. We have led the people there, the rulers and the politicians not to do their own economic homework, and just like African developing countries, we have spent the money we have not provided ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore dare to say that the crisis, as we see it in Greece, is also a consequence of European policy, also a consequence of the excessive cohesion and structural payments that have been made in this country. All this has to be said to the citizens. I now come briefly to the request made by Mr Stadler. Although the colleague Stadler has a deep-seat, low-minority complex and is claping like a Pavlov dog when he hears the word “strache” – yes, I like to take that, I like the order call – but he sometimes also has quite reasonable ideas and suggestions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Minority complex – a nonsense!]] What he has produced here in Central Europe has some reasonable approaches. We can share a lot, but not everything. If applications come as follows: "The aim of this module system is to involve the countries of Europe according to their strength, thereby speeding up decisions for the benefit of the citizens of Europe and thus ultimately securing the continuation of the peace project "Europe" – when such applications come, I can accept the government proposals immediately! They are a bit too vague and a little too much past what the citizens want, because they want clear answers. That is why we will not vote in favour of this, but we will make our own request, which is clear and which, I believe, is sufficiently justified and explained by the previous speakers, including Van der Bellen and partly even bowls. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to work to ensure that countries such as Greece, whose macroeconomic indicators do not justify a stay in the common monetary union, are excluded from it and have their old currencies reintroduced.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15364	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15434	I would point out that Mr Stadler did not make the request. It will, I suppose, bring in a colleague of his. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Brunner. There is no limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15460	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Dear spectators here in the house and at home! An essential element of Austrian EU policy must, at least, also be Austrian climate policy. Mr Foreign Minister, you mentioned it in a sentence: Austria and the EU are committed to the CO2 reduction targets. But unfortunately, it is not enough just to confess, we must finally do something too! I know that there are many crises that we are now facing, crises that people are perhaps more directly affected at the moment, about jobs or their safety. But the fact is: The climate crisis is one of the biggest challenges at all. And if we don't act now, it will meet us all directly in the near future. You can now discuss a lot and there will be a lot of discussion – about goals, percentages, actions, who is responsible for what and what to do, what mechanisms are there to reduce, how you can count on what tricks there are. And then, in order to quote one of my Burgenian compatriots, this becomes “all very complicated”, very technical and does not produce exactly what is involved. But what is it really about? I think we should take this into account in order to become aware of the urgency of our need for action here and how much we are required here. Climate change is reality. We have experienced the warmest ten years since the beginning of the records in the last 15 years. We experience more and more disasters, extreme weather events – even in Austria, when we think back to the flood events. What does climate change mean? Climate change also means for us in Austria that we will have more such extreme weather events, it will certainly have a negative impact on our winter tourism, there will be more drought, which in turn will have an impact on agriculture. That's where we're gonna have to change. There are places in the world, island states where people can no longer live. That is why climate change needs to be managed in such a way that it is semi-bearable to people globally or remains tolerable. To this end, science tells us that global warming can be up to 2 degrees, better would be 1.5 degrees. This is derived from the reduction target, which is minus 40 percent for the industrialized countries. [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop the fairy tale!]] – These are scientific facts! We cannot discuss a lot politically. We should therefore deduce our political action. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are also scientists who say the opposite!]] The fact is that emissions should have reached their maximum in 2015 so that climate change is still under control. After that, they should go back globally so that the system does not somehow become self-employed and we can still intervene. So you see, we don't have much time. Everyone has to make a contribution, especially the industrialized countries, because they have mainly caused climate change. We also need to support developing countries because they are the main people affected. These are the results that the Copenhagen climate conference should have brought. Only that did not happen, the result was very disappointing. Now we've been almost half a year after that, and it's still nothing! A further climate conference will be held at the end of this year. We can certainly not afford another conference without results, because, unfortunately, there is no plan B in the climate question, because we have no second planet at our disposal! The EU must therefore take a leading role in bringing the negotiations to a halt – because now everything is just increasing. We need to move here, and I see this in the EU's area of responsibility and in that of Austria. Unfortunately, what has so far been presented to targets – we see in the EU's documents – is not enough at all. In the best case, we will achieve a minimum of 2 per cent, in the worst case even a plus of 2.6 per cent – everything is not enough to get hold of climate change. There are also loopholes – I spoke of tricks before – how to calculate certain things without climate protection actually taking place. Austria, too, has unfortunately played an unchallenged role in this area so far, especially before the climate conference in Copenhagen last year. That must change at last! It is positive that the EU now has its own Commissioner for Climate Change. This is at least a signal which shows that climate protection is given the appropriate importance in the EU. Only signals are unfortunately not enough, you have to do something. I would also like to see in Austria that we finally have someone who is really responsible for climate protection and environmental protection, so that these things are not – as we see in Austria – constantly pushed between the federal government, countries and various ministries. It finally needs someone who really feels responsible for it. I would like someone who is finally doing climate protection in Austria! We know what to do: We finally have to switch to renewable energy. It takes clear steps, not just keywords and ads. We also need a proper eco electricity law, we need to get away from gas, coal, oil and nuclear energy and switch to renewable energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] We need the greening of the tax system as a steering effect, not a budget hole stop, and we finally need climate protection at home. If we do not make climate protection in Austria, we will not only have environmental damage, but also a financial damage – for millions of euros are already planned for the purchase of certificates from abroad. We must make climate protection in Austria, because climate protection can also be a huge chance. This would not only lead to positive environmental effects, but also to job effects and added value in the country. So climate protection is already a threat, but when we finally start to act, it can be a huge chance, especially for Austria and the European Union. Yes, the EU must play a leading role, and it must be the objective of Austrian EU policy to contribute accordingly. Austrian climate policy must have the objective of bringing the EU forward – but Austria must give up its role and finally take courageous steps here in Austria. Finally, Austria needs an independent, independent and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15538	As the next speaker, Mr Königshofer spoke on an actual correction, namely a speech by Dr Plassnik. I would remind you of the relevant provisions in the Rules of Procedure and give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15565	Mr President. High house! Mr Plassnik said that the restoration of the Schengen borders would be absurd. I'm actually correcting: The restoration of the Schengen borders is not absurd.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15592	Mr Königshofer, please! I referred to the Rules of Procedure. This is a valuation, and it is therefore not actually to be revoked or corrected. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Goodbye!]] Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15630	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, we had an event in the House of the European Union, here in Wipplingerstraße, and there an expert from the EU said quite loosely in an additional sentence: We have not yet completed our structural discussions! I felt that this was a dangerous threat, because, Mr Foreign Minister, we have been talking about European Union structures for more than ten years: first, about the European Constitution and then about the Lisbon Treaty with all the problems, votes and ratifications. Now should be over. Of course, officials in the EU and these administrative experts should ensure that the structures work, but at the political level – including at the political level of the European Union – we should finally consider what this Union, these structures and all these functions and structures are for. One should consider what action we need materially and not just always discuss structures, positions, posts and bureaucracy, because we have already heard that again when it came to diplomatic service. That can be reasonable, and I say: In all countries of the world, it is clear that it does not pay off, especially for smaller EU Member States, to have embassies everywhere. It makes sense for the citizen to have a contact in the form of an EU message, thereby saving the national states the embassies. That is exactly what has apparently not been thought of, because you have only – thank you – had to bring it into the discussion. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Spindelegger]] This has already been noted that this EU has still not understood what the citizens are talking about. It is not a question of structures, it is a question of really making sense, an advantage of this membership of the European Union. One should not discuss more than 8,000 posts – that would then be the EU's representations, which already exist, raised in the embassies, in diplomatic rank – but first consider what they should be for. There is quite a need, but not as it is now presented. Mr Foreign Minister, you have referred to a number of points which are important and which the people expect. One should not believe that with high-gloss brochures one can raise the awareness of Europe, but it is about content – such as in the economic crisis. Yes, people have seen that it makes sense to face up to such crises together even in larger units. But now one would expect one to draw the conclusions and make sure that something like that no longer occurs – for example, through clear rules against the speculators, against these competition agencies that have established themselves on the exchanges. But no, there is no discussion about this, and it is interesting that this country is the strongest braker – Great Britain – which now suffers massively from these speculations, against the British pound. So this is also a curious feature of the European Union, but we assume that there are stronger initiatives and that we do not always consider domestically how we can bring in the money that the speculators have consumed, but that these speculators are finally put into practice at EU level. This is the task of the European Union and of you, Mr Foreign Minister, as representative of Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On economic policy, I have already said here several times that it is not enough to think only within European or nationally. Some Europeans and also we Austrians – there are always that – still believe that we are under the cheese bell and that's enough. It is not enough, of course, because we are of course export-oriented from our economic structure, and I am still lacking the intense debate on the competition of the markets in Asia. The previous speaker has now spoken of climate change targets that we all meet, over-fulfilment, but the markets with which we compete internationally, such as China or other Asian countries, which do not want to know anything about these climate change targets at all. They do not want to know anything about labour law, as we have it, nor do they want to know anything about the same competitive conditions. This is also a task of a great unity, a strong unity, a European Union that simply creates the same conditions and, where this is not possible, it may also be possible to protect our own economy from these dumping organisations and dumping markets by means of dirigistic measures, such as protective duties. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The third point concerns security policy: I mean, Mr Strache, I know that is now your new programme for neutrality. Should be! You should actually know when you read the federal constitution and the corresponding comments that – and you can now regret it or not – the Federal Government of the year 1998 with the constitutional change of the kind. 23f B-VG has de facto abolished neutrality as it provides and understands international law, so you defend something that is in fact no longer available. The question is also whether in the area you have referred to, namely in the Middle East conflict – and this is an important matter – it makes sense to use neutral small states as intermediaries. There are rather strong units, including state connections and international organisations, which can actually implement and enforce something, not small units that just talk. This conversational tourism is already known. All possible people and institutions drive there, but they don't get anything. That means that this would also be an interesting task, and this is always required by Austria: not to act as a neutral mediator, but as a bridge, as a friend, also as an independent and quite objective expert in this region. Austria should serve as a bridge to the European Union and in the European Union ensure that the EU is more involved in the Middle East peace process and that it does not leave this matter alone to the United States – for what difficulties and influences there are, I do not need to describe here. As Israel acts, we have seen that, while negotiations were under way in Israel during the US intermediary, we have already begun to build the next settlements. So there you can see how seriously you take this matter. One thing must also be clear when I hear here again what we have lost there at all: I am proud that we are currently using 1,000 soldiers to secure peace – for example, at the Golan between Syria and Israel, in Bosnia and Kosovo. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Fichtenbauer is not here now, but I am excited whether the FPÖ will now always reject all foreign missions of the Austrian federal army, if one considers that we have lost nothing there at all and are only the border protection and disaster protection tasks of the German army. This peacekeeping is an important task of the Austrian federal army, because we also need to know that all these crises and crises do not stop beyond the Austrian borders. [[Call the FPÖ: Chad!]] Not the Mozart balls defend us, not any party programs of the Freedom Party, where this may be inside, but it is about maintaining an active foreign and security policy, where one not only manages, but manages and shows people in the crisis regions that there is also a better economic situation in democracy and peace – and thus we also guarantee our own security. The Middle East, Mr Foreign Minister, has a key role to play, because if the Middle East conflict is resolved – and to do so one has to put pressure on all those involved – at least the terrorists throughout the world have no excuse and no pretext for their activities, namely that they really only want to help the poor Palestinians. Mr Foreign Minister, this is a whole series of points where we hope that you too, that Austria will become even more active than before. The European Union is missing much of what it would expect. One last thing – because we also discussed it – is the savings in the resorts. I am very sorry that this federal government is now trying to get money without thinking about where to set real priorities. In a miniressort such as the foreign office, I think that I am not reasonable and impossible to put the pen across it, and to say that you now have 3 percent, or whatever, to save. Mr Foreign Minister, if we are already thinking about the Middle East as an important area here in Austria, I hope that if you think in future of embassies, they will not take place in the Arab region, but perhaps where it is useful, namely: In the European Union's micro-regions, it is certainly necessary to question – so that we can also have a savings effect on the European Union – whether we need all the embassies there, or also in Zimbabwe – there might be a political signal to be put against this terror there, but not in the areas of hope and in regions where we have real friends.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15702	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Molterer's word. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15726	Federal Minister! Mr President. In view of the discussion we were discussing three hours ago, I think that we were right about this agenda, because it has not been discussed in this House for a long time as intensively as it has been discussed about Europe. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this statement that we now also have the opportunity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The problem points come first!]] This European Union – and the Council, which will take place in the next two days – is, of course, under the influence of the economic crisis, we do not have to make any proposals. The European Union has passed a test. The European Union has responded correctly in the crisis: with the framework for bank stabilisation, with the framework for the economic and upturn packages and with the instrument of the European Central Bank. But it must be equally clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the next test of the European Union is actually in front of us, yes, we are in the middle of it. So I see OeNB Governor Nowotny as a hundred percent right, we are not one year after the crisis, but we are three of the crisis in the year. No one can say today that the crisis is over – who does so is irresponsible – but the real task of this difficult time of the European test, the real one, is that we are taking the right steps now, and that will be the task of the summit, in this sense too. I am very much in favour of discussing this strategy not only ‘Europe 2020’ but also implementing it, but also with openness – and I am very grateful that this has happened with the statement of the Foreign Minister – to really question our objectives. I mean, very dry, 40 percent academic rate sounds good, but who cares about the sufficient quota of qualified skilled workers, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Go into the businesses and the economy! They will tell you that the qualified skilled worker is as important for export success as the academic, the master is worth as much as the master. It is important that we also talk about how the Member States meet these objectives. What is Lisbon? It was important, but the weakness of Lisbon was that the strategy was on paper, but what has happened in the Member States has not been adequately reviewed, even with us. This issue of governance rules is an important issue when we talk about Europe 2020. Secondly, we should talk about strengthening monetary union, ladies and gentlemen. The single currency, the euro, has proved itself in the crisis, and anyone who goes out here and claims the opposite says either consciously the untruth or he understands nothing of the matter. I ask and recommend today the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, page 8, where Theo Waigel writes about the importance of the euro and monetary union. It's worth reading, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is equally clear, however, that the Maastricht criteria will no longer be met, and the issue of the coherence of economic policies will be examined. This morning in the “Morgenjournal”, Norbert Walter, Chief Economist of Deutsche Bank, gave a wonderful example: As long as Europe acts in such a way that France supports the spray prices for the freighters and introduces a truck toll in Germany, it will not work for so long. It will be necessary for us not to look at the question of the accession of new countries to the euro area, but to comply very closely with the criteria. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is such a test case, a test sample for the eurozone. Europe cannot escape solidarity, no more than Greece can evade its responsibility, no question – but anyone talking about withdrawal is in fact weakening this euro zone, that is wrong. The question of withdrawal has also been raised by Mr Strache, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today. Today, please read in the “Wiener Zeitung” the wonderful analysis of oak green, which would happen if the eurozone left. He says that precisely the eurozone and the stability of the currency might thus be finally weakened. Such a thing is a false signal. On the contrary: It is right to pay attention to the criteria. [[Call the FPÖ:... Deutsche Bank!]] Third point: I believe that we - and, Mr Foreign Minister, I would ask you to see this - must adhere to the European Union's exit strategy and consolidation strategy as well as to bank stabilisation and economic programmes. I also think that we need to intensify the pace and depth of financial market reform. What happened there is disappointing – quite frankly. We have been discussing new rules in financial markets for a year and a half, and unfortunately there is too little. As long as it is possible that Mr Brown, British Prime Minister, Mr Zapatero, Spanish Prime Minister – namely a Social Democratic – calls and then the regulation of hedge funds is taken from the Ecofin agenda cannot work. We must take ourselves more seriously, then we are able to pass the test – and only a strong Europe will help us.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15794	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15815	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has put the financial and economic crisis at the heart of his speech. I would now like to quote the President of the Commission Barroso, who spoke about it – in the presence of the Vice-President of the Commission, Viviane Reding – that the overcoming of the crisis is only possible with women. I am also convinced that we in the European Union must take equality policy seriously, take it more seriously, and not only in the European Union, Mr Minister, but also here in our own country, we must continue to be more active. It already hurts – as a women's politician, also here in Austria – if we are threatened by the European Commission that Austria is in the house in relation to infringement proceedings, because three countries have failed to comply with the equal treatment directive or have not responded to the European Commission's requests. It has already been said today that we also need appropriate qualitative and quantitative targets in the various Member States in order to be able to carry out a monitoring process, i.e. review procedures in the respective countries. What do we want? What does the President of the Commission wish? What does the Commissioner for Justice, Reding, want from the Member States, from the European Union as a whole? – There are five main objectives, and these are set out in the so-called EU Charter for Women. These objectives are important, good, right and necessary In order to overcome this crisis in order to make Europe more sexually more democratic, women also find their place in this European Union. The Charter first deals with equality in the labour market and economic independence for women and men, which has to be promoted under the EU 2020 strategy. Then the old, ancient demand: Equal pay for equal work, for equivalent work! Action should be taken at European level, but of course also here in the country with a national action plan. This is enshrined in the Coalition Agreement and will also be done. I hope that in the future, with our wage injustice seen in income statistics, we will no longer land where we have landed, third in the European ranking. So we need measures. Let us look at the way other countries do, for example, Sweden with income transparency, so that at last more justice in the labour market can be achieved. It is also about promoting women in decision-making positions accordingly. Norway, for example, has a 40 percent female ratio in the Supervisory Boards. This would be speeded up and would facilitate the enforcement of more justice. On the question of the protection of violence: Violence against women must be fought more strongly. On this point we could even export our measures. We have good models, and they can use other countries as an example and a model. We have a lot to show, but we must not let it down. Then, of course, and you, Mr Federal Minister, have also announced this in your statement, equality should not only be promoted in the European Union, but in principle and worldwide. This should therefore be mixed into our international relations in general if I may say so. I'd wish you all that! This is also a question of having targets, which are the real targets of the Barcelona Strategy and of the Barcelona Directive at the time. The Member States knew exactly what they were doing: Childcare for 33 percent of children under the age of three should be provided; Childcare is to be provided for 90 percent of children over three years of age. It is therefore a question of defining how income shears will develop in the future to set precise targets so that an appropriate monitoring process can be carried out by the European Union in its Member States. That would be a good directive, a good rule. I hope that we will continue to move where we should go, namely to a democratic society, and that means more equality for men and women in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15876	The next speaker was Mr Kurzmann. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The euro has been under pressure – and this has already been mentioned several times today – because of the Greek financial crisis. The Greek government bonds are, as it were, in the open case. A price fall on the European exchanges will no longer be excluded, and the large European For weeks, newspapers have reported that Greece and Athens are threatening state bankruptcy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the framework under which tomorrow the Heads of State and Government of the European States meet in Brussels. The threatening state pleite of Greece is not only to be discussed but also to be averted. Mr Molterer said: This will be a test case for Europe. As an Austrian, ladies and gentlemen, we already have to ask ourselves the question: What will the Austrian taxpayer cost the trip of the Austrian Chancellor to Brussels? Does the Austrian tax money have to be used again for a foreign state, for the mismanagement that we can observe in another state, namely in Greece? Or should we not rather think of creating a Europe of two speeds, namely those who are economically prosperating, and those who are not able to take part in the development of how we find it in Central Europe? The German Chancellor Merkel said until yesterday that she cannot imagine direct payments to Greece, to Athens. But yesterday, interestingly, quite different sounds came from France. It was said that if you want to prevent a fire on the surface, the European Union now has to jump in. There is already the question: What happens if in three, four months maybe the next candidate starts to wake up? What if Portugal is in trouble? What happens if Spain has economic difficulties? Will the Austrian Chancellor then travel to Brussels again with the large black suitcase to the European Union? We cannot continue to move summaries of Austrian tax money to other countries and use it there for a state – from Greece we know – where tax evasion is going and where corruption and the vet economy dominates politics and public life as well. We liberals say that clearly and clearly no. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No other Austrian money for a political caste, such as the Greek political caste, that reports budget data to Brussels for decades! No other Austrian tax money for a state that, with hidden loans from American banks, is always beautiful and concealing its precarious financial situation vis-à-vis the European Union! On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen: We need the money in our own country in times of economic crisis. Last year, over 50,000 people were unemployed in Styria. We therefore need a significant reduction in our EU payments. The Foreign Minister and all those responsible should take an example of the clear attitude of the British: Since 1984 they have had the so-called British Discount. They have negotiated properly and have taken out a maximum for their own country. This, ladies and gentlemen, we also expect from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15955	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e15976	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Jörg Haider was right when he had the euro very much at the time considered carefully and started a schilling folk desire. As he did, it is now evident from the example of Greece that the euro has become destabilised. We do not yet know how this is going to be done, but other states, as it is currently happening, should follow. They're already wondering: Where is the stability that has always been assured to us by the then government of Black and Red? This can only be seen by the citizen, the Austrian citizen. I believe – I do not want to put the word “lying” in my mouth – that has become dizzy here, ladies and gentlemen. If we hear today that Greece has now supplied false data for decades, we have known that, but you have taken it. That's not how it can be, ladies and gentlemen! That is why we from BZÖ have long called for a core Europe of net payers. I would also like to have a motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. To introduce Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a core Europe against the background of the budget and financial disaster in Greece. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs are invited to work at European level for the implementation of the following measures in the interests of a Europe of citizens’ peace and prosperity:...” The request is available to you. That's why I'm not going to read it any more.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16021	Mr deputies, short interruption! They must explain the application on the essential points, at least some parts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16036	I will explain the request in brief. It is a question of creating a Europe of net payers in order to ensure stability. The aim is to achieve a basic consensus and set minimum standards for individual policy areas. There just must be security. This is our motion for a resolution in a few words. [[The speaker turned towards President Dr. Graf.]] I hope to have explained him enough. [[President Dr. Graf gives an acceptable sign.]] - Thank you. I would like to return to my actual speech. Ladies and gentlemen! As is now presented by the European Union, Greece has no But it can't be under the arms. If I don't behave properly, there must be a penalty for that, and I can't go here and say I want another reward by buying me out of debt. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way! This is an animated animation of other states, which are also on undulating legs – for example, if we look at Portugal, Spain and Ireland and so on – to do the same. As a financial weak state, it is being called upon to go into the state bankruptcy in order to be picked up by the European Union with the help of the taxpayers of the net payers, the ordinary economies. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it can be! In the next two days, Mr Faymann will bring the hot potatoes out of the fire for us Austrians. If you want the 7-page paper to Look at the future, you have to say that there is nothing concrete inside. And if I look at what Mr Faymann has in his backpack – we heard this today in the main committee – I have to say that there is nothing there. Ladies and gentlemen, one cannot make politics, so one cannot look into the future of Europe! I ask you, your Chancellor, to the members of your government – unfortunately, you are no longer allowed to go; I am sorry because I believe that you are much more competent than the Federal Chancellor in this matter – to put pressure on us not to sell out the European states, better said, the net payer. [[the speaker turns towards Federal Minister Dr. Spindelegger]] I hope that the future in the European Union will look better than what the Federal Chancellor has in his backpack. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16102	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, in its main guidelines, to explain roughly whether its scope is already distributed within the house in accordance with the rules of business and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16201	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16222	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think that the European Union does not benefit from any generation other than youth, namely freedom of travel and training, but above all through many support projects that benefit young people. The most well-known is the ERASMUS program. That's been there for 20 years. Meanwhile, 50,000 Austrian students have completed a part of their studies abroad. The second well-known programme is LEONARDO DA Vinci, which has now enabled 3,000 pupils, but also apprentices, to complete part of their internship in another European country. In this respect, it is only to be supported and welcomed that the EU Commission, in its Europe 2020 programme, should pay particular attention to this target group and focus on three key points. On the one hand, it aims to develop mobility, higher education and research programmes, but also to introduce benchmarking in the field of higher education services and, above all, to ensure. Finally, the fight against unemployment is in the foreground. Europe-wide measures for the employment of young people are to be taken. Even though the Lisbon strategy has already been mentioned very critically today, I would nevertheless like to note that the objectives, even if they are high and the timetable has not been met, are nevertheless good, important and correct. For example, the Council recently decided on a conclusion which also has the content of promoting a young, creative generation in Europe, because competence and flexibility are not only acquired through general education alone, but also cultural education is of enormous importance. In education policy matters, of course, we face difficult challenges in the European context that we face in Austria. I mean, we handle these very well and we face these challenges too. I am thinking about the Bologna process, where it is about finding a good solution for Austria with universities and colleges. There's still a lot to do. But above all, it is also about finding a solution for Austrian students at medical universities after 2012, with particular emphasis on defining the quota system either as primary law, as EU law – that as a solution approach – or to remain in line with the principle of origin. The fact is that we must be positive to the European Union with all its opportunities and challenges. We do so on the part of the Austrian People's Party, because populism does not win and there is no alternative to the European Union in a globalised world. To this end, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for taking the time to stand up for dialogue and listening. That's quite strenuous. You are confronted with critical arguments. The Federal Minister has shown that solutions can also be found and, above all, can also answer questions in order to strengthen the acceptance of the European Union in the population. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16264	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16286	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria makes an active development policy, if it does so in a very small context, appropriate to the smallness of the country, but also very narrow in the country. In some areas we have a very special expertise, for example in the supply of water or the disposal of waste water, also in the empowerment of women or in rural development. There are many concrete successes that are also very visible – for example, by Austria withdrawing from countries, because they are simply no longer developing countries, like Cape Verde, where a lot of positive things have happened. Or if, for example, the head of the Coordination Bureau of the Austrian Development Cooperation in Bhutan says that it is still five years and then enough, because then it is so far that we can go, this shows the very best: If development aid ceases, it has been successful because it is no longer necessary. Of course, it's not that positive and simple everywhere. There are also a lot of setbacks, on the one hand, because, due to political conditions, it does not work so well everywhere, but also because of climate warming, natural disasters, where it is clear that we still have to be on site for many years. In this sense, Austria has also committed itself to a certain proportion of its gross national product for development cooperation under international law. We should now reach an intermediate stage of 0.51 percent of the gross national product in 2010, unfortunately we are quite far from the target, although there have been slight increases in recent years, but hold far too little to achieve the objective. If we now need to save on development cooperation, as is clearly stated in the room, we will not even be able to reach the goal we have for 2015 - that is to say, to spend 0.7 percent of GNI. I would like to try to consider why this would be very dramatic, and I hope that it is averted, because I know of many views – I know that I also have many colleagues; we were on site in many countries, with many projects, and we have been able to convince ourselves of the success of our work – that smart money lives, that it really helps to develop that it creates future, hope and substance. This money develops jobs, which is very important for income and thus for independence, especially for women. This money builds up infrastructure in health care, this money brings water to the people and wastewater from people and helps, for example, that women are not eight, nine hours a day in going from their residential area to a river, to fetch water, to go back, so it helps to prevent women from spending all day drinking water, but to be able to work productively and have an income to be able to provide their family. Women are often alone in caring for their families. This money guarantees education, basic training, vocational training, which in turn is very important for the economic, social and also democratic development of these countries. And this money protects the environment and resources and helps to find a sustainable way to deal with them. Short: Money invested has a positive impact on sustainable development, and Austrians also value their tax money so invested. They appreciate it because they know that it makes a small contribution to making this world fairer, they know that it is used to create equal opportunities between the sexes, to give people prospects, to give life luck and reasons for staying in their own country and to see for themselves and their children future opportunities, not to have to flee and not to face an uncertain future. The Austrians know that this money is by minimizing social conflicts, also an important contribution to peacekeeping. The earthquake disaster in Haiti once again shows that the Austrians themselves are generous in their private donations. However, it is also apparent that in 2009, despite the economic crisis, the amount of donations from the Austrians in the segment of poverty reduction has even increased at international level, probably also because of the tax deductibility. So the Austrians have a great awareness of development cooperation. And if we now have to consolidate the budget and do this also on the expenditure side and also on the foreign ministry, which is logical, I would like to combine this with a very urgent appeal to the Foreign Minister – I know you are trying very hard anyway – to make every effort to make every effort to save structurally within the ministry, to see synergies that can be used to smooth administration and bureaucracy. The “profile” this week, for example, reports travel fees regulations of 1955 which I do not know, but which seem to be outdated. It really offers a discussion about whether we need our own Austrian embassies in all EU Member States, including very small countries such as Malta, Cyprus, in all three Baltic States. I am sure that we will be able to achieve a budget consolidation which will take account of those who have contributed to the fact that this economic crisis, which is now also the cause of budgetary scarcity, has come about at all. Quite certainly, that's not the poor people, it's not the one billion people who have to live from less than a dollar a day, it's not those people who are hungry. I am sure that we will find ways to see that we do not need to cut down on this formable development cooperation, but we will really expand it, albeit slowly, but nevertheless. It's all our duty and assignment. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16349	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16370	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs! High house! I may politely allow myself to raise some critical points, and may also raise some of your valued attention. [[Abg. May. Molterer: (on the Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] I would, in principle, like to express that the perceptible content... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] Mr Zinggl, I do not need a supplementary hour from you. Thanks a lot! I was just polite to the lady and waited until her urgent need for communication disappeared. But the central point is the answers that the House is able to give to the statement by the Foreign Minister in a variety of ways. I would say, on the part of our group, that there is a certain lack of profile of Austrian foreign policy. This is not just our perception, it is also critically illuminated in media. There was a time when Austrian foreign policy was much more perceptible than the size of our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – Of course, I can't define that, dear friend Grossruck, from the mayor level that's too much to praise, but that's only from the head of state. And maybe you'll learn something about it. [[Abg. Grandruck: No, not yours!]] - You don't want to. In school, you would get a “not enough. ” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there are also learning resistances. The peasantry is at all of a considerable dimension of spiritual creations. But let us briefly deal with the things that are state-relevant and not merely carry the church’s furniture in themselves! [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] – It’s about not having to grow, but listening to it like that. It's not grooling, it's like listening! We now have a very important consideration on Greece's affairs. This example shows something: The theory of a strengthened EU foreign policy is rebutted by reality. We have the newly introduced institution of a High Representative of the Common European Foreign and Security Policy – the Lady Ashton is now also known to us; possibly not in Upper Austria, but should not be associated with it – but new institutions will be created without the abolition of existing institutions. This brings us to the issue of conflict that we need to deal with in the future: How does the institution structure itself? What conflict of competence do we exist in relation to the EU's foreign policy as an Austrian foreign policy representative? Now we have to say: It speaks Sarkozy and does not care about what Merkel says, it speaks Merkel without worrying about what the others say, and there is no common attitude and opinion. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to ensure that the Austrian marking is given for the benefit of Austria, and to increase the Austrian profileing level also in Brussels. There is enough room for the disorder, which can be seen in the light of recent weeks, where the restructuring has not yet taken place in the back and in the front, enough space to give Austrian foreign policy a perceptible positive dimension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16454	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. In view of the Stenographical Protocol, I would like to give to Mr Hübner the opportunity to express himself in the direction of Mr Mag. Stadler, “he claps like a Pavlov dog when he hears the word ‘Stache’”, a call for order. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on the possibility of exclusion from monetary union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a core Europe against the background of the budget and financial disaster in Greece. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This too is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:50:12]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (582 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol of 2005 on the Protocol to combat illegal acts against the security of fixed platforms located on the mainland base (614, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (583 e.g._Other Organiser 2005 Protocol to the Convention on the Control of Unlawful Actions against the Safety of Maritime Navigation (615 d.a.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (602 e.g._Other Organiser Amendment Protocol amending the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Reporting and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Reporting (616, e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Christine Muttonen, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, Dr. Johannes Hübner, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues on the use of a world without nuclear weapons (617 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16570	We now come to points 2 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting on points 2, 3 and 5. I am speaking to the rapporteur, Mr Glaser, in order to make a print error correction on point 4. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16594	High house! I present the following print error correction to the Committee Report 616 of the Supplements: There is a print error in point 2 of the request to the National Council. According to the phrase ‘Language of this State Treaty’, the word ‘voice’ has to be omitted. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would therefore like the National Council to give constitutional approval to the Committee's request, taking into account the pressure error correction I have just presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16621	Thank you. – Mr Dr. Schüssel came to speak. But since we come to the call for the urgent request in two minutes, I ask you whether you want to speak these two minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Can I talk after that?]] - That's in your discretion. Or I'll interrupt the meeting until his call. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: I'd rather talk afterwards!]] I interrupt the sitting by 15.55 p.m. until the request for urgent procedure. The meeting was suspended in the short term.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16676	I take up the interrupted sitting again and now interrupt the debate on agenda items 2 to 5, so that the requested urgent request can take place at 15.55 a.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:55:16]] Request for urgent procedure of Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on ‘ORF-Manipulation scandal’ (1021/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16713	We only reach the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1021/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16761	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Strache as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - I give the floor to you. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e16785	Mr President. Appreciate members on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request today is intended to show and prove what inconceivable scandal has been played. ==References== As part of an election event of the Austrian Freedom Party in Vienna's Neustadt, March 2010 has been an enormous media scandal, which must lead to consequences. We can prove and prove that the ORF, the public-law state radio, has brought persons, resident, committed, ordered, paid, paid with ORF penalty fees, has collected an ORF bus in Vienna, has brought to my event in Wiener Neustadt, at the FPÖ, under precise direction certain patterns of behaviour have been given for the best and many other details that I will present to you today. By the ORF editor Mag. Eduard Moschitz has hired people from the neo-Nazi scene and has been coached with an ORF bus to Wiener Neustadt, which is established as a fact and is also confirmed by witnesses, of which I will inform you and quote from it. The fact is further that the ORF has admitted that the initiative was not based on the said skinheads, but rather Mr Eduard Moschitz, ORF journalist, asked or pointed out that one should go there, and also informed them that they received a Gage of ORF-compulsory fees of over 100 € per day. Additional costs and fees such as beverages, food et cetera were paid. I'll explain the details later. The fact is that, besides this payment, something has been played out, a way of doing so has been demonstrated, which is documented, so that one simply cannot go over to the agenda. What has been happening in the last few days gives a significant light to all journalists in our country, who, as a rule, really and decently research and do a good job. And I also expressly say that there are many, many journalists in the ORF, who are not only not satisfied with this Causa, but deeply reject them and wonder that in such a case, which is clearly on the table, one tries to wall as one actually knows only from the GDR, and until now has not taken too personal consequences. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I am saying that this scandal, which is on the table, I cannot take out the Director-General Wrabetz, the Information Director of Oberhauser, but also Orf Spokesman Strobl, because they played an unpleasant role here and tried to cover this scandal instead of causing consequences. This gives a significant light to the self-understanding of some people working in public broadcasting and taking advantage of such methods. After it was no longer possible to dispute from the ORF that at a FPÖ event I was wanted to celebrate a few neo-Nazis, all possible excuses were sought and also tried to find that normality was in Austrian broadcasting. It is normal to pay people as ORF-Nazi-statists with daily gigs, to instruct them to do certain things, to bring them to a political opposition party with the ORF-bus, to deliberately discredit a party, to defamate it, and to put it into a consciously manipulative false image. That is normality, Mr Orf spokesperson Strobl for the best. And there is still an operation with untruths that one says, well, they have only received 100 € once to withdraw the personal rights, while at the time of the witness's receipts of these persons it is clearly confirmed that they have received up to 700 € and not a one-time payment of 100 €. – You just can’t go to the agenda! [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] Let us now listen to what one of these persons puts to the record, which has been used as an ORF-Nazi-statist and has been engaged by Mr Moschitz, who has always been lovingly called “Ed” by the people. – So they said “Ed” to him, he also presented himself as “Ed”; that was the relationship between the gentlemen. Here comes the following, documented at the witness's receipts, to show – I quote –: “Ed instructed us to behave as aggressively and as much as we could indignantly. Ed told us to pay us for a “Sieg Heil!”-run 80 € premium. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] This in addition to the 100 € that we get paid for every turnday.” – Quotes. [[Abg. Grosz: This is instigation to break the law of ban!]] This is, please, a gentleman who works as a reporter in the ORF! These are the journalistic methods of an ORF editor – and then Mr Strobl says that this is normality in the ORF. Yes, how have you produced “On the scene” broadcasts or other broadcasts so far, if that’s normality in a public-law station?- Oh, my God! There must be consequences immediately and not show this one-wall method that the ORF is living today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the event, witnesses have observed that Mr. Moschitz – whom he has brought with him, lovingly called “Ed” – had an intense conversation with these rulings, had always called them and had been addressed with the first name. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You'll see how it really was tomorrow!]] – Tomorrow there will be a collection of the ten hours of film material, which will be beautifully cut. That's exactly the method. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is also reported that one of the ORF-Nazi statistics brought there by Mr Eduard Moschitz is also loud to an event participant who has noticed that something is lazy, has announced that he owns a martial dog and will thus come to television for the second time today. Because of all the strange situations that he was able to observe – the conversation with Eduard Moschitz et cetera, with these rulers who have been permanently instructed to do certain things – the man who has started to do that with his cell phone, fortunately, and he has also played this to us, which has enabled us to find further facts and evidence that there has been a close interaction here and that manipulation has taken place specifically, so far that on the videos published by the ORF, one of the ORF-Nazi statistics even had a micro on his jacket. [[The speaker holds a photo on which a person can be seen, on whose jacket a microphone is attached.]] Thanks to the private film recordings and the private photographs, which we have fortunately also been given by private individuals, we can prove that one of these ORF-Nazi statistics by Eduard Moschitz has also received a micro so that everything can be heard well when he gives the right sayer for the best. But the director was another one. I should not have thought that It's quite a manipulative matter. I refer to the ORF contribution ==References====External links== January 2010 under the direction of Moschitz on the topic “Currency, Bissy!”. It is thus documented that Mr. Moschitz already had a show on the scene with one of these ORF-Nazi-statists, whom he has used now. There is a film scene where he is shown with a martial dog he owns, with a crossmark in the background, and Mr. Moschitz obviously kept closer to the Lord in a row to continue to use him for such activities. For my speech, neither the camera team, nor the Nazi states brought by the ORF, has been shown to be interested in a specialist shop under the direction of the ORF man, so that they can buy posters that were paid by the ORF so that they can buy pens that were paid by the ORF man – I will then read them out of the protocol – and then, under the direction of Mr Moschitz, have written certain things on them, under the direction of Mr Moschitz – an ORF editor! – were sent to the left-wing demonstrators to provoke them, and much more. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's said everything you're talking about isn't right!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Reds defend...! Unbelievable, now you have lost the elections in Styria! Just keep doing that!]] After my speech I went down from the stage as always, went to the citizens, gave autographs, took photos with citizens who wished to do so, and then again and again I was repeatedly provoked by a man. That was Mr. Moschitz, as he then pointed out, who, in the meantime, repeatedly called in to me – according to the meaning –: Yes, Mr. Strache, what do you say that the greatest right-wing extremists in this place rejoice? – I answered him: What are you doing? Why are you defaming the decent citizens standing there? There's no right-wing radicals! What's the matter with this displeasure? – He also said... [[Call the SPÖ: That would be the first time!]] [[Call the Greens.]] – Yes, there were left-wing extremists who were violent there. – This is also policely documented because body injury has occurred. There was this in this place, and I have also pointed out to Mr Moschitz what is policely documented. But otherwise there were decent citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Moschitz then said: But the glamour heads that cheer you in this place! – And I turn around and see about a hundred citizens who still stand with me and want autographs, but among whom there was no gleaming head, wonder what this is about, and say: What do you have? Do you want to defamate people who have no hair growth? There are no people with slicks here with the citizens! What are you talking about? Later, I realized what this foreplay should be: The ORF-Nazi-statists have waited until all the citizens are gone, they have stood at the lockdown, wanted autographs and a photo, and I turned around looking for the camera, and then someone said: There's the camera, that's our camera, and Mr. Moschitz said: Well, now you can finally tell him, after all, tell him, after all, say what, now you can tell him everything, say it at last!, and I turned around and I could then hear very clearly what one said, namely: Victory Heil. I then immediately informed my speaker and my security officer and said we are calling the executive, I want immediately that this is indicated that it is determined who the rulers are, who has asked and inspired these rulers to do so. From the police you have then become active accordingly and have also made the Witnesses' consents. The fact is that these rulers have then also announced the following in the police protocol, namely as witnesses – I quote from the public prosecutor's testimony, where a witness has described the following scenario, among other things –: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where is the protocol?]] “My friend met Ed in the course of shooting for a ‘shoe’ documentation about martial dogs. That was, I think, October 2009. In January or February of this year, Ed – Mr. Moschitz – “wanted to turn a document on the everyday life of the extremes of the right and to return to my friend. My friend knew that 100 € per turnday will be paid again. Ed promised. As a result, Ed completed a few days with my friend. I think it's been three days. We were first at the AMS in the morning, then we drove to a shop that sold right things. When I say ‘we’, I mean my friend, Ed, a cameraman, a sound engineer and me.” I quote: “Ed gave Philip 50 € in front of the shop and instructed him to buy what. My friend bought two bodies with right symbols, a lighter with the inscription ‘Honor and country’ and a flag with eagle and cross. Ed took for another” – a member of the ORF-Nazi-statists – “a haferl with a German cross.” “In a locality,” it goes on to say, “my friend and the other acquaintance, who was there,” or the ORF-Nazi-statist, were told by Ed that they should behave more provocatively at the Strache-Veranstaltung in Wiener Neustadt. At 3.20 p.m., we went to Wiener Neustadt. Philip and I went with the cameraman and the sound engineer, and the other sat in Ed's car. On the way, there was another increase. We arrived on the motorway near Baden in a traffic jam and were in Wiener Neustadt at around 5:15 a.m..” I would like to quote: “Ed then saw a woman who had a poster with the inscription “We are Austrian – no Nazis” with him. Ed said, "To the ORF-Nazi-statist he brought, that they should also make such posters. Everyone went to a paper store and bought paper and an edding stick and wrote slogans on the posters.” Among other things, “you are filthy ” and others. “With these posters, she sent Ed to the left, which was very excited about it, and this action was filmed of course.” Further: “Ed sent [...]” – said ORF-Nazi-statists – “to different positions and filmed them there. I didn't stop in their immediate vicinity. Ed said to a person [...] and asked him: “Do you want to shake your hand and talk to him?” – This person denied this. Then, with cameraman and sound technician, Ed was introduced by an employee into the inside of the event room.” Shortly before, there was a relationship between Mr. Ed and the said persons have another conversation, whereby Ed said to a person in a reasonable way – I quote –: “Now you can tell him the opinion, everything you have always wanted to tell him!” And Ed also said to the person: “Say “Sieg Heil” to him!” I quote: “The boy looked unbelievably at first, then repeated quietly: “Vieving Heil”. As a sting then at Kevin’s [...]” – and with the other persons – “was, he said, “Sieg Heil”. I only heard that statement once. After that, there was a discussion between Strache and Ed. After that we went to a local." I quote what was then discussed in the local. There was also a discussion there. The witness’s statement was that Ed was “very excited” and said the following – I quote from another witness’s protocol –: “Ed, however, said: ‘Just say that, the other one we talk after.’ Then I said “Sieg Heil” in the camera.” So it has also admitted the one ORF-Nazi-statist in the consent protocol. “At this point, Strache was very close to us and was thus in the picture with us. We had discussed this situation before during our tour in Wiener Neustadt, and Ed told us that he wanted this from us. Strache had apparently heard my reputation and immediately approached Ed with the accusation that he was a neonazi and inspired us young people into such actions and would have consequences for this incident. Ed had to leave the event room. We went with Ed to a nearby place and drank a beer. Ed was totally excited and told us to protect him and take the blame on us. He also offered us a corresponding price, but the amount of which should only be discussed in a concrete manner later on.” [[Call the FPÖ:He's still a coward!]] In addition, from this Protocol: “Ed then led me back home to Vienna. Before leaving, Ed paid 130 € to me.” – Well, that’s nice! – “The 100 € for the shooting day wanted to give me later.” – So much to the statements of two people who have been engaged as ORF-Nazi-statists by Eduard Moschitz and have been led to act in this way. These are already immeasurable, and if I can't find that by chance, then such methods would obviously continue to pass through as normality at the ORF, for this is what Mr Strobl describes as building a picture, hireing people from the neo-Nazis scene, paying for them, making a script and sending them to the opposition to create a false image. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Such persons cannot be seen and found otherwise at our events, and therefore you cannot be manipulated, as Mr Moschitz has just presented it with this scene and ultimately lived. These are the immeasurable things, given that I say: There must be consequences when the responsible ORF masters are walled and one tries to present such a thing as normal objective media coverage! Of course, the show “At the scene ” for tomorrow is not going to do what one would have planned. If I hadn't gotten on the whole scenario and couldn't have found out that there was a peppered “At the scene” that was supposed to represent the stretch and the FPÖ that had anything to do with such neonazis. That was certainly the plan, but it failed. So tomorrow one will probably show another scenario and of course try to present it in a different light. The fact is that more than ten witnesses have been consulted, who have heard clearly that one of the people has said “Sieg Heil” at the invitation of Mr. Moschitz. Of course, the prosecutor's office has now determined, and legally, all of this will be clarified, but that's not just a legal question. That is a question of how media operate in our country. – And this is not just about public-law channels. If private channels were to act like this, it would be just as objectionable. Such a way of staging, which obviously serves to discredit the political opposition, must not take place – and not at all with compulsory fees paid by the Austrian compulsory payer. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of BZÖ and ÖVP.]] This has not lost anything in our society, and we will therefore inform the people. I am horrified that the ORF has not transmitted this debate live today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the next mistake!]] I am also horrified that the ORF played a band before selected journalists, which was also published on “thestandard.at” by which one can document afterwards how plum was manipulated. [[Call the FPÖ:Au hurt!]] On the volume published on “thestandard.at” one hears other words than later on the alleged original volume of the ORF, which he published on “kundendienst.orf.at” and of which he wrote by press release, that is the original volume with the original tone – unmistakable. And all of a sudden, certain sequences that have previously been played in the context of a press conference are no longer heard. This also proves that there have been three recordings, namely a sound recording from the camera, a second from the microphone of one of the said ORF-Nazi statistics and a third sound recording with a direct microphone. Every expert says – and many experts have reported to us and have also developed expertise – that: It is the easiest, such a band later in a sound studio – the camera team was not from ORF, but from a private company that has been booked – to transfer to another band within 30 minutes and exchange and change the sounds. - That's exactly what it's all about. If the executive wants to listen to the band at ORF and get it played without sound, I wonder: What did the ORF have to hide that he didn't play the sound? – It smells huge here, and, Mr Wrabetz, I am also responsible for this situation because you have remained inactive!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17006	Mr Ostermayer spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17037	Madam President. Dear High House! Mr. Klubobmann Strache does not disappoint me – and that is because disappointment is always in relation to expectation. However, I am disappointed that the lawyers in his club did not point out to him that he made a urgent request that would actually call for the breach of the Constitution and for the disregard of the ORF law. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Please go, that's ridiculous!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] They ask the Federal Chancellor... – That's wrong. [[Abg. Grosz: That's right, because only you, Mr Ostermayer, can do that because you make calls to ORF every day...!]] They urge the Federal Chancellor to clarify that he is investigating that he is responsible for ensuring that the ORF fees are used in a law-compliant manner. I assume that you too know that the ORF has been set independent by constitutional law. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Only as long as you don't pick up the phone every day and organize for Mr. Vove's "Report" appearances!]] There were highly esteemed journalists Hugo Portisch, who initiated the first popular desire in the Second Republic, supported by 830 000 signatures, and the consequence of this very successful popular desire was the Federal Constitutional Act, which guarantees the constitutional independence of the ORF. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you say anything about the accusations?]] The ORF Act sets out exactly how responsibilities are assigned. There is a clear assignment of responsibility for management, for the Stiftungsrat, for the public council and for the constitutionally independent Federal Communications Senate, or subsequently the Administrative and Constitutional Court. [[Abg. New builder: Say you're not ashamed?- Oh, my God!]] - I'm not ashamed, no. I don't see any reason to be ashamed at all. [[Demonstrative applause and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] If the ORF-Law-Novelle is adopted here in the House, there is also the constitutionally independent media authority. [[Abg. Street: Enter the core!]] The Bundeskommunikationsssenat – consisting of the Vice-President of the Upper Regional Court of Vienna, a judge of the Upper Regional Court of Vienna, a court council of the Supreme Court, a professor of Constitutional Law of the WU and a lawyer – held on 16 June. In a similar situation in the context of a report “Am Schauplatz” on June 2008, it was decided in the sense of the editorial staff. [[Abg. May. Haider: Did the Moschitz put on you what you gave of yourself?]] [[Call the FPÖ:That's something manipulated!]] He found that there was no violation of the objectivity command in this case and that no illegal behaviour is present. [[Abg. May. Haider: But the Moschitz!]] I quote from this decision: ‘Increasing financial performance in favour of shooting The interested party assumes that, as a general rule, such persons will then be considered to have a potential impact on the results of the reporting, provided that they are faced with an objectively justified and comprehensible effort. This effort may arise both in a material and in the form of a lack of time due to participation in the shooting work.” I find it extremely worrying when media politicians or other politicians, without the competent control bodies having decided to call on a constitutionally independent company to cause human consequences. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's inconceivable!]] If someone believes that criminally relevant accusations exist, then it must be said: [[Abg. Strache: You will not claim that we call on the citizens to boycott the ORF penalty fees? That's really ridiculous what you're saying!]] The competent authorities, prosecutors and courts shall be responsible. [[Abg. Strache: You obviously have no awareness of any problem at all!]] If someone believes that a contribution has affected objectivity, each person can submit an application to the independent federal communication body and have it examined there. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But asking the Federal Chancellor to take care of it is – I emphasize it again – against the Federal Constitutional Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: This is not the problem!]] On the matter itself: It is not my job, and I do not think it is our task to give a judgment to an independent company with appropriate control bodies, but to this end the courts or, at the very moment, the Federal Communications Senate have been appointed. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Ing. Hofer]] [[Further call of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] The ORF, after the accusations have appeared, has provided transparency. He put the material in question on the Internet. [[Abg. Strache: He denied it!]] It can be seen by anyone on “orf.kundendienst.at” this band. [[Abg. Strache: He changed it!]] Tomorrow, as you have already mentioned, this “At the scene” broadcast, for which it was turned, will also be broadcast. After that – and I think that is also a sign of transparency and objectivity – there is a discussion round to which, I think, two club members are invited. [[Abg. Stache: at 23 o'clock!]] [[Abg. Head: Hausjell and Mayer!]] From his point of view, the Council of Editors has also clarified the facts. I say again: Whoever has doubts may be able to take the legal right paths, but not with lump-sum suspicions and precepts the work and the reputation of the independent ORF and the journalists who work there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you find the media policy correct? That's inconceivable!]] Finally, I say something: The ORF, the independent media and the employees there are a very valuable part of democracy. [[Abg. May. Haider: They are not independent!]] And whoever wants to do this, I want to say to him: I think that's a hard thing to do! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17386	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Vilimsky was the first to speak. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17415	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing like that has two dimensions. The first dimension is the scandal itself that I will speak to. And the second is the question: How do I deal with the scandal? Something like that can happen once. But the question is, how does the House, how democracy, how the rule of law deal with it? And it is more than disappointing what is going on from two political groups. Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer, I feel that you and your political support object Faymann have not really come from the Constitution of the Federal Capital of Vienna into the real policy of federal politics. I know you've learned that you've called Mr. Vavrousek in the press and information service, according to the motto “You wish, we play” Your policies have been based on a Vienna constitution that is authoritarian, which gives little scope, and precisely with this constitution you have come into federal politics. And I'm accusing of Peter's principle: You and your Federal Chancellor Faymann have hit your limits! And it would be good if you went back to Vienna. Only: This does not work either, because in the Vienna municipal council election with our mayor candidate, we will make sure that also in the Federal Capital of Vienna, democratic conditions are in place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, I am taking you from the point of view that you are half honest about the story. And I'll take it from you that if you say, You've got to check that out, feel pretty uncomfortable in itself. And I know, in your deepest interior, you're condemning the whole thing. You're still taking a position on this today. And I would like you to have the courage to find clear words here in view of the pressing facts. This will be a decisive sample for you. But what is very disappointing is the attitude of the Greens. I wonder, What else needs to happen so that the last remains of political and moral consciences can be raised from the coma? [[Call the Greens.]] You don't have a problem dealing with crab hordes of ranches, working together in the midst of demonstrators who light police cars. But then, if there is such an overwhelming situation as this one is, you will lose the last of your credibility. What a stone you'll fall out of the crown when you go here and say: Yes, that was indecent!Unknown term type: "%s".? – By covering Mr Moschitz and this story, you make yourself more than unbelievable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know it's your head of communication Strobl who covers all of this, but we're going to track it down, what's been staging here, and what used to be staging. This has had a nice pattern: Whenever provocateurs were present at our events, ORF cameras were there. These individuals have never been shown. These people are submerged somewhere. Today we have the explanation for this because, fortunately, we have a federal party observer who has responded with a keen sense and has revealed this story. Every hour there are more facts, such as the Protocolary Minutes. What do you want? You're still in this story, aren't you? This is where Nazi provocateurs were paid by the ORF over many days. These persons have been instructed to say what they have to say. These individuals have received a premium in the event that they say “wine salvation. ” These people have already made politics for mayor Häupl in the ORF and for the dog driver's license. And so on and so on. There were three tracks of clay. The ORF leadership has handed over the police's tape without a soundtrack. And when the police came to the ORF, there was still no soundtrack. How much must this whole thing smell so that you wake up and show up the last remains of your moral conscience? It would be good if you had at least a little credibility and would not immediately defend such misdeeds here. Since Mr Ostermayer is trying to establish a legal basis here, one must also keep in mind the programme guidelines of the ORF here, which clearly and clearly state that objectivity means objectivity, while avoiding one-sidedness, party acceptance and distortion of dimensions. What else happened than that under the direction of public-law broadcasting was not distorted, but massively manipulated?- Oh, my God! It is also time to say thank you here, too, in the direction of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which is here with a great deal of propriety, but also in the direction of the BZÖ, so that a coalition of the propriety has formed itself here, to reveal these piglets, which the Austrian broadcaster has committed, and not only in a special public council, but also in a special funding council. [[A lively welcome to the FPÖ]] And that'll have a replay! What else will have to happen if the expert is passed from broadcast to broadcast in ORF, who is at the same time in charge of the SPÖ, to work as an advisor for them?- Oh, my God! What else will have to happen if orders from the office of the President of the National Council are given to the ORF magazine “Report” in order to harm the FPÖ?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I say: It is high time to go through the ORF on the Küniglberg with the iron broom and to make sure that there is no way to go! [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] Calm down and come out and talk to the whole story! This is probably the biggest media scandal that this Republic has seen. He has a democratic scandal scene, has a rule of law scandal and a criminal facet. [[Abg. And a criminal!]] I still think it is time to exercise insight here, it is still time for those who are now still making criminal machinations to make the wall, here at the speaker's desk of the House, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, to demonstrate that they are not only honestly interested in information, not only are they honestly interested in installing an objective ORF for the future, but also in protecting all those decent ORF journalists who are now entering the water of this discussion, and not covering these machinations, as the Secretary of State Ostermayer has done in the face of an oppressive constitutional situation, and not prefer to hide behind some expertise of the newly colored red constitutional service. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17495	Mr Vilimsky! With all the heat of the debate, in the interests of our democratic Republic, I clearly note here that there is no state constitution in our state of Austria, from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, from Lower Austria to Carinthia, which would be “authoritarian”. If that were to fall again, I would give a call for order for it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are no more calls of order! All the calls for order have been abolished since today!]] Next, Mr Klubobmann, Mr Cap, speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17532	Madam President. High house! So that we can understand ourselves correctly: It should be in the interest of all the five parties here in the House that there is objectivity in all media, both in electronic and in print media. Rightly, there has often been criticism towards almost all media that this command has not always been fulfilled. To this end, we should understand – in our interest and in the interest of a developed political culture. - Point one. Point two: We all know the constitutional situation. The constitutional situation is such that the ORF is obliged to comply with the objectivity requirement of independence. There is the possibility of making complaints, for example at the Bundeskommunikationssenat, the public council, and there are several initiatives in the Foundation Council. It's worth it. And I'm also for doing that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For example, choose a new Director-General!]] It wasn't always fulfilled. I admit that openly, too. Until now, only one has succeeded in performing an intervention in image and sound in the ORF, and that was MP Peter Westenthaler. He called once, and he managed to show up in the current show in picture and sound. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm still jealous of it today!]] That is why I would be solemn in the debate today, because you are the best example of what intervention is. And this can be proved, for you have heard your voice and seen your image. - That's the one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I'm still jealous of it today!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Blow before envy!]] I would now like to address the urgent request which states: “The Federal Chancellor is invited to ensure, within the scope of his possibilities, that the ORF manipulation scandal of Wr. New Town is unexplained.” To this end, I would like to say: If so, then justice. There is an ongoing procedure to this end. You yourself, Mr. Klubobmann Strache, have paid ad. It's going to be treated now. You also quoted here on the basis of a witness statement. [[Abg. Strache: It's not just about legal questions!]] You're right: It is not only a legal question but also a political one. However, I would also like to deal with the legal issue. It would therefore have been more correct if this urgent request had been made inside: the judicial system. And justice is concerned with this. You, Mr Strache, have returned ad. The police, the judicial system and the prosecutor's office have become active. I don't know how to get to hearing information in this country. I only know one thing: You've quoted from here today. This is not yet a conviction, but it is now being dealt with. This procedure will then result in the end, and the independent judicial system will then put this result on the table. That's how you have to proceed formally. I think that's to be respected. If you demand the rule of law, constitutional fidelity and law fidelity, I must tell you: This should also be required in general, particularly as regards this ongoing procedure in the final effect. That is what I place on it. I have spoken about this today in the discussions we have already had. I would like to make one point: My understanding of the political debate is that this can be hard, that we have controversies and contradictions very hard to carry out, but that there must be fairness. I myself recognize that I am against any kind of manipulation and against any kind of confrontation that destroys our political culture. I'm not for that! I would like to say that clearly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] I believe that I am speaking for my group as a whole, and I hope that I will be here for everyone. In the end, however, the media that are very important in this country and which are a sort of fourth pillar in our democracy, and also the journalists – while respecting all journalistic freedom, I would like to say that. I am the first to fight against it when there are attempts to intimidate journalists when trying to limit their scope for action, and when something is done, there is no longer any journalistic freedom. I'm the first one to be against it. But fairness is also offered in the media. We'll have a press council as much as I know. This will be a possibility for you to express yourself again in this respect, because this fairness is crucial. That is why I am very penetrating and think that these investigations are hard and precise. If it is demonstrated that there have been manipulations, there must be consequences. The band was handed over to the police. I asked myself, it will now check if there have been manipulations. I'm curious what's going to be published tomorrow. It's also online. But if even a spark of manipulation turns out, then the consequences are to be drawn from it, that is not at all a question, and no matter in which medium, not only in electronic media, but in every medium. [[Abg. And the staging method?]] I'm sorry that we don't discuss with submissions. That's why you refunded ad! No, I haven't told you what I think is okay yet. [[Abg. Strache: The media production, that's what you think is okay!]] I think I'm okay when you comply with the laws, and I'm fine when you're in charge of having journalistic freedom. [[Abg. Strache: Is that objective?]] And I'm going to look at this very carefully tomorrow, even after the discussion. [[Abg. Strache: This cannot be described as objective!]] No, no, no, But, Mr Klubobmann, if you return an advertisement and initiate a trial in the framework of justice, then it is also a command of fairness that you then wait for what the result is. [[Abg. Strache: It's about a media-political staging! A public-law station staged Nazis into an opposition!]] No, no, no, If so... [[Abg. That's not all right!]] Listen to me now! If that is the case, it is just as wrong as any other manipulation. I never said anything else. I am against the fact that you are already taking account of the results of the investigations. That's not all right either! If so, then we remain correct, on all lines and in every relationship! And then we all stick to it! The command also, and in particular a public-law channel, is that it preserves independence and objectivity. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Justice too!]] Justice, too. Mr Westenthaler, I would like to give you the right, including the judicial system. That's perfectly clear. And here's the place where to discuss it when it's not. Now I come to the political part. The legal part, the legal part, that's the justice, the police and so on. Undisputed! The political part must then be debated here – that is absolutely clear! – to debate here, among other things. Again: We all confess to that! Also, I'm not interested in the fact that when I get out of a house, I'm not interested in anything that's pressing my hand and saying, There's a S', and now you're already there! or something else. I don't want that any more than you do. I do not want these forms of political debate, as they seem to be in other countries, here in Austria. But I want you to be clean and you're fair, overall. And here I think that we should go this way: We know the opinions made by the ORF. We know the opinion of the Information Director, which is also on the table. You've read to us today from consumer information. That will be to be assessed. And at the end of the day, we will meet in here and have to debate this politically. But one thing I'm saying is whether you like it or not. I have listened very carefully to the interviews with Mrs Rosenkranz. In here in the house she was a constructive interlocutor, I don't want to deny that at all. As I said, I listened very carefully to what she said in the “ZiB2” and the “Morgenjournal”. And I'll tell you: What it has said about the Prohibition Act, namely to eliminate § 3h, so that it is no longer subject to punishment, so to speak, because, under so-called freedom of expression, one can also claim that there has been no concentration camps and so on, leaves open room for interpretation that you have to answer. [[Abg. Strache: She made it very clear!]] No, she didn't say anything. It has said that it is against the removal of the Prohibition Act, but it has meant § 3h as regards its expression. [[Abg. Strache: Understand and interpret! She has made this very clear!]] No, no, no, There is, of course, a room for interpretation that it is because one can claim without penalty that there were no concentration camps, there was no such thing. [[Abg. Strache: It has made it clear, you have to say that honestly!]] No, no, no, This political responsibility has to be borne. We've discussed this a few times. We've already said a few times: This point of view is not all right! We will not change a millimeter in this prohibition law. That is what I am saying, and I am convinced that there is a majority in this House that nothing will be changed. This is one of the pillars of the Republic. That's what I'm calling myself. But this, of course, promotes a discussion here, an interpretation that you have to answer for yourself. Other: We'll meet again. Here there is a hard discussion – but fairness. For this we are, I believe, really everyone or we really have to depend on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17771	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17792	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, I do not know how the other Members here are, but I am somewhat concerned about your opinion. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Not only because, Mr President, but also because you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, refer to a statement by the Council of Editors without any value in support of your own argument. Apart from the fact that this issue of the Council of Editors is contrary to my person's permissiveness, and the Council of Editors would like to explain to me the difference between reportage and report – which I know myself – one is equal to both, a report and a report: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's what you're doing!]] Both have to represent realities and not establish realities. That's a big difference in case you haven't understood that yet. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Tadler.]] It's far from me to somehow condemn the ORF here. I share what was said earlier: There, very good work is being done in many places, and not all of the ORF's employees are supposed to suffer from what may have happened. [[Abg. That's right! That's right!]] But if it is true that an ORF editor has hired right-wing skinheads against payment and costing for a reportage, if it is true that this ORF editor has brought these skinheads to a party event with an ORF vehicle to make them appear there and thus produce an image that is acceptable to the editor there – one of these skinheads said in the “Kronen Zeitung”, quote: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible, that's it!]] “Without ORF we would never have gone straight.” – and if it was really true – if it was true! – that this editor has also financed the acquisition of relevant utensils for this performance, ladies and gentlemen, this is a gross violation of the ORF law, then it is a gross violation of the ORF’s internal programme guidelines, and then it is a hands-on media scandal and an attack on our democracy. [[In the case of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ, as well as representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] Mr State Secretary, it is not for you to criticize that. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And a crime!]] I have said this with the previous relativization – if it is true, then there are also human consequences to put, I have not required them ultimately and without limitation; so do not represent that! You have, I suppose, meant me with this media politician who asked for it. That's true as you represent it, simply and simply not! Something's not right yet: The bear hunt, that incident – also in “At the scene” by the way – which was the subject of a Senate decision is probably not comparable to this case. There you paid people or paid them a trip to take part in a bear hunt. You really do not want to compare this decision with a political staging if it has taken place. You can't compare that, not as a comparison to make sure that the Senate would decide that way. This is absurd, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury and Tadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ORF Programme Guidelines say quite clearly: ‘It is prohibited to bring in situations for reception purposes which are appropriate to give third parties the impression of a criminal offence.’ - I think that's what I'm saying. That is to say, these accusations must be resolved internally in the ORF, for the benefit of the ORF. They must also be urgently informed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, namely to protect our democracy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury and Tadler.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no misunderstanding: I do not defend some of Mr Strache's statements, some of Mr Strache's actions, and not some of Mr Strache's formats of events. [[Abg. You don't have to defend that one!]] To make that clear. But I say a clear yes to a very clear, extremely critical media observation, for example if Mrs. Rosary needs a week to find half-clear words about Nazi crimes. However, this call for critical observation is not a call for manipulation. That's a big difference! Finally, to the request of the liberals: Of course, this request cannot be accepted, because it would actually be a breach of the Constitution to call on Mr Bundeskanzler to take action, namely to act in a company which is rightly protected by constitutional law in its activity, in its objectivity. [[Abg. Strache: That one acts in accordance with the law?]] [[Abg. Strache: To ensure compliance with law!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17953	For business treatment, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e17977	Madam President. I want to announce that the ORF, who does not transmit the broadcast, apparently decided not to transfer the live stream. This is interrupted until 5 p.m., so it's on the side of the ORF. [[Abg. That's inconceivable!]] I'm trying to deal with this urgently in the Presidential.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18065	The next item is Mr Brosz. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18087	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The last note is something to check. I assume that the President will do the same, because, regardless of the sharpness of the debate, the form of a transfer depends on the content is, in principle, inadmissible. Should it really be so that there will be no conscious transfer at any given time, then, I believe, there will also be a clear statement by the President that it should not be so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In fact, the President would be responsible for this, but she prefers to distribute calls for order!]] I assume that this accusation will be checked. But let's get to the matter ourselves: I also looked at the document on customer service.orf.at today. [[Abg. Head: That's not the topic!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] This is a good indication, Mr Graf, that this is not a matter. Because what it's all about is, I think, the differentiation, which was actually the story. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's about the method of staging!]] That's exactly what I'm going to do, the method of staging. From my point of view, what you're doing here is relatively obvious: They are trying to shape the reporting of events taking place in the FPÖ environment in the future – I say that consciously: in the future – in such a way that a great deal of pressure is exerted, since it is at all possible to see that journalists will consider exactly what can be brought about, and thus exert political pressure. I looked at that on the tape and I can also understand that what happened there has made you feel the way you articulated. This impression may well arise if one does not see the connection that it seems to have been a report – by the way, I am partly referring to the other side, namely the Council of Editors, which is also a body which is not entirely insignificant in the ORF. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... the old Stalinist!]] That is irrelevant for Mr Westenthal. Let's not take it seriously. Perhaps we should try to deal with the facts. The fact is that a report was made, as you have correctly described it, with these two people, who apparently were already part of an ORF report even in the martial dog documentation. As far as the Council of Editors has also described to me – I have also come to know and tried to sum up the data – it has become clear in this report that one of these dog owners has a strong affinity with the FPÖ, has also presented himself as a strache selector, that in its environment... [[Abg. Strache: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's not true at all!]] . I am now saying what has been presented to me, and that will be legitimate in this House too. [[Abg. Strache: Where are you quoting this?]] If you constantly quote from your Nazi statistics, as you yourself have referred to it, and whose protocols represent the truth, then you will be able to represent the official situation that the ORF represents. [[Abg. Strache: That's not true at all!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Maybe you'll listen a little bit. We already know your files from other cases. Fact is – I thought it would be so loud that you can't talk because you won't listen to it, but I've been working on it – fact is that the editors have said it's interesting to present the environment of these people in a reportage. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: You weren't there!]] It may be shared on whether this is legitimate or not, but I believe that it is also permitted under the public service contract to carry out such political reporting. [[Abg. Neubauer: After you have a democratic understanding!]] – Yes, I know you don't have that anyway. [[Abg. New builder: This is inconceivable! There's something like that in this house!]] We always see the events, FPÖ party events, where the right-wing extremists occur: Camera to, hide, nothing can be reported. [[Abg. These are precepts!]] That's exactly the picture you're conveying. But obviously it's not about it. [[Abg. Strache: These are exactly the manipulative historians!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] So it was about presenting this in the form of a report – then some things would be relatively clear, including who has a micro in the reportage. I also tried to look at exactly what happened to quotations there. The “Sieg Heil!” story you mention does not appear on the band. I can only hear the band released, I didn't film the band. If there have been manipulations – I am with Mr Cap – I assume that these manipulations you have claimed will also be presented. I assume now that the band you can look at is what is in the original text there. And there was the statement: Now you say, I believe what you said otherwise, the editor's statement to the Nazi provocateur you mentioned. Apparently they also agreed that they would go to this event in Wiener Neustadt. And apparently a very small section of the report, which will be filmed there tomorrow, is about this event in Wiener Neustadt. [[Abg. Strache: Because the rest is not shown!]] What you represent is something completely different. [[Abg. Strache: Because now the rest is no longer shown!]] They shall state the following: [[Abg. Strache: Because the whole plan has been revealed!]] There was a FPÖ event – that can be put out of dispute, okay, that's out of dispute – and the only purpose of these people's appearance there was to give Nazi slogans of themselves to harm the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's right, too!]] That's your claim. [[Abg. That's it!]] The other claim is that there was a report of people who said they are sting voters, they feel an affinity to the party, they are people who actually find the sting good, and a report about it. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: They didn't say!]] [[Abg. Strache: You admit to be against the FPÖ and not to appreciate me! So much for the truth!]] We'll see how it's presented tomorrow. I wonder if it is, in principle, illegal to turn such reports. I don't think so. We'll take a look at this tomorrow. And there are the bodies, including the Federal Communications Senate, which will make decisions there too. But in this context I already ask: What happened in the ORF? And you don't need to explain to me that this is a coincidence. Ms. Rosenkranz has been under pressure following the announcement of her candidacy. Why? – Because she gave two interviews, in the “ZiB 2” and in the “Morgenjournal”, in which she was unable to answer the question of whether she disputed the existence of gas chambers to give a clear answer, but spoke about it because she said there that she was questioning the Prohibition Law. And as a result of exactly this clear and sharp interview of the ORF, you have started to conduct this campaign against the ORF. That's just as obvious. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] If my colleague comes to the debate here, this will also give us a significant light. I only say that there are votes from the EIA that say white voting is more favourable in this situation. [[Abg. Strache: It'll probably get an Oscar soon!]] By the way, there is a second band that the ORF has released in the last few days – not quite so prominent. You know what that was? – This was the interview from the “Report” with Mr. Klubobmann Schneeberger from ÖVP Niederösterreich, who, after his statement in the “Report”, said that ÖVP voters will choose rosary rather than fisherman or white, said that this was not the case. The ORF has also placed the entire 10-minute interview, from which a sequence was taken out, on the homepage. And I really can't believe that it's all a coincidence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us therefore try to clarify the situation. If there have been manipulations, then they must be clarified, but it must be possible in a legal procedure to first hear both sides and then come to a judgment. Just because you're quoting here about that, as you yourself say, Nazi... – how was that? ., Nazi-statists – which is now apparently the basis of the parliamentary debate – one of what your Nazi-statist says is obviously accepted of the truth content without review. [[Abg. Two witnesses!]] The other Nazi statistics might be. I don't know who the second witness was. [[Abg. Strache: Plus more...!]] This is already a rule of law which, from my point of view, is extremely worrying. What is clear is clear. But one thing must be possible: to conduct critical journalism also in the context of parties, to film events, extreme-rights meetings, a demonstration or a ball of citizens in the German-national camp, to record the discussions that Mr. Graf has repeatedly started on the question of how this was with responsibility after the Second World War. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We have always taken responsibility!]] All these are things that have been shown in the ORF, in the “Report. ” And I will be very committed to ensuring that this form of reporting is also possible in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18484	After I am still referring to the information on what Mr Ing has said. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18515	I'll take up the interrupted session again and share the following – I hope I'll give it back perfectly now –: First: The ORF only has a live stream during live broadcasts. The reference ‘Livestream 17h’ refers to the ‘ZiB’ at 5 p.m. Parliament's current is as follows: APA, “Standard” online, and both are running. [[Abg. Grosz: That's not true, you can always get over the ORF!]] That's the information I got. [[Prolonged calls.]] I am assured that there will be no live stream on ORF Online if there is no live broadcast. I can only now predict and reflect what the ORF has said to me, but the Parliamentary Directorate, who is constantly concerned about these matters. So I do not have this information from the ORF, but from the Parliamentary Directorate. If that is not the case, we will continue to talk in the presidency. - That's all I can do now. Mr Hofer, you want to speak again about business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18562	Madam President. Unfortunately, that is not quite correct. The fact is that Parliament's live stream is not available either. That's why we did screenshots to document this. It has definitely not been transferred during this period.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18583	Good. I am just being whispered that Parliament's live stream is often overburdened. [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a chance!]] [[Abg. Doppler: That's never been!]] That's not true! That's also the reason why there's a web-relaunch that's been working on for a year and a half. I have already informed the members of the Presidential Conference once and for all that we expect the new web-rerunch to go online by the middle of this year. By the way, the standard stream is fully at work. This is the background and the fact. We can continue to talk about this at the next presidency. [[Call the FPÖ:... unbelievable!]] Next, Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18644	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is beyond dispute – and this is now also the current discussion – that media have a very high responsibility in a democratic society. One can easily fix this to two facts: On the one hand, not only have many media scientists, philosophers and writers, such as Bert Brecht, been involved in the role of the media, the ethos of the media, but also in the task of media for democracy. The importance of media in a democracy also shows how non-democratic regimes deal with media. Let's look at China right now, where the media operator needs to emigrate to Hong Kong, because the Communist government is practicing censorship. These two facts, that so many people are dealing with the role and task of the media, and that non-democratic systems are always the first to turn off or switch on media, show once again how important the question of media is in a democracy, and also the question of how public-law channels behave. Not in vain, public-law channels have been introduced precisely because of this, and therefore they are paying fees from taxpayers, because they have the task of providing media democracy as public-law companies, and because they have the task of reporting objectively, independently and in diversity about the events in the country in question. All the more serious is the accusation, if exactly the ORF as a public-law company, financed from fees and thus from tax money, is clearly confused with a feature film, that it is a documentation or a “environmental study”, as it is called on the ORF’s side: where some people are called to a preliminary meeting, paid for it; then they are led to the film set, there is an exact script where this is then shot, and then there is a follow-up discussion, and then the whole thing goes on broadcast. If this really should be true and this has happened in such a way that an externally represented mission as an independent documentation or environmental study is actually used to make a political report against a particular party in a feature film, then this is absolutely inadmissible for a public-law channel, and then there must be immediate consequences for the editors and those responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What I really think is disastrous in this regard is the handling of the ORF with these accusations. Instead of the ORF, I would deal with these accusations offensively and openly and transparently and say that we will immediately release the editor when these accusations are in the room. A service exemption from the editor until the allegations were cleared would have been the first right step. The second step would have been to turn on justice immediately, to clarify everything, perhaps also to set up an internal investigation committee to clarify these allegations without delay. This would have been also in the interests and in the interests of the company, that would have been in the sense of the employees, who are now all wrongfully – you have to say that too – being pushed into a tight light. But what's the ORF doing? – He walls, he fights, he blocks, he hides, he doesn't reveal he covers. The whole thing just makes things worse, and the whole thing hurts the ORF all the more. It is also possible to document how the ORF informs: On Saturday, 13th. In March, the Info Director Oberhauser declared the accusations that the accusations were carefully examined and clarified. On Saturday! On Sunday, we know, everyone is at home or wherever. – On Monday morning, the ORF delivered its opinion: The ORF editor has not been blamed for any inaccuracies. I do not assume that one can explain these serious accusations within a weekend, on a Sunday, so that one can acquit the editor concerned of any responsibility. [[Abg. Strache: Except for the Strobl, he was assigned to do so! This is possible, of course! Maybe the Strobl ordered him?]] This is not a professional, not a proper communication and crisis management of a public-law company and damages the ORF and its employees as a whole. Again: It would have been more appropriate to exempt the editor from the service and to clarify allegations and to contribute in the interests of the company itself to the fact that there are no rumors or accusations in the room, but facts are put on the table and the truth is simply revealed. This has not happened, therefore we have the discussion now and we also have to ask ourselves why the ORF does not happen, why here is hidden and walled. Is this a single case, or does the system have the method? – I am not quite sure, for one thing is already obvious, ladies and gentlemen, and I really want to say this here: that there is a systematic preference for certain parties, which have the say in ORF, that the greens in the ORF are getting away quite well, because they have the Pius Strobl there, and that the legal parties, both FPÖ and BZÖ, are experiencing a systematic disadvantage in the ORF. I should like to give you an example of how the invitation policy in the ORF works. We have selected a week as an example, observed for a week the invitation policy of the ORF in the discussions: On Tuesday in the “Report” we had Eva Glavischnig of the Greens to visit. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: When?]] – That was not last week, but a week that we systematically took out. That was at the end of last year. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Last week? – 2007!]] – Then in the “press hour” on the following Sunday was Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner, ÖVP. Then the “High House ” was: Secretary of State Arbitrator, SPÖ. Then “In the center”, again beautifully divided between SPÖ and ÖVP: Mr Mitterlehner and Mr State Secretary Arbitrator. That is how it is done systematically. [[Abg. That's the system! Mr Ostermayer states what is being reported! It was not by chance, it was commissioned and with system!]] When it comes to policy issues, the Greens are invited, SPÖ and ÖVP are invited and BZÖ and FPÖ are locked out. When it comes to attaching FPÖ or BZÖ to any scandal or if there is any great excitement, you are invited and may justify yourself. Such an invitation policy is not the task of a public-law company, but the ORF, as a public-law company, has the task and the duty to send all political opinions – regardless of how one may personally stand on these opinions – to all parties represented in Parliament in the same form, in the same way, to the same extent as the aether. [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why was... not invited to “light in the dark”?]] This is not happening at the moment, and we should take this incident that the FPÖ has revealed here to discuss the independence, objectivity of the ORF and public broadcasting in Austria as a whole and to make improvements here: That there is in fact no such independence of the ORF at all proves that the ORF itself every day. [[Congratulations on Members of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Final sentence: If the ORF does not correct this urgently – I have to say it quite openly – then it has lost every right to continue to levy fees from the Austrians. Then the fees belong abolished, because we pay fees for an independent, objective ORF and not for a red and black radio! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18759	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18781	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Cap has raised the question of where these documents can be obtained. I can tell him the secret: Mr. Klubobmann Strache is a private participant, and according to our legal order, he therefore has insight into these protocols of accused and witness hearings and copies of them – in order to resolve this mystery for the Social Democrats perhaps once. On Mr Brosz's statement: He wanted to make us aware of this today, at the ORF, when he's running such a documentation, it's actually just a travel agency for right-wing extremists. – I quote: He wanted to travel with me – meaning Ed – without the others to Budapest for the “day of honor”, to France and to England on a Hammerskin festival. It offered return trip, stay and 150 € per day. He meant that he's now one of the neo-Nazis. Of course, we didn't believe that. Not even we would call ourselves neonazis. I'd rather call myself a free thinker. - Quote. And then Mr. Brosz said: Well, they may not have had any money to drive to Wiener Neustadt, these poor right-wing extremists and neo-Nazis, because the ORF has to stop the taxi from the television fees, because I quote: For the event in Wiener Neustadt he offered us 100 to 150 €. - Quote. And then he also tells us that in reality Mr. Moschitz found out that they are all stucco voters. . I would also like to quote the gentleman concerned: At the event, we should be easy to talk out of here. He knew we were actually against the line. - Quote. So, this is this “clear electoral behavior ” that comes to light. I quote: For certain statements, which are typical of right-wing extremity, there are small premiums. We knew that this meant things like “wine salvation! ” For my representations in front of the camera I received a total of 600 or 700 € for all three or four shooting days. - Quote. That's what was put on record by the police. And you want to completely twist things here. A colleague of mine said he was disappointed by you. I don't, because I would have been fooled in you in principle if that were an end to deception. I have not been deceived in you, because you belong to another group that in Austria wants to put something else in the left light. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now coming to this format ‘At the scene’. The ORF itself says on its home page – also called “Homepage” for my colleague Pilz: “At the scene” maintains the tradition of finely sensitive reporting with depth.” – Now we know what is meant by it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Vilimsky and Kickl.]] – “The theme range is broad: Social reports, unusual life stories, loving-ironic environmental studies.” This is the transmission format of “Am Schauplatz”. But since the 12th century. A further issue can be added on March: Diffamation of a parliamentary party by manipulation with ordered Nazi statistics and hate posters. – This is what the ORF has done here by its journalist. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what does an editor like Mr Moschitz think about these methods of a self-proclaimed and decorated journalist? In 2004 he received the Leopold Hungarian Media Prize from the Caritas and Raiffeisen. Mr. Konrad held the Laudatio for this – I quote on the grounds of the editorial style: ‘Ed Moschitz, with his documentary approach to the subject, is never intrusive, nothing works.’ [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] And on top of that: “He leaves people in front of the camera their dignity. If it makes emotions visible, it still keeps the necessary distance.” [[New ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] “The jury here is also characterized by a journalist’s willingness to overcome borders” – yes, you have to say, there has really been a border, but I believe that “overcoming” is the wrong word, because a special overcoming was, I believe, not that it was done – “but also accepting borders.” – We did not see that with God. But he also received a different prize, the Media Award Davos 2005. This “international media prize Davos honours extraordinary achievements in journalism... in the information society... and in modern democracy bad”. Well, if that is the example, then all these jurors should now consider in retrospect whether this Mr Moschitz is indeed worthy of such contributions and such prizes. “Social-politically relevant” for this Davos prize “every subject that helps citizens in a democracy to find themselves too right in their world and to act actively at the political events in their country.” So, we have seen this with the friendly transport of the three rulers to the event of the Freedom Party! We've seen that, of course. [[Abg. Strache: There they have been able to act!]] Finally, there is a prize in March from the state of Styria for Mr. Moschitz, where Mr. Landtags President Flecker – who is in himself quite well-located in the political spectrum, perhaps some of him from Social Democracy – receives another €6,000 from the State Fund. However, what I am missing is actually the cry of the journalists as a whole, because Mr Moschitz has done a real bear service to journalism in Austria. [[Abg. Bitch: A huge damage!]] A mad damage has arisen – and no one is touching: Austrian Journalists' Club, Journalists' Union. Where was she now with a statement? I've been looking at: The only thing that makes the Journalist Union – which has now also been included in the GPA – is to call on the “light dance against Rosary”. This is the only interest which the trade-unioned journalists in Austria have clearly in front of themselves. – I think these are conditions, given that many decent, self-confident journalists should actually rise to the barricades. The next scandal is how the ORF deals with it: Hide! Nothing! – But this fits together: from the e-mail to Madam President Prammer, to the top line of colleague Ollinger, to the stage of the "Canace" e-mail from the above Austrian Greens. That's all right. Here, medial against the FPÖ is heated! This is now the first case where you could prove it, and that is bothering many. That's why many people keep their mouth shut. I only hope one thing: that Mr Pius Strobl will soon be a press representative at the Green Parliamentary Club, because he belongs there.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18878	Mr Wittmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e18900	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I believe that this is a very delicate precedent, which is not yet projectable throughout the dimension. However, I think it is wrong to say here in the first anger of the one hand that this would be already a completed case, where all these claims would have already been verified, where all these claims would have already been established in a sustainable manner. That is not the case. And we as Parliament are very well called upon to become active only when it is really proven what happened there. We have instruments to do this, and these instruments are in court. And only when the court has determined and has come to a decision should one talk about political responsibilities here. This is important on this issue because it concerns all of us. No man wants to do everything that Mr. Strache has said is right. No one can approve of that – if it is true! That is why it is also very, very advisable, to wait for it to be true. We have to keep the balance here: On the one hand, we must not intervene in the independence of journalism, and on the other hand we have a journalism that, in such a form as it was claimed here, has not lost anything in a democracy. But that is not our task, but that is the task of the court! There, too, one should take the division of powers seriously. It is the wrong request today to give the Federal Chancellor an order to intervene in the ORF in an uncompleted court procedure. I do not want to live in any republic where I can instruct the Chancellor to intervene in the independence of journalists. That would be the completely wrong way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: comply with the laws! The application is formulated in such a way that he has to comply with the laws!]] I have just told you – Mr Strache, I am on your side: If he's broken the laws, you can't let that break in. But that must be determined in a proper procedure! That's why there are the legislatives that are separate from the jurisdiction! And you should just wait and see what comes out. [[Abg. Strache: The ORF law has not been complied with!]] And then you can very well take action – there are various possibilities within our legal framework. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't comply with the ORF law! It is not about the legal question at all!]] But, please, don't scandalize something now if it hasn't even been found! If you are looking at these witnesses, you have to assume: One will say that, the other will say that! I think it is worrying not to respect the strict separation of jurisdiction and legislation on such a delicate issue. [[Abg. Vilimsky: As if you were so tender!]] I believe that we are well advised to continue to do so and in our own interest – that of politics – but also in the interest of the independence of journalism here is not quick to act in a scandalous way and not to give way to pre-conceptions, but, if something is true, to deal with all sorts of hardness. I don't think anyone wants that to happen – no matter which party, no matter what person, and no matter what form. This is to be condemned if it is to be voted – but it must first be determined by one of our independent authorities, and that is just the court. I think we should keep this path, then we can also preserve the highest possible form of independence of journalists, but still we cannot tolerate a journalism that creates such activities in space. – I think this balance would be very appropriate in this debate. Just a word about the event in Wiener Neustadt: Mr. Strache, you were also more often in Wiener Neustadt than Her former party colleague, Haider, spoke. This one has already dealt with this issue a little different. Because of Mrs Rosenkranz's statements, you have of course attracted a certain kind of people. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I was a witness to your event myself and I know that people who are very close to the right edge in Wiener Neustadt were also very close to this event. Do you know what honourable Member Haider did back then? - He let them go by the police. You didn't do that. You have such a sloppy... [[Abg. Strache: These were not right-wing extremists! You are now saying that the citizens who were there belong to the right margin?! How are you? Is that your mind?]] That your events are only orphans, no one believes you. [[Abg. I'm sorry, with all my appreciation, but if something goes wrong with my events, I'm yelling at it!]] – So quite honestly, I know that at this event there were also people who are very close to the right edge in Wiener Neustadt, and Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill will confirm this to you, because it has been quite simply that way. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Do something different about this topic! Do something different about this topic! Yeah, I was at the main square. [[Abg. Street: These were citizens, entrepreneurs in the main square! ...!]] No, also others, but there were 20 people there who certainly had this margin... – No, but at the event were also people of the right margin. [[Abg. Street: Do you want to assign the 800 000 who choose the FPÖ to the right margin?]] There were also people on the right margin. [[Abg. Strache: This is exactly the method that the SPÖ...: diffamating, discrediting!]] Leave the church in the village! You want to scandalize everything because you are now, of course, sensitized by Mrs Rosary. Of course, that these statements attract these people, you have to answer. [[Abg. That's what you're doing! You're doing this, that's the cleanery!]] You have to answer that these people also attract these people, and they were there too, because as a former mayor of Wiener Neustadt, I know several people – that is the same thing. [[Abg. Strache: Were you at the left extremities? Were you on the left-wing extremities that people beat down?]] I'll tell you once again: You need to separate yourself a little more from this edge! I'll write this to you in the main book. [[Abg. Strache: The left-wing extremist socialist youth was there and hurt people! Body injury! A demonstration of socialist youth resulted in body injuries!]] The events of your predecessor and model have passed differently: He turned them away and wanted nothing to do with it. You have, of course, through these oath statements Her presidential candidate is an appeal to these people, and that is the problem. You have to deal with this, and you have to learn to deal with it, and that in a correct form. This has nothing to do with the ORF now, that is only my perception of your event in Wiener Neustadt.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19131	Mr Amon has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19152	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann, you have called for objectivity to be exercised on this issue, for the facts to be examined, and then, as it were, to be judged. – I would have expected such a statement from the Secretary of State. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That is not necessary, Mr Amon!]] Mr State Secretary, I cannot understand your opinion today, I would like to say it very clearly, because, as a media secretary, you are responsible for the framework conditions concerning the media, and of course also for the ORF, but you are not the first lawyer of the ORF or the first lawyer of individual ORF editors. I would like to add this very clearly to the Minutes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is indeed a very sensitive debate today, Mr State Secretary. I give you the following point: The request made here by the FPÖ cannot be implemented by the Federal Chancellor, you rightly criticized that, but I would have expected some critical word from you if such serious accusations were in the room. [[Abg. Silhavy: But these are allegations! Allegations!]] And, Mrs Silhavy, it speaks a lot of about it when you look at the things that have happened as Mr Strache has described here today. If it is so that this has happened, then it is extremely problematic and then the principle of “Beware of the beginnings!” must be applied here in a very special way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It also bothers me – and I would also like to make this very clear in this debate – that from the side of the ORF, from the leadership of the ORF and also from the front and without proper review, the wall is made immediately and said that it is all false, it is all invented, and by the way, everything has been completely different. Mr State Secretary and ladies and gentlemen. The ORF Redaktor Council has only responded to the accusations of the clubman Strache in such a way that he has said that it would be right away from the ORF to complain. And then he says the following – and I quote from the issue of the ORF Editor's Council: “Either it becomes clear in court that Mr Straches ‘information’ from the ORF” – because he just said it was confirmed by a leader of the ORF that this was so happening; I continue to quote – “claims are without any real background, or it appears that in the ORF leadership there is someone who acts against the ORF.” But there is also a third possibility, namely that it has played as the accusation is. – It would actually be good for the ORF Editorial Council to consider this possibility at least. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It's still going on, my Ladies and gentlemen: It then says that this goes beyond ‘common’ party-political wailing beyond unloving reporting’, and it means that this is a criminalisation attempt at journalistic work, an attack on the editorial secrecy and inconspicuous behaviour of the investigative authorities. [[Abg. That's inconceivable!]] – That is clear, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is really inconceivable!]] It goes further in the direction of our clubman: ‘(Media)politically as embarrassing as it is remarkable that ÖVP-Klubobmann Karlheinz Kopf is trying to make the unsustainable ‘manipulations’ accusations of the FPÖ useful for the continuation of his anti-ORF field train.’ [[Abg. That's inconceivable! That's inconceivable!]] It goes on this way – I quote just one small extract –: “... are not worth mentioning for the ÖVP speaker. This is in line with the changes to media laws planned by Karlheinz's chief negotiators." [[Calls of the Abg. Strache and Kickl.]] Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: If the ORF Council of Editors has such an opinion of our political positions, how objective can the reporting be at all? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] That's unacceptable! I should like to say this clearly, Mr State Secretary. And even if you cannot direct this together with Mr Bundeskanzler, I expect a clear opinion not only from you, but also, of course, from the Director-General of the ORF on such accusations. He has to take a position, Mr. State Secretary! You can't go over it so nonchalantly and say: Well, that's an editor. Who knows if it really is, and by the way, it doesn't matter to us. Madam President, your current interruption after the Rules of Procedure is not understandable to me either. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: But now it's enough!]] We're going to interrupt all the time, just because that's what's going on with the ORF. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This is the...!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Wasn't the colleague Neugebauer there...?]] I have proposed that we should be able to pass Parliament meetings on time, which would, of course, save us the interruption. And it would also be necessary to consider whether the images produced here in the house could be produced by Parliament and then made available to all media alike.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19346	Mr President, we have already had the model of not interrupting. - I can live with it. [[Abg. Amon: But we didn't have the contemporary transmission!]] This is not in the interest of the Members, I note this point, and we have therefore returned to interruptions. That's not my wish. [[Abg. Amon: No, the contemporary transmission...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19402	I'm actually correcting: In his speech, Mr. Wittmann, member of the National Council, said that it would have been the right-wing edge of the FPÖ in Wiener Neustadt among the around 800 citizens present. I strongly and energetically reject this, because what the police found was that there were extremists in this place – from the left: a reported demonstration of Greens, Socialists and Communists, where violence against civilians also occurred, in which body injuries were also reported, and in which arrests of these left-wing extremists also occurred.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19429	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19461	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to clarify this immediately in advance: I am in favour of absolute clarification on this matter, but I am also against any prejudgment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. You don't believe that!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What we have experienced here today was a two-hour pre-conception of a editor or an editorial board which, unlike you, you can express yourself in detail, cannot make any arguments here, in this context, no defence of their position. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Abg. Mr. Klubobmann, do you have to listen to this or can you go out there?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] What you've done here is to say: What the two Nazi-statists have said now in court or in front of the police is true. – If I compare this with what you have said to these two people – these two Nazi states, as you call them – before what they have done for, I have to ask myself: Why do you judge the value of the statements of these two people in court – and it may be true, but it may not be true – at once as a hundred percent truth, and the other, the incident itself, in which they played a role, are you considered scandalous? - That's one. [[Abg. Vilimsky: He was there!]] [[Abg. Strache: I have experienced it as a witness!]] I am not interested in this incident unless I see that I am against the prejudgment and the clear... – Mr Strache, I say something to you: [[Abg. Street: Since when are you against pre-conceptions? This is a new access from you!]] There is no need to stage contacts from Neonazis to the FPÖ. [[Abg. You're all right!]] They are not to be staged because they take place in the everyday life of the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Strache, I am not going to deal with the incidents on the occasion of rallys, which you are always saying are some left provocateurs who then raise their hands. I will not deal with it, but with life in your party, as it has happened in these days and in recent years. [[Abg. Neubauer: You lied to the committee too!]] You're on your way, Mr. Neubauer. [[Abg. Street:... getting cars lit, cops..., you're there!]] Do you know a Mr. Harald Haas, works councillor in Voest? – He was present at the meeting of Nazis that took place in St. Johann im Pongau. This is an AUF and FPÖ man. Do you know Mr. Wimmer Detlef? - You know him because he's a city councillor in Linz. He was at the Federation Free youth, together with Mr Kohlbauer, with Mr Retschitzegger, with Mr Stefan Haider and many other officials of the Free Youth Ring – many others! [[Abg. New builder: This is the next...! That's not true!]] [[Abg. Strache: You say that only under the protection of immunity! Under the protection of immunity, you throw the people with dirt!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Say it outside, not under the eagle!]] Do you know, Mr Strache, that some of these officials who were in the Free Youth Federation and the RFJ, for example, went to Romania for a meeting of a neo-Nazi party? – You can still find the pictures on the Internet. This party is called “Noua Dreapta”, which is a Nazi troupe. There you can see officials of the BFJ and the RFJ sitting together with these persons. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: When do you finally wake up from this nightmare?]] Do you know, Mr. Strache, that Mr. Juritz, who was, at least until recently, the district chairman of the Freedom Youth Ring in Germany, together with Mr. Pfingstl, who served as a member of the RFS and the Freedom Youth Ring until recently...? – Juritz was in Germany, I know. [[Abg. Grosz: Deutschlandsberg? Hold it, no! Not Germanysberg, Fürstenfeld!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Leave my beautiful home town alone!]] Mr. Juritz was in Germany, and he not only disturbed a birthday party with Mr. Pfingstl, who was a RFS functional and an RFJ functional, now – a few weeks ago – together with other neo-Nazis, but also beat the birthday child together because the songs did not fit him. Do you know what happens in some of your local groups? – This is not a dirt, these are realities, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Strache: Under the protection of immunity you go here and claim such things, the dirt...!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek:..., don't lie!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you that in a neighboring town of Mariazell – Mr. Kurzmann knows this – the top candidate of the FPÖ was seen in a picture that was recorded in a local that is also credited to the FPÖ in 2007, where these top candidates of the FPÖ there are seen with a right-wing T-shirt on the occasion of the concert of a German Nazi group called Agitator. [[Abg. Strache: Another untruth! Under the protection of immunity, you say an untruth!]] Do you know which songs the group Agitator obviously gives to the best of in front of a group of FPÖ audiences? – Among other things, it sings: [[Abg. Strache: Under the protection of immunity you give exactly this untruth for the best!]] I am with body and soul Nazi, and I know for sure: There's nothing better for me, I'll stay Nazi for all time! Such a way, Mr. Strache, are contacts of some people in your party. [[Abg. Strache: Such untruths that give you the best under the protection of immunity! That's a scandal!]] I do not want to say that there are other people in your party who are dissociating from it, for example from the incident that has occurred in Principality, and of which Mr Kurzmann knows: That calls – now I'm again with colleague Grosz – FPÖ-functionary, a Mr. Pentecostl, that's obviously the brother, to whom Mr. Radl "Heil Hitler!". [[Abg. Strache: This is also false, again under the protection of immunity! Last class!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Then officials of the FPÖ say that they no longer want to play this game, and distance themselves from Mr. Pentecostl. [[Abg. Street: Such untruths as you spread them here are last-class! Simply claim untruths to discredit people, that's your method!]] Such are incidents that happen in your party, around your party, where there are also some people in the FPÖ who are dissociating – but that is the minority. I would have expected from you, Mr Strache, that you would have the strength to clearly distance yourself from neonazist detours that have been taking place on the margins of your party over the last few years and also at present, and that you exclude the responsible officials from your party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] As long as you don't do that, as long as you don't have a clear distance to neonazism, you'll have to let yourself be allowed to refer the FPÖ again and again to such, namely, right-wing extreme activities. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Can the ORF continue paying statistics!]] [[Abg. Strache: Under the protection of immunity!]] That's what it looks like. And that is all, Mr Strache, what I have to say.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19832	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. There is a second actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19857	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger claimed that Mr Detlef Wimmer was a member of the BFJ. I'm correcting as follows: Mr. Detlef Wimmer, city councillor in Linz, was never a member of the BFJ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19891	Mr Kurzmann spoke in favour of another actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19916	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few minutes ago, Mr. Oellinger claimed that the liberal functionary Werner Pfingstl had greeted “Heil Hitler” in a locality in Feldbach near Graz. As the country party observer of the liberals in the Styria, I note that I have so far received loud affidavits that do not prove what you claim.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19953	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll put the clock at 10 minutes. I'm just saying equal to: We've lost the electronics right now, but that doesn't bother, we're gonna stop anyway. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e19980	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr State Secretary, you have been made relatively simple with the text today. There you have been able to get out of the affair in a nice form with constitutionally formal correct arguments. It is indeed true that the decision, as it is proposed here, could not be approved. But we will nevertheless agree, as an act of demonstration. As an act of demonstration to make it clear that this is not the case. By the way, Mr Oellinger: It wouldn't happen, either, if all that you've presented here was true. Let's get this done. This would not justify the behaviour of the ORF in this question, with no single indent. One has nothing to do with the other at all. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Two of them: If it is true that an ORF employee has ordered money for particularly serious statements – the colleague named Strache – that I do not repeat them here – that money has been given for the acquisition of appropriate utensils, that even costs have been offered for Nazi meetings, as it stands here, then it is criminally relevant. This is criminally relevant, Mr Wittmann, but that is the end of it. For what has already been admitted, namely that there have been payments to these rulers – and the ORF itself has even confirmed this – is not necessarily criminally relevant and yet a violation of the law, namely a clear violation of the law against § 1 para. 3 ORF Act and against § 4 para. 5 ORF Act. And that doesn't mean the justice. That would have been the communication Senate. And it's enough for me to know today. I do not need justice to do this because the judicial system will not make this statement. This is not a law to be observed by justice, but it is a law that the ORF must observe, which is partly in the constitutional rank and which has been broken. Do you know why I'm inclined to believe that's true, what's reported here? Because I have the same thing to say myself. Yeah, I'll explain this to you. That is, what has already been admitted does not comply with the law, contravenes the ORF law, contradicts the ORF guidelines and is by all means already a reason enough for the ORF to act. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] If it turns out that there is also a culprit for crimes against the Prohibition Law, then the matter is all the more dramatic. But what is already on the table and has been admitted is dramatic enough for me. Ad three: Ladies and gentlemen, I have experienced inside here – and the older Members of us who have been in the National Council for a long time can remember – what campaign there was at the time of the letter bomb terrorism against Jörg Haider and the FPÖ at that time. Incredible! All of us were letter bomb terrorists, all in line! There was even a judgment – that was taken up to the Strasbourg Court – that Mr Pilz was able to claim Frankly and freely, Jörg Haider is the leader of a right-wing extreme terror, which turned out to be a left-wing terror at the latest after Ebergassing. [[Call the Greens: Go!]] – But, of course, don’t say “go”! Those who are in the field there were your family members, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] When it turned out that the letterbomber was an old socio, I said here from this Rostra: It was a socio! And because You didn't want to hear it, I told you 20 times. As a result, the entire left part of the house has been removed. They were all out there! [[The speaker points by hand towards Couloir.]] There's never been that in this house before. Remember! Everybody out! Then there was an intervention by Mr Press Officer Josef Kalina, then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, at the ORF. And I know from editors that this was not to be sent in the evening in the ‘time in the picture’, ladies and gentlemen! So much on the subject of objectivity of Austrian broadcasting. There has been no such scene here in the house for years and days. At the time of the push of the button, the ORF, about Kalina's intervention in the ORF, made sure that it was not reported. [[Abg. Scheibner: Granted!]] - Granted even! Third example: I myself have become almost victims of a similar attempt. As a young Member of the Vorarlberger Landtag, an editor who wanted to make a career and later also made a career comes up with the idea of putting some descendants of Mr Hjalmar Schacht as a contact person on discussions on the abolition of the German-Austrian border. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] A total nonsense! I'm being loaded into the ORF, I'm confronted with a video where this skinhead simply claims it franc and free. I'll cut the whole thing off: At the time, there was a single decent social democrat, the former head of the Vorarlberg trade union, Karl Fühlinger, to whom I hold high regard for the rest of his days, who went out and said he is in no way a sense with Ewald Stadler in political terms, he rarely shares my political views, if at all, but he knows that the Ewald Stadler is not so stupid that he softens such a nonsense. - And the thing was done with it. The ORF wanted to continue, including the then black country intern, ladies and gentlemen! So, that's my subjective experience. I knew how to get into devil's kitchen with such a fake story. But it was only over because there was a decent social democrat. That was the only decent person in this whole game. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is he today? Is there any of these today?]] I missed them today, ladies and gentlemen! I missed it today. My dear Peter Wittmann, I guess you're incredible! You know that. I guess you're a lawyer, too. But if you go out here and say to already admitted facts that are clear violations of the law against the background of the ORF law, which clearly violates the ORF's guidelines, then still say that's doubtful, you have to examine all of this first, I say: What has already been admitted is enough to make it clear to the ORF that the country cannot act as a public-law institution, ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it is! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Let me give you another example, which has not been clarified to this day: The entire agitation of ORF employees around Arizona Zogaj. I know in conclusion that there were ORF editors who knew exactly where the already illegally resident, police-seeked Arizona Zogaj had been able to pass on the wrong information to the police and had a good time and, so to speak, were the taxmen of this whole thing. This is the task of Austrian radio? Is the objectivity ban? Is it objectivity, ladies and gentlemen, when the ORF itself produces the stories? If we don't have Nazis at our disposal that you can really tell about, we'll create which one? Everything has already taken place abroad, but we are not responsible for it. We have a public-law institution that has a privileged position alone in that it can collect compulsory fees from the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, here there is a clear legal mandate behind it if you already have such a privileged institution. And then people who produce such fake stories have lost nothing there, ladies and gentlemen – in all form! [[In the case of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of the Abg. Amon.]] This has nothing to do with a persecution of journalists. And finally, as a Catholic, I say to you: If I were the enemy of my own money, I would like to join the TV in every broadcast of the religious editorship – especially “cross & cross”. But I am not the enemy of my own money, so I hide the TV and go on another program. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] The majority of the Austrians are still Catholic, thank God. This will not change the current campaigns against the Church either. But what is happening in the religious editorial about agitation against the Church! The bishops are only too cowardly to resist. But I mean, Ladies and gentlemen, take the opportunity to make it clear once again that Austrian broadcasting should at last take account of the majority of this country as far as confessional confessions are concerned and that it should stop the anti-Church agitation, as the ORF does not have a legal basis for it and has no moral basis for acting against any parliamentary party in this House, no more than against a confession, ladies and gentlemen. [[He also welcomed BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why I'm saying: The majority of the ORF editors are decent and neat, but it is high time to say that there is an environment in the ORF that believes that, with politically correct basic attitude as a good man in the country, it is possible to allow misunderstanding political opponents to allow everything. It has been high time we debated this openly in this House. And it should not be the last debate if the ORF does not finally pursue a different policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20116	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20137	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Once in the direction of Mr Wittmann: I have to tell you – even if it hurts so much! – those who visited our election rally in Wiener Neustadt with our Federal Party observer on this day were your former voters! That is right and important that most of the former Social Democratic voters have this time set a mark and elected FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, of course, I must reject your statements. I would like to reject this in the same way as the realm of dreams in which Mr Ollinger is constantly present. Now he's gone into his notebook. You should finally wake up from your dream – you would actually have to get into bed and wake up at all times! – to have the FPÖ “explored”. You can't expose us! These are fairy tales. You should actually generate for these fairy fairy tales, Mr. Ollinger! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. What we notice, for example, is that you like to stay where it is warm, namely where police cars burn, where portals of Businesses burn when your left-wing extreme people demonstrate. You have to say that here in this clarity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would now like to come back to this incident in Wiener Neustadt. I've been there myself, I can explain this on oaths as well. I would like to sum up this again. We've heard a lot about it today. It's not about whether it's possible things that happened. That's hard facts. Fact 1: It's bad enough – no matter if it's a manipulation; that's the second bad topic: It was staged to adapt the Freedom Party and our Federal Party Observer at this election event. It was staging, and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can speak well and gladly of a black Friday for the ORF. And that will certainly also have consequences, I can assure you. What happened? – I gather this again briefly, and I also try to talk slowly so that the last in this plenary room also understand and understand The ORF karrt right-wing extremists to a election event of the FPÖ – Fact 1. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] Fact 2: These so-called Nazi-statists are paid so that they come into the picture of a camera with our federal partyobmann. And then what really happened happened, then this sage just fell. I was there, I heard that live. That's it. That's nothing you can abdicate. This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. It goes on: One has designed provocative posters to provoke the left-wing demonstrators, also under the active support of the lovingly called Eduard Moschitz or Ed Moschitz. And the ORF offers 80 € for right-wing sager. – These are all points that it’s all about and where you can’t argue vaguely about, whether it was that way and that it’s clearly heard. That's hard facts! I can tell you one thing: The impression in these minutes was that Mr. Moschitz was waiting for the best time, that is, until our Federal Partyman was in the bath of quantity, writing autographs, taking photos, standing right next to those, and then coming into the picture wonderfully with this unscrupulous sage. And it was. That's what I'm saying here again. What happened next? – The rulers have retreated to a local, Moschitz was very nervous. These are all clear statements that have also been made for the best of the testimony. That's not what we've invented either. And Moschitz pleaded, so to speak, that they should be on his side so that he might come out of this matter. That was really very plump and stupid how this ORF editor has done. You have to say that. Finally, it must be noted that the methods are that this was staged by the ORF. This can be done by our party – as everyone has to understand – but also by our democratic civilized society. If we are already there, we really need to look at some figures in the light of this scandal, which may draw strips. I would like to mention a certain Pius Strobl. I recognize that the Green Group is very deep in the computer. They do not want to hear this: the former SPÖ employee, the Green-Federal Managing Director, who then came to the Foundation Council, then transferred from the ORF's control body to the employment relationship, i.e. from Controller of the ORF as the head of communication. That's where you have to say: I am not surprised that this Mr Strobl has turned out to cover and defend this scandal. At the end of the day, of course, one has to ask whether a political mission has not been given here. I personally and also from our group cannot imagine that this is a story that this Eduard Moschitz has turned his fingers on. We can't imagine that. That is to say, we have to look into the question of who has the political responsibility to bear here and who has perhaps even given the political mandate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last: We know these people were paid. That means it has to be budget-responsible somewhere. What is this budgetary responsibility? I think that Elmar Oberhauser, also an unnecessary figure in the area of the ORF, certainly has his fingers in the game. You have to put that in the room. In any case – and I come to the end of this – we must act quickly in order not to allow such methods to become permanent and not to harm our already disasterd democracy any more. I can guarantee you that our group will do everything it can to eliminate these machinations in the ORF - I say quite consciously - with the iron broom, because that is no longer reasonable for the fee payers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20261	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. 5 minutes speaking time. Total period of residence: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20283	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is an ORF law, there is a criminal law, and if there are any charges in the direction – and there is obviously – then that will be checked. That is quite natural. And if there are corresponding judgments, there will also be consequences. But one can't be: That the statement of two right skinheads affects a parliament for two hours so that pre-conceptions occur that Mr Stadler speaks of clear violations of the law before anyone else could justify himself. I'm sure that can't be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be the subject of our debate here that we are investigating criminal police, who was where and what said. That's not the subject at all. There is clearly a presumption of innocence, and the word “indebtedness ” is already suspicious in times like this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The payments have already been admitted! The payments have already been made!]] – No, there is something like a scientific null hypothesis. First of all, I assume that I have no reason at all to believe that any ORF editor wants anyone to go to the right corner. The FPÖ does this all the time. There's no need for an ORF editor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And the second is: I have no reason at all to believe that the FPÖ is deliberately launching this into the world. I have no reason to do that either. The same applies to the presumption of innocence. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But a strategy is already recognizable: It seems to me that you are looking for every opportunity to be somehow linked to the subject of National Socialism, best without becoming criminal. This is already a certain kind of pilgrimage procedure: two steps ahead, then apologise and so on, so one step back. That's called pilgrimage procedure. So here, I think, there is already a connection that should now also scratch on the independence of the ORF. And this is also a little in your direction, Mr Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have admitted that they have been paid!]] It's clear: We are totally opposed to any kind of manipulation, but we are also opposed to any kind of intimidation of independent editors by Parliament, by parties in this Parliament. It can't be either. Because if the ORF comes into the situation now that the editors may have to fear that sometime when they report on a party event of the FPÖ, perhaps they will really be called somewhere “Sieg Heil!” and then no one dares to film it anymore, because it may have been manipulated, it can’t be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Why doesn't that happen to any other party? Why is that always happening to you? It's kind of weird, too. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Imagine that we would complain because, at any election event, anyone would have been stopped by us to scan national socialist sayings. Everyone would say right away: Such a fool! Can't be! – This kind of thing can only be checked with you anyway. We can't do that at all. But that has nothing to do with being absolutely against any kind of manipulation. But there's always been a reason, and there's nothing to do with affidavits and to get back with innocence. These are statements by Mrs Rosenkranz, by Mr Strache, by Mr Graf and so on. That's the same thing again and again. [[Call to the FPÖ: What does the woman Rosary have to do with the ORF? Can you explain that to me?]] Whoever waddles like a duck, who looks like a duck, and whoever is so wet, can also be a duck, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20376	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20397	High house! It is very striking, as the Green Group expresses, to defend the incidents and also the editor, who has clearly violated the ORF law, against which political ethos, immediately, and to condemn all the others. It is not in vain that there are two hours of discussion here today about the so-called independence of the ORF. And Mr Stadler has very impressively stated here that this is not an individual case. It's not about the two skinheads and the statements of these skinheads, it's about the facts – and it's about a system that's run by the ORF and that's not an individual case. A question here, in addition to a complete investigation, for which, with the exception of the Greens, all the political groups have actually spoken: Who is behind this editor? Who is behind this system? Because you can't explain to me here that a small editor of a editorial staff is expressing himself, paying provocateurs, asking for ORF cars – there is a lengthy procedure, for those who have perhaps worked in the ORF – to travel with these ORF cars, without a superior, without having known and had knowledge of a higher position – up to Mr Strobl, who is very close to the Greens. You can't tell me that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is not a single case of what happened to the FPÖ. The ÖVP has already recognized: Today it is the liberals, the last time in Ebensee it was the So cial Democrats to whom one has put it, not the socialist youth, the Red Falks, as we have learned today. And next time, someone else from the political spectrum meets. It is therefore so important that we debate this system in detail today. But we would have expected more of you, Mr State Secretary, and this would have been a good thing for you today to go out here and say: Yes, I am acting on a complete explanation of these accusations and facts! – But you didn’t do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, you have made the ORF the wall instead of providing a complete investigation in the interests of democracy, in the interests of politics and, I say, also in the interest of the ORF. It would be good for the ORF to really bring light into this unscrupulous causa and into the serious accusations. But what's the ORF doing? – First, a tape without audio recording is passed on. This is not for the Enlightenment! Then sound tracks are manipulated, deleted. Then transfers from the high house are turned off. Suddenly, the server fails. What a coincidence! Probably so many people have accessed the Internet because they simply don't believe in the objectivity of reporting and the comments of ORF journalists today. But it's going on. Instead of clarifying – also in your own interest, in the interests of independence, political ethos – the ORF goes much further: He offers, as we can see from the APA, now defenders from the media scene, a so-called scientist. A scientist strengthens the ORF's back. He says – quote –: The things the ORF has done in the report are common. Are common, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Strache: This is the usual method! A dangerous threat!]] This is a dangerous threat, and this is actually, namely, that it is obviously, also confirmed by Mr Hausjell, in the ORF, that one pays provocateurs that one manipulates contributions that turn dissidents into the wrong light. Throughout Europe, every broadcaster sees this differently. With our neighbours in Bavaria, surveyed about the incidents in Austria, where there are only headaches, the speaker of Bavarian radio observes: “In the context of a reportage to bring people from A to B, and to pay money as well, that’s “not usual” in Germany. Mr State Secretary, ensure that in the independent ORF, in the interests of independence, including the media scene in Austria, such incidents are stopped immediately and immediately a complete clarification of these serious accusations is made! [[Abg. Strache: That he will eventually become independent again!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20462	Mrs Silhavy referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20487	Thank you, Mr President. – In his speech, Mr Vilimsky once again claimed that orders from the President’s office would have been given to an ORF editor. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Are you too!]] I'll put it right: This claim is incorrect, as has been presented several times in the house. The President was asked for an opinion. Secondly, It is precisely for this reason that a complaint against the FPÖ club is pending for gross reluctance. And thirdly, The FPÖ was never the case throughout the e-mail, but of right-wing extremism, and it is very surprising that the FPÖ is so affected.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20526	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20548	Mr President. High house! In addition to the fact that no one has probably understood what Mrs Silhavy wanted to convey, but there is no reason to go further on this perception defect – I am allowed to see from the outset the likely insignificantness of her alleged statements – but it is very clear to me that it is a pity that Mr State Secretary has not taken the opportunity to make it clear that the government, the social democrats in the government, is not in the least interested in such events that we are debating today, to think cheap, to take on a favourable basis, but to withdraw from a formal point of view, with a certain Tremolo in the voice that is not really useful to you, that it is a unconstitutional request. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Grosz]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In fact, there is nothing other than the application: “The Federal Chancellor is invited to ensure within the scope of his possibilities...” – If you say: [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: Second sentence!]] I understand the request materially, but he can't do anything, then we could already debate, but you are boasting at our group, saying: This is unconstitutional. – That is not unconstitutional! [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: Second sentence!]] I continue to quote: “... ensure that the ORF manipulation scandal of Wr. New Town is being unexplained...” – I tell you Yes: “... and it is examined whether in similar cases it has been manipulated. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: Second sentence!]] It also has to ensure that the ORF fees are used in a legal manner.” Of course one can debate this, and if I had formulated it, I might have formulated it differently, but we have a research, good, active youth as speakers. They have written well that everyone understands – and today everyone has understood what has been debated about! I can tell you the following about the illegality of the Constitution: Point one: § 46 of the ORF Act holds the execution clause in the direction of the Federal Chancellor. So the Federal Chancellor and thus you as a competent, as the Secretary of the Media, are responsible for the execution! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second point: Not to be overlooked, § 36 para. 2 announces the right of application and appeal of the Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, Peter, that's wrong! Perform independence!]] It's good, thanks! In any case, however, it offers the possibility that the federal government, represented by the Federal Chancellor, will bring a complaint to the Federal Communications Senate. That is to say, you could take this case as an opportunity to complain at the Federal Communications Senate. Mr Stadler has already done the right thing: The whole thing has two legal levels. First: Complaint at the communication Senate. Secondly, the criminal dimension that stands next to this causa, which is going on anyway. [[Abg. Strache: And the internal review of the ORF, with consequences!]] From the criminal point of view, we have two levels: either instigation for re-activating or foreshadowing an act threatened with punishment – also a possibility. The fact that we do not have to call on justice to work here is self-evident, but we had good reason to ask the Federal Chancellor to take action within the framework of his possibilities. If he says he has no options, we have to take note of it, but the content of this call is not constitutional. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20658	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20680	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! In one case, I give the critics of the motion for a resolution, because it says: “The Federal Chancellor is invited to ensure in the context of his possibilities...” – When it comes to media, Mr. State Secretary... – I would be very pleased if the murmur was put a little behind me, because this is also disturbing during the speech. [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer speaks to Abg. Ablinger.]] Thank you. Mr State Secretary, I have referred to you, because when it comes to illegal media intervention, you are more likely to be the contact person. I remember an incident a few months ago: A State Secretary who instructs the Federal Chancellor's press officer to call the APA to remove an APA editor immediately because he has allowed himself to report critically about the Federal Government, that is unique in the history of the Republic. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unfortunately not!]] This moves like a red thread through your actions, this dealings with the media in Austria, which the SPÖ has mainly, but also the ÖVP. That should also be said, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] With this disdain, this non-existent respect, which you as political and party officers receive independent editors of this Republic, you can fill volumes. Mr Stadler has already pointed out an incident that has affected him today, and today we are discussing an incident that is unique in the history of the Republic: With public funds, perpetrators are brought to a crime scene so that they can carry out their actions and they can still be praised by a third party. That's what I'm asking myself, Mr. State Secretary: Which republic do we live in? What will the ORF do next? [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Next, will the ORF bring a drug-curer to an event of the BZÖ, in the Styrian country election campaign or wherever, there will be former drug-curers or drug-absorbed offenders then sent to me, who then put me into my coat bag in the wave, when you place autograph cards or something else, a small letterer – and the ORF is filming with me, and then at the end of the day I am a drug-dealer myself?- Oh, my God! Mr. State Secretary, where does that end? Where does this political cross-border crossing end, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, which you obviously guild and pardon and which the Greens almost wish for in this country? Where does that end? That is the question we have to ask ourselves today. Therefore, it is an act of democracy-political hygiene and also an act of democracy that we do not allow such a thing in public-law broadcasting, but also in all areas of public life. Political debate at any time. We focus on broadcasts and here in plenary very much. There are also political values that I am presenting as a BZÖ country chairman of the FPÖ, or the SPÖ or the Greens or the Austrian People's Party, but to approach people to incite people to criminal acts, to stage criminal acts so that they can be filmed with the ORF camera – and I am talking about the Prohibition Act – that is unique in the history of the Republic. Mr State Secretary, we are asking you to take action. I was shocked by your opinion here, how strange you have stood up here and said that it would be all right anyway, that belonged to the good sound, shaken how you handle it here. This is about as unreality as Mr Stöger's scandalous management of the list case that we will now come to the next item on the agenda. The fact that the Social Democratic Party of Austria is setting up the ORF, as it wishes, is clear to you on the basis of some examples. Last week, 4 days before the Styrian municipal council elections, the head of the Styrian state in the ORF “Report” gets a serviced appearance – based on intervention between Voves, Faymann and Ostermayer, already appointed a week before the ORF – so that Mr. Voves can present his proposal to halve the land days 4 days before the municipal election in the ORF, a 20-year-old proposal. Do you know why it was so treacherous? Because on Thursday before this appearance on Tuesday, Mr. Voves has already cancelled two events for this Tuesday in Styria, indicating that he has an ORF “Report” event on the evening. 5 days before he cancels the opening of the Diagonal in Graz for Tuesday in the evening and says further dates according to the motto: My friends in Vienna organized an appearance at the ORF because the “Krone” and the “Small Newspaper” do not write well about us in connection with the foundation. And now I have a deal with the Faymann, who's making the ORF neatly for us. Three days later he appears again in the ZIB2, again on the intervention of this Mr. State Secretary, who sits behind me, as the so-called Part of the Game: I – Voves – have some problems in the country election campaign, I promise you, I do not criticize the Federal Party, but please beautifully organize the ORF! The Party Chairperson of SPÖ and its officials shall be present in all of the ORF's consignments in that Republic. Or: Last week the ORF simply ignored a press conference of the BZÖ. He sent a team; the team also cost €1,000, and a contribution should be made to the "ZIB" lunch. The purpose of this press conference was to present this series of parliamentary questions on the government's representation and travel costs. I wonder why the whole day in the ORF is not reported, even though a team has been sent, which has cost at least 1 000, 2,000 €: Employees, camera, technicians, a ready-to-prepared post, and then arrive at 10 o'clock after a phone call with the editor of the ORF on the fact that there was apparently once again an intervention by the Federal Chancellery to cover up here. [[Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ]] Or if we look at the legendary appearances, the continued appearances of Mrs. Glavischnig. She gives a press conference almost three times, four times a week at 10.30 a.m., says her poem there, puts a few gooseflowers on the press conference tables – and then goes on: 1 p.m.- “ZIB”, 5 p.m.- “ZIB”, 7.30 p.m. “ZIB1”, 8 p.m. “ZIB-Newsflash”. She has always said the same thing for 2 years, always raising the same demand, a similar claim, sometimes with similar sentences – but she's going through. I also remember the performance in “We are emperors” two years ago, when “We are emperors”, this transmission format, was still completely politically free. First appearance: Eva Glavischnig. What happens if the last in the series of these Greens sends out any OTS message that doesn't interest any editorial? – The Greens are going through. Up to ‘in the centre’: For months we have been reading it in the programme preview in the daily newspapers: the entire Green Parliamentary Club may be there, every Sunday another one. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it doesn't use anything!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with democracy, but it has nothing to do with public broadcasting. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, your scream today to mutter about it – so if it didn't mean an order call, I might have said “hypocritical” now, but I don't. [[Call the ÖVP: But maybe only!]] - But maybe only. For years the ÖVP has executed the ORF with the Lindners and Mücks, the Moltofon has entered the history of this republic, there has never been such a brutal influence on the ORF as among you. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Who is responsible for the Wrabetz?]] – Your crocodile tears, your complaints that the SPÖ can now be better influenced, please nice, ladies and gentlemen, that is very obvious. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Who is responsible for the Wrabetz?]] I would therefore suggest that we find ourselves in the history of the Second Republic at last to ensure that the fee payer is satisfied in that this radio, this ORF, is finally exempt from all party political influences, that young editors can finally do what they have been engaged in, namely to guarantee objective, critical journalism, an interesting journalism that also makes the quotas rise. [[Abg. Head: Mr. Grosz, my tears are coming!]] Because, excuse me, if I look at the quotas of the ORF that have caused ÖVP and SPÖ, then I have to say, the Kasperl Theatre is better visited by us in Frauental in the Styria than by some ORF broadcasts, in which everyone only switches off more. That is why I say to you that it would also be of economic interest that we give the ORF more freedoms and finally free him from the party-political hostagery of the Eastermayers, and as they are all called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20813	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20834	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, if the Greens were really going through with the ORF, I would have nothing against it. If we could all act together on the “centre” show, I wouldn’t mind. But please keep your populist statements with yourself or in the Styria, that really has nothing to look for here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question asked here was: Where does the political crossing end? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] And the question is indeed right. [[Abg. Head: Where does it start?]] The fact is that, to date, functionalists of the FPÖ do not distance themselves from the requirement to at least partially loosen the Prohibition Act. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] The fact is that human rights to freedom of expression are completely misused here, and the fact is that the top-ranking candidate of the FPÖ in Wiener Neustadt – thus the connection with Wiener Neustadt – in 2008 called for – to Ö1, for everyone and anyone to listen to – will at least partially repeal the Prohibition Act. [[Abg. Head: This has nothing to do with the subject!]] And that is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. That's embarrassing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What happens if a party does not distance itself by a hundred percent? What happens at their events? – There are far-right actions. It is also necessary, regardless of whether the accusations made here are voting against the ORF or not, regardless of whether they happen. [[Abg. Weinzinger: I never saw you at such events!]] If you had been there, away from the stage of the Klubobmann Strache, away from the cameras, away from the journalists and journalists, you would have noticed. They had seen groups of mainly men screaming, laughing, dancing, jumping, and parole screaming. Nothing like “Heil Hitler” or what has been put into space there, I can confirm nothing of it. But I can confirm that young people have screamed away from the event: ‘Nazis forever’. [[Abg. Grosz: Those were members of the Greens, weren't they? These were your members, green alternatives!]] “Nazis forever”-Rufe in Wiener Neustadt, and that’s right-wing radical. This is a right-wing radical trend, and this must definitely be shown and prevented by all means. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more word on the actual correction. It always happens that there are actual corrections, but many actual corrections are often simply not correct, you have to say that too. It is not right, as Klubobmann Strache said, that the socialist youth and the Greens have applied for this demonstration, this rally. That's just de facto wrong and a lie, and he can't just make himself here and say the greens did it. That's wrong! In no case has it been, and I also ask for an excuse, because we have not signed it up. [[Abg. Strache: Was it illegal? She didn't sign up?]] Watch what you're saying! Watch what you're doing! Manipulate You never allow the awareness of democracy and the awareness of history, and never allow it! Finally distance yourself from right-wing radical thought!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20972	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Höbart. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e20996	Actual corrective action to women Member of the Windbüchler-Sushill: As you know, the only ones who ransacked were from your side because it...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21014	Mr Commissioner, put the matter in the room to be corrected. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21030	I'm correcting: The only Randaliers that night were left.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21057	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. Your group's remaining speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21080	Finally, I am glad that we have been able to show and clarify these causas today and also to explain the facts. It is disappointing that Green MEPs can only operate here with diffamation and untruth, and that under the protection of immunity. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I tell you for the hundredth time in all clarity: We do not have anything to do with left or right extremism, in contrast to you and Mr. Ollinger, who was present at illegal demonstrations, where cars and business portals were lit and 14 police officers were also injured. [[Oh, by the greens.]] That's the difference. There is no such thing at my events and will never be at my events. There will never be free people who interfere with other events or attack with eggs or stones or otherwise something dissident violent, as is the case at our events. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] At the end of the day, I'll hold: I am disappointed by Mr Ostermayer. I have the impression and the fear that behind such a word message, as he has given it, there could be a politically motivated system, which is not an exception that we have shown, but a method, politically motivated method, and one seems to continue to have something like this and does not want to turn it off. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] [[18:28]] [[18:28:28]] The vote will be taken at
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21141	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on 'ORF-manipulation scandal'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:28:56]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21180	We now come to the brief debate on the request made by Members Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, to the Health Committee for reporting on Mr Grosz's motion for a resolution ( 1014/A) by Mr Grosz, colleagues with regard to ministerial support in accordance with Art. 143 i.a. Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG a period of up to 20 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. I would draw attention to the time limits: no speaker longer than 5 minutes, first speaker 10 minutes, opinions by members of the government and by word of vote state secretaries no longer than 10 minutes. I call the applicant, Mr Grosz.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21210	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can now take a very short look at this debate, because it is strange: Today, we are putting forward this deadline proposal in order to finally discuss the food scandal in the Health Committee in order to deal with the ministerial appeal against Minister Stöger, and at exactly 9.36 a.m. – after it has become reckless that we will bring in the deadline proposal today – SPÖ and ÖVP were finally ready to join the Health Committee on 20 July. ==References== April, apologies; requested was the 20th, now it is the 14th. April – to discuss what Austria has been discussing since 14. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: 14. April!]] Mrs Oberhauser, and perhaps also Mr Maier. I was so excited about how you've been since 15. Mr Stöger made the wall on February of this year. All I've got on 15th and 17th. On February 14, he claimed how this scandal had developed, as Minister Stöger has concealed, since 14. ==References== February 2010, you – and I quote your OTS message – have referred to as a standard lie that is still valid. Now, Mrs Oberhauser, do you know the result of this so-called lie? – Eight dead, 30 severely ill. In the meantime, you should also be aware, ladies and gentlemen, and very much-honoured social democracy, which you have made to Mr Stöger in his motion for a distrust, that this minister, according to his own records and those of his ministry since 14. August 2009 It is known that we have a number of events in Austria due to one and the same Listerosis strain. Three cases, 14. August, across Austria, infection takes place in June and July – three cases, not in the family association, where perhaps wrong cooking has been done, no, three cases across Austria! And until October, Minister Stöger was unable to raise a crisis plan in his ministry. ==References== In October, a dead and eight serious diseases had to be reported when the Minister set up his first working group. ==References== ==References== December had to last for just under two months until the Minister started the first investigations by means of cashbons in order to protect the population from the cheese of Prolactal. It is not a Hartberg farm quargel, it is Dutch shipping milk, which has taken in Germany the wonderful metamorphosis to a pot, in order to then turn into a rural-agricultural natural product, namely the Hartberg farm quargel. ==References== In December, Minister Stöger refused to initiate the first investigations. Then one and a half months pass before he first informs the EU about the international, the Europe-wide warning system that we have – at that time – five deaths and 22 sufferers. The Minister was still not ready to inform the public. ==References====External links== He said in front of the Council of Ministers: I've only learned about it today, and since I've known about it, we've taken over crisis management. – That was Mr Stöger’s statement on 15 May. February. Then he tried to cover up in the next few days, but finally he had to admit that the AGES authority had already been in the 14th century. August knew and he knew by the negligence that he left it to the manufacturer to collect the products, caused us to report more deaths, namely those dead who were infected with the quargel after the recovery operation in January. There is therefore a direct link between the Minister, his actions and the deaths in Austria. Purpose, negligence, ignorance – whatever. But it is in the history of the Second Republic for the first time that a minister himself must be blamed that his lack of crisis management over six months, his ignorance and probably his disinterest – his disinterest – have caused people in Austria to get in danger. There's never been that before. I remember, above all, the older Members in this House who may have experienced the wine scandal, the political debate that has lasted for months and years, and the fact that at least in the causal, direct context there was no death victim at that time. At the wine scandal, the Republic is still. I think the Minister of Health called Steyrer who was shot by the sun, moon and stars. But there was no dead man to record. – Today, Mr Maier and Mrs Oberhauser do the wall against better knowledge Health Minister Stöger. What happens after we have made this scandal manifest? – A minister sluggishes and sluggishes the matter, along with his handcuffs in the AGES, ÖVP-Man Url as managing director and the party-political positioning Mr Herzog – also from the ÖVP, from the Rauch-Kallat office – who is head of the consumer health sector. What happens after we have revealed this abuse, this cover-up, this negligence? – Last week, the AGES commissioned the immediate withdrawal of telephone protocols from all its employees. Mr Maier, Data Protection Chairman – you are always so proud of this title, you say so; You have, I believe, a meter long business card on which you look at it every day, you are absolutely proud of it – you, as chairman of the Data Protection Commission, should read in your smart books whether it is okay that, with the agreement of the Works Councils, the personal e-mail folders of employees are opened and the telephone protocols of mobile phones, which also have a private share of use, are removed – at the request of this Mr. Url of the ÖVP and apparently with the knowledge of the Minister of Health – in order to get on with it, who has plundered after six months in the AGES – in order to say otherwise – no longer has prevented people from dying due to Mr. Stöger's political failure. You haven't responded to it until today. We have discussed the motion for a reluctance against Mr Stöger in your group, and there was still the point in your group that everything is all right anyway, anyway, everything so great and so great and why we are going to huddle up there at all. [[towards SPÖ]] We have finally tried to get the Minister into the committee by means of this ministerial contribution, in order to ask him once again, in the context of a current debate, but also in the debate on this ministerial note, about when he really knew something, because he will be asked by the judiciary anyway about what he has been doing. We would like to be able to ask him once more to draw on the political consequences; even some Members who are not yet convinced – many are already convinced – that he was a mis-occupied. Many Social Democratic Members and many employees, above all, encourage us to continue here. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] – Should I tell you the names, Mrs. Deputies? - You're welcome, no problem at all. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Here you go!]] There are many who want to get rid of this minister and also encourage us to continue here. We have said that we want this current debate in the Committee, we want to discuss the Prime Minister's name, and that was not possible. [[Call the ÖVP:Tell the names!]] I am mistakenly proud and also happy that we were alone with the request to hold a deadline debate today, without being able to force what was in the Committee on 14 May. April will become a reality, namely, another milestone in the reconnaissance of this largest food scandal in the history of Austria, which a minister of social democracy and his two black henchmen, who are apparently unable, will have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21302	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21324	Mr President. Mr Grosz, you mentioned the “Frauental Kasperltheater” several times. In the meantime I almost assume that the role of crocodile is very clearly occupied there, probably also with a large handkerchief, in order to be able to bring the crocodile tears there as well. It was really impressive. So the Frauental Kasperltheater will certainly be worth a trip, but only if I can really see you crying there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This speech here really consisted of such last-class ideas... [[Abg. Grosz: What is this performance? What's this show?]] Ladies and gentlemen Grosz, we have been punished today for having to experience the Styrian country election campaign through your presence here on this stage several times. [[Abg. Grosz: How do you discuss eight dead and 30 sick?]] You have just said that you can take a short look at your speech on this item on the agenda. I've had a little hope you'll be brief. You didn't take a short look, but you brought the whole show. Make the election campaign at home and leave us here, please, with it in peace! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we are discussing here is the request for a deadline. If you had been willing, you would have withdrawn this deadline proposal if it were for you to hold this debate in committee. Mail transport, which you mentioned today, starts on 17. March, on which we have sent out the proposals for an agenda. As a result, Dr. Weber replied with a request to include this item on the agenda of the ministerial anchorage. At the same time, she asked that we should include in the field of nutrition the application 631/A(E) school health programme. The only explanation is that it is in the teaching committee. Perhaps you should also teach your employees something where all the requests are located. [[Abg. Grosz: You're not allowed to do that! You're stupid!]] Then came a reply from us at 9.26 a.m., where it is on the agenda that the general debate on the lists requested by the FPÖ and will take an hour will be accompanied by the request for ministerial support. This was followed by Mrs Weber at 12:52 a.m.: Mrs. Colleague, for the BZÖ all right. In other words, you should have known that this deadline proposal basically goes into the air, so that you do nothing but take the opportunity to adapt a minister and try to make a political change with eight dead. I'll throw that in front of you, and I'll still put it before you. You said here that on 14 November. In August it became known that there are three strains, and that the infection and deaths occurred after notice of the source of the cause. – That's wrong! All diseases have been shown to occur before the clear identification of the causer. Mr Grosz, you probably remember the year 2002 when the question of salmonella disease became virulent. [[Call to the SPÖ: Love it is not!]] At that time there were 7 417 diseases and ten deaths. I have searched the APA reports again today and found that there was no warning and no statement from the then Minister's head and from you as a press speaker. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – Wait Wait a minute! And I don't blame you for that. [[Abg. Grosz: It wasn't a product!]] That's the way it is! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As soon as the product was detectable, the notification was made in accordance with the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, LMSVG, which was introduced in 2006. [[Abg. Grosz: This was in the family environment due to a hendl soup! Get in touch with yourself!]] By 2006 it was the Ministry and the Authority that had a reporting obligation in case of suspicion of a disease: Ministry or AGES. In the revision in January 2006 under the Federal Minister for Smoking Callat under the government of Blue/Orange, whatever the case at that time, the law was adapted to a directive of the EU, without the use of national scope, and has assigned the warning obligation only to the company. And only if the company does not report the obligation lies with the authority and the ministry. That is what you are accusing the Minister here, namely, breaking laws to accuse him at the Constitutional Court, is simply wrong. And I am not saying that you are getting the stage here to make political change with dead people for a regional election campaign!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21454	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21475	Mr President. High house! If Mr Grosz thinks that eight dead are suffering, then of course it is a very, very, very serious accusation. And I would like to approach the subject not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as a doctor, who could also face mistakes. First: Every dead person that happens in medical operations is probably a dead person too much, and we have to do everything we can to avoid that. This, as I mean, requires respect for the patient alone. But I do not believe that it is appropriate to call a minister “Mr Stäger” at the same time to accuse him of disinterest and intention, in order to say the same thing: What did he do? – In my opinion, this is already too deep from the choice of words. But you have to answer that yourself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now I'm telling you the second thing as a doctor: I work as a doctor for 25 years. In your request, you propose serious injury to the Minister with fatal outcome, with intention, please. Before writing a page – I have read it carefully – that the clinical picture of Listerosis is very variable, so the disease is not clinically sure: Abdominal pain and diarrhoea. I myself have probably five to ten cases of diarrhoea and abdominal pain every day in the ordination. It is simply not possible to investigate everyone, because until I have the diagnosis, it is usually healthy. You write yourself correctly: very difficult to determine. - First of all. Secondly, It's even more difficult – wait! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] – determine which germ it is. [[Abg. Grosz: I'll give you that right!]] I don't blame you now for not being a doctor, but there are hundreds of different germs, there are salmonellas, Shigellas, sausages. It is much more difficult to see where the germ came from. If, in this context, officials are said to cover up consciously, misuse or are unable to do so, I think this is a serious accusation. The Minister must put himself in a political discussion. But mentioning officials here and presenting them as incapable is, I believe, not fair. I have to say that I think every person deserves a certain amount of respect. Even if the Minister had called Grosz or the chief, your former provider: The Minister should have been Hellseer if he had been on the 15th. August, you've always been talking about, knew that it's lists and from where they come from. [[Abg. Grosz: That was the report from the Reference Institute!]] Please, listen to me! The minister should have been hell-seer if he had known where they came from. Lists can be found theoretically in all dairy products, all meat products. I believe – this is my personal assessment now, as you like to contradict me – it was quite a passable achievement that you found out exactly where that came from. We can now talk about what we can do even better in terms of declaration. This will be done in the law now. According to the law, the company is in principle responsible, and one will act on urgent suspicions and not only on the basis of official opinions. This too is a teaching, a meaningful teaching. But I also mean that where Austria is on it, Austria should also be in it. That's also an important thing. In my opinion – and I come back to the request – it is a very serious accusation to say to someone who is practically serious injury to the body with a fatal outcome. Okay, let's clear this up to the prosecutor's office, and she's here. If you have evidence, Mr. Grosz – you turn your back on me – then put them on the table, and the prosecutor's office should examine. Now, without knowledge of the precise procedures, Parliament is to decide on a ministerial basis. This is a very, very serious instrument, the most difficult we have. And I read that you should be assigned to represent the charges before the Constitutional Court. - I'm sorry, I can't go with that and my party can't go with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21537	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21558	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! We will vote in favour of this deadline. But I would also like to say the following: ==References== The last health committee was in December, and it was my group, which has engendered when, at last, health committees are taking place again. ==References== A health committee will take place on April 1st, and is not yet safe. It's not signed yet. So it was quite, very difficult to find an appointment at all. Mr Grosz, your group, too, was not necessarily one that announced great dates. You know, it was also your group, where it was very long and difficult to find an appointment at all. It was then the EIA, which did not want a current debate. So there's a lot of things going on where you have to ask yourself. That's all we're going to do at first is get an appointment. I hope that this date will be on the 14th. I am also very pleased that we have got the general debate on this list scandal on the agenda, because I believe it is important to talk about this case too. ==References== The Federal Minister was informed of the source. ==References== He has still not informed the public on February. I am saying that a Federal Minister and a government that spend so much money on advertisements could have afforded to turn an advertisement into the most important daily newspapers could have given a press conference. The Federal Minister didn't do all of this. ==References== ==References== February's a lot of time running out. At this time, and we know this today, people have proven to have been infected. In any case, this responsibility must be borne by the Federal Minister. We cannot release him from this responsibility either. He actually has to admit that. ==References== ==References====External links== The legal component must be clarified by the courts. To Members of the Government Party: But there is something like a political responsibility. And that's what the Federal Minister Stöger has to wear. He's the first instance. He can't always say that the company might have made a mistake or someone else, someone else made a mistake. For if it is so that only more officials bear responsibility for it, then we do away with the Federal Minister, then we make an official government! Then we don't need a minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I personally believe that it is the Federal Minister who needs to be here and who also has the duty to inform the population. Because one thing is quite clear: A company like Prolactal was not unknown at the time. In the autumn of last year, it had problems because of milk molds, as many trade chains have already cancelled the contract. And exactly this company is entrusted with crisis management by the Federal Minister! And then he obviously leans back and does not control what is happening there at all. This company is starting a half-hearted recovery operation that no human can get along with. There is nothing to read on the Ministry of Health's homepage. No human experiences anything in the public. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== February in the “Morgenjournal” and with no syllables mention that at last the cause of these treacherous infections has been found. I would have expected a Federal Minister to use these media appearances to inform the people and also to hold a press conference. That would be the task of a minister. On all other topics, there is always some minister on television with something he believes must now announce. But with such a delicate and important thing, there was silence. And he's silent to this day. That's what I've already accused the Federal Minister Stöger. Now, yesterday – and I say that quite openly – it was, of course, on pressure of opposition and on media pressure – a half-hearted government template in the Council of Ministers, which has not yet been placed online. We do not yet know exactly what will be in it. But it's a pretty half-hearted story, because it says again that the Minister has nothing to say again, that's what the AGES should do. who didn't do it now. In fact, this government template is null and void. There is a Federal Minister who is the supreme authority, and we also want him to be and remain. The Federal Minister therefore has the responsibility. He has, above all, the political responsibility from which we will not release him. Legal responsibility will have to be clarified by the courts. We do not have to judge this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21634	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21655	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors here in the house! It is a matter for everyone. The food concerns all of us. The issue of nutrition is really an extremely political one. That's why it's so bad, Mr Grosz, that with your kind of argumentation you are actually harming the matter. That's sad. In part, in your paper, in this long request, there are some arguments that you should examine more closely and which you also need to look at. But to present here a ministerial contribution, to bet here and to pursue policy with these really sad fates here, is a way that we must not support, which must not enter this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That must not break in, Mr Neubauer! If we were just to stick to the matter, it would have been right if Mr Grosz could also argue for political reasons that food control in the Styria has failed, the dosage of the food organs and the number of food controls in the Styria are far too small. The number of controls has also not been fulfilled. That would be a concrete criticism. There is a need to see where the causes of the middle federal administration are really the causes, namely the financing of the Austrian food control bodies and the implementation in the individual federal states. This would have been a concrete and politically correct approach. But from our point of view, you have to say one thing: What legitimate criticism can be criticised is that this severity of the control system and the waste saving of the organs poses a health risk. That's a topic. During the next budgetary negotiations – and as Minister Stöger is very well responsible for this – this issue will also be dealt with in a very substantial way. The second is that the labelling system in the current form opens up a tendency, as it were, to the possibility of fraud. The Hartberger Farmer's Quargel is undoubtedly a scam because every consumer assumes that a Hartberger farmer's quargel is produced from Austrian or mainly from regional milk. For me, by the way, this is one of the completely unverified things, as it is at all possible that a company based in the middle of the Styria dairy products imported into such a high quantity and that can be profitable, and that in a country like Austria, which has so much milk. We clearly have more milk than we consume, we export dairy products. I would also like to analyse this question. It would be very interesting what might appear suddenly on open topics. That's certainly a point, too. In short, the financial abuse of food control: In 2009, the AGES made a minimum of € 1 million, definitely a negative conclusion. And in the preview the AGES, the board of directors was said to be €18 million, which is missing. I got this. If you don't believe it: Here is the overview of the AGES, here is the own financial plan. In this financial plan, the AGES speaks of € 18 million. That is the real political problem. This is about the future of food quality and food safety. There will be a question of how Minister Stöger will deal with this, as Minister Berlakovich, who is also responsible for the AGES, will deal with how the Federal Government will enable the long-term security of this institution. One thing, perhaps, on the question: Did Minister Stöger see anything or did the government groups see anything? – I would say, in part, yes. We agree that a small part of the proposal that we agreed together in the last plenary session – Mr Maier smiles, it was also his request that was made here – has now been implemented in the presentation of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, no question, namely the annual food safety report. That's right, too. I expect, Mr Maier, that we will really discuss it here every year. This is a new quality, a positive decision to make. Good thing it's gonna be that way. We'll see what else we'll discuss if the template is really on the Internet. There are some points that are open to this request – the designation of origin, a very central point, ladies and gentlemen. This will move us further, because consumer deception must not have a system. Where Austria insists, Austria should and must also be in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21712	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21734	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Listeria scandal is daily in the media, is discussed daily by the population. Eight dead by eating food contaminated with lists and no warning from the competent authorities excite the moods. It is still not understandable to me that only by the initiative of the BZÖ, which has revealed this scandal, the Minister has become active. And then another gentleman comes from the ministry and says, It all happened, it all happened, we responded in time. - And that after eight dead! Finally, the Council of Ministers then adopts a legislative amendment to allow the Minister, inter alia, to warn the people of a danger in good time. – Please, where is it written that, if danger is in default, one should not warn the population or even have to? I almost think it should be more of a support to be able to stand up against industry and to withstand the pressure of industry. But let's come back to the Listeria infection. The Listeria infections are certainly favoured by the evasion of the excellent Austrian hygiene regulations. By 2004, there was absolute zero tolerance for lists in both operation and trade in Austria. The European Food Safety Agency's opinion on the amendment of these provisions was that a maximum of 100 germs per gram of the product may be present. You need to know, a listery takes about one and a half hours to multiply by cell division. It then potentifies itself, and you can calculate the period during which the food is completely contaminated. [[Abg. Großruck: It's up to the host!]] – Yes, raw milk, cheese, meat. We are now talking about cheese, Mr Grossruck, not fish. Only mentioned by the following: For salmonella, this provision was also softened. This applies to 20 germs per gram. But the salmonella increases within 20 minutes. But that also shows, I think, how difficult the EU is: The increase in this tolerance limit allowed the pressure of the States using raw milk for cheese production. At the top is France. This evasion of the relevant provisions is a dangerous, yes, fatal, as is shown and as the current case proves, since, with all the emphasis of doctors, it has been found that elderly people are also a highly dangerous risk group within this tolerance area. We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution to restore the absolute zero tolerance for food lists. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister for Health is unable to protect people, it is up to us to create the best possible conditions for protecting people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21772	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Members Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, to the Health Committee for reporting on Mr Grosz's motion for a resolution 1014/A, ladies and gentlemen, concerning ministerial support in accordance with Rule 143, in conjunction with Rule 142. 2 lit. b The Federal Constitutional Act is a term of up to 20 years. ==References== If you are in favour of the deadline request, I would ask for a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:04:17]] The continuation of the agenda President Fritz Neugebauer: We shall resume the negotiations on points 2 to 5 of the agenda. Mr Schüssel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21834	High house! Minister! We have prepared a five-party proposal that provides a world without a nuclear threat, and that, I believe, is a very important issue because there are very many strategic analysts who see the nuclear issues as one of the biggest threats currently facing the world. If you read – a small book tip – this highly interesting and exciting biography about Mao by Jon Halliday and Jung Chang, a former Rotgardistin, will There you will find stunning information about how the world has already stood on the verge of a nuclear conflict, in the year of the Korean war crisis, for example, as Mao tried everything to come, for example, to the Russian nuclear technology – and the whole is almost stretching a bow to today's question of North Korea and Iran. There were some hopes with Barack Obama's last year's speech in Prague when he declared there that he reaffirmed the American commitment, peace and security in a world without nuclear weapons. On the other hand, there were earlier initiatives by Kissinger, bySam Nunn, by Genscher, by Weizsäcker, by Helmut Schmidt, who also supported this line massively. And with this joint request by all the political parties, we want to encourage that we continue along this path. In the meantime, however, there are quite skeptical elements and skeptical developments. You're almost on a retro course. The START Treaty ended about December last year. The follow-up negotiations, which must be conducted mainly by the Russians and Americans, because they still have the overwhelming proportion of nuclear warheads in their weapons arsenals, and even if Barack Obama agreed with Medvedev and Putin: I only recall the humiliation experienced by Bill Clinton in 1999, when the Senate virtually blocked the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, the CTBTO Treaty, and thus the American President was bombarded in the public. There is a world summit on nuclear issues in April, which will not be insignificant and will, of course, highlight this whole range of topics, from the defense of missiles to the issue of disarmament. The eighth meeting of the NPT Treaty, which includes the non-proliferation of nuclear material, will take place in May. We are very concerned because the IAEA is very carefully reviewing these questions and is monitoring them every day. The number of reported incidents, the Reported Incidents, has doubled over the last three years, to about 500 incidents reported. What is not reported on nuclear material transports is, as it were, on another sheet. We know that the IAEA is currently practically only one third of all nuclear reactors checked regularly; two thirds of the reactors have not been checked. And we also know that about 50 countries are interested in nuclear technology. We fear, of course, that this will also increase the risk of having nuclear weapons technology. Today, there are seven to eight nuclear powers that own and dominate this technology, and in the next few years, with a doubling, about the number of nuclear power stations, it could also be a doubling of the number of nuclear powers in hand. And that would be a particularly worrying development. How difficult this is is a small report from the “Washington Post” shows, I think, one or two weeks. The Pakistani father of the atomic bomb, Abdul Kadir Khan, was mentioned, who is known not only to have built up nuclear technology in Pakistan, but is suspected that he has practically passed on his knowledge to Iran, Libya, to various other countries; he has also approached Saddam Hussein. The interesting: Khan was under house arrest, and a few days before a court in Islamabad lifted this house arrest, it became known that Abdul Kadir Khan passed on drawings that he passed on material for uranium enrichment plants and at the same time passed on a whole list of company contacts, how to deal with such things as how to come to these suppliers. The whole issue is therefore unheard of, very difficult and very dangerous. And I am actually very proud of the fact that we have jointly made a request to support a world without nuclear weapons. Once upon a time, it was very close to the fact that, by the International Court of Justice in 1996, it unanimously made clear findings against the use and threat of nuclear weapons. The interesting thing was that the vote, whether to use nuclear weapons in self-defense, has taken place 7 : 7 – and only the IGH President has with his The vote is then decidedly and dirimates that this point finally fell out. Otherwise, at the request of the UN General Assembly, we would have had a complete condemnation of nuclear technology, nuclear weapons technology, the threat of the use of such nuclear weapons. This is already an issue that is also of international importance, and it is, I believe, a good sign and a signal that the Austrian National Council is preparing itself for this support.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21915	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21936	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, I'm gonna join him. It is gratifying that all the parties represented in Parliament are drawing a line and talking with one voice in a way when it comes to an atomic world. One can certainly put hope in the Review Conference of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, because civil society as well as politics have long been so convinced that concrete steps must be taken towards nuclear disarmament. It is also true at the time, 65 years after the devastating discard of the nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and there is a very chance, now that for the first time a US president has put the vision of a nuclear-free world into space from Washington. That has never been the case so far. We all know that it is still a further and clumsy way to remove this “arsenal of terror, ” as it is also referred to. But what can be the solution? – Ladies and gentlemen, the only alternative to an uninhibited atomic match can only be a world without nuclear weapons. It is important that Austria enters the various bodies, takes a position, connects itself and aims at legally binding disarmament instruments, because only a truly broad consensus on nuclear disarmament will help to ensure that the review conference in May in New York also achieves its goal of ensuring effective strengthening of the non-proliferation treaty. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has already recorded with his five-point plan ways that we, the different nations, can and must support. The development of a comprehensive nuclear weapons convention, which declares the development, testing, production, possession and use of nuclear weapons illegal, would be an important and central step. That is why I am pleased and I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this request and I would ask the Minister to make a firm commitment to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e21983	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22004	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is truly gratifying that in this important and sensitive thing there is a five-party union and everyone pull on one strand. It is, of course, not important in the world political context when we move on to a line. It is also not important for Belgium or Luxembourg to join us, but it would be important I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Despite President Obama's happy statement last year, I now see little signal in the direction of real nuclear disarmament. The U.S. has about 50 percent of all global nuclear missiles. Not only in their territory, but also in the immediate vicinity of the Austrian territory, for example in Bavaria, are large nuclear weapons located – I don't want to know who. But this is certainly not a step that makes us hope that there will be real disarmament. There can only be a credible prevention of spread if those who have the weapons undertake not to threaten or use these weapons, and according to this decision, they also – at least in the medium term – also eliminate them. But there's nothing to do with that. The nuclear powers have not even agreed to give up any threat or use of these weapons, especially not the US. It is also certainly necessary that we insist that the powers be treated equally, for equal treatment and justice are very important if we are to enforce something moral and legal. And then again I call States like Israel, because it is so obvious that all international organizations, along with all controls, build a huge nuclear weapons potential. There are 200 to 250 or 280 warheads in Dimona – we do not know exactly. Israel is the third or fourth largest nuclear power, and it will not be enough if we continue to penalize neighboring states of Israel and threaten them and call on them to stop civil nuclear technology or to impose international control if we do not even mention such a offender of international conventions. My final request to the Federal Government is to exercise an eye on this and really to look at things in a holistic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22049	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22071	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In essence, I can follow the remarks made by my previous speaker/president. I'll just repeat: Why now? There is, hopefully, a time window for such initiatives: first, through the speech by President Obama a year ago in Prague, second by the United Nations Security Council meeting in September 2009, chaired by President Obama, where President Heinz Fischer also spoke, with the resolution 1887, which calls for, among other things, greater efforts against the spread of nuclear weapons, thirdly by the ongoing START II negotiations between the United States and Russia to reduce so-called offensive weapons, fourthly through the summit on nuclear security which will take place in Washington in April, and fifth and lastly, all of this, in the context of the five-point plan of Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, which was presented in October 2008 and which places the greatest emphasis on the creation of either a new convention on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons or on total disarmament or a series of instruments with the appropriate means of control, because the transparency of this area is a major problem. Why Austria? – I am not quite as modest as my colleague, Mrs Hübner. It is already a good thing that Austria, in particular, is trying to achieve this kind of initiative. I'll get it. Austria is a member of the Security Council until the end of this year. Austria has ratified or is a member of the relevant organisations. Austria, I believe, has made a good name for itself through the initiatives and successes in the field of bans on clusters and anti-personnel mines. Finally, Austria is also the seat not only of the International Atomic Energy Agency, but also of the CTBTO. Together with the traditional anti-nuclear and anti-atomic settings in Austria, I think we would be well advised to continue taking the initiative, and I wish you, Mr Foreign Minister, good luck in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22110	Mr Spindelegger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22131	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say very briefly that this issue – world without nuclear weapons – is quite one that we also need to move forward. I strongly support the fact that the National Council today wishes to confirm in a resolution what we, as the Federal Government, already understand last year, but also this year as part of our programme. We want to support the fact that we also call on the partners, especially the United States, to join this nuclear test stop contract. This is an essential point so that this Treaty can enter into force at last and we also have a corresponding approach to it. Secondly, the initiative of President Obama also made progress. The START negotiations, which are being held with Russia and which are now coming to their end, are proof that weapons potentials are also being reduced in the nuclear weapons sector. Thirdly, at the beginning of May in New York, at the NPT revision conference, I will put our position on the table again. We also need new contracts with regard to the dissemination of fissile material. We have proposed this and we also have experience in this area. Just think of what we've done with regard to cluster ionization and mine ban. That's why I think: This is a round thing, we will continue to support it. I am looking forward to a decision-making today in the National Council, which confirms this line and calls on us to continue to be active in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22165	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22186	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I also feel that there is no wrong modesty in the international positioning and work of Austria. I would therefore like to say a few words about international security policy. We have also discussed this in the Committee on Foreign Policy. There is also an interesting time factor in progress. We are now a member of the UN Security Council, and, under the Lisbon Treaty, the changes to the reorganisation of European foreign policy will be implemented in one piece at a time. And Austria should again be more involved with security policy issues. In the case of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court I also take today's decision-making as an invitation to ourselves to do so again. In particular, it is about international peace missions, because Austria does not have its reputation internationally without reason. We have so far proved ourselves to be a reliable partner of the United Nations. In my opinion, the time is now ripe for a further step in the peacekeeping missions. I very much support what Mr Foreign Minister has already announced in several public statements, namely that Austria is looking forward to sending an Austrian unity to Lebanon, in the South Lebanon to UNIFIL. I expect an appropriate government decision to do so as soon as possible. The Hoge Haus will naturally have to deal with this issue, but first of all we need a decision by the Austrian Federal Government. Another issue in this context – also mentioned in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – is the Security Doctrine. There are several rumors from different corners about the state of preparation. I believe that the experience that we have gained in this area, but also the new challenges ahead of us, should be scrupulous and should also evaluate partnerships that have proved to be very successful in the past. I am thinking, for example, of the NATO ‘Partnership for Peace’, which in Kosovo has enabled us to participate in a cooperation supported by all the political groups in this House. Let me also say a word of information on an issue that also concerns international security policy: It is about UN resolution 1325. Work is under way to appreciate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of this Security Council resolution. There is an interesting process at the UN level, which is now concerned with the development of indicators. Austria is leading with it. Indicators for what? – That the perceptibility and verifiability of progress made by individual states in this area – UN resolution 1325, women and peacebuilding – can also be assessed accordingly, that one is just taking a step towards implementation verifiability. I am very much in favour of Austria's continued leadership in this area, and I am also very sure that the Minister of State will have an eye on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22231	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22253	Mr President. Foreign Minister! High house! I see today’s decision, this five-party proposal “For a World Without Nuclear Weapons” throughout a great tradition of active Austrian foreign policy in connection with the anti-Atom positioning of Austria, but also in the tradition of the Austrian peace movement and as a signal of support for the initiatives of UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to develop an international nuclear weapons convention. From the beginning of the nuclear age in July 1945 to today, the number of states with nuclear weapons has increased immensely. Nuclear tests and the concern that nuclear explosives come into possession of terrorist organisations are constantly increasing. In addition, the world structure has changed fundamentally in recent decades. The doctrine of “peaceful coexistence” between the superpowers, the bipolari The cold war has turned out to be a multipolar world order. At the latest since the end of the Cold War 20 years ago, we were invited to think about a new actionable world internal policy. I believe that the dogma of the balance of terror should finally be a balance of trust over decades. I do not want to address in detail the questions of disarmament that have already been raised by my colleagues, Mr Schüssel and Mr Muttonen, but it is the fact that there are still the 28 000 nuclear explosives that can destroy the existence of humanity several times. On the other hand – this would be a concern to me in today's debate and also in future foreign policy – the world community, especially as regards disaster aid, often appears to be more helpless. I am referring, for example, to the recent earthquake disasters in Haiti and Chile. While weapons of extermination start in seconds, the organization of relief supplies often takes days and weeks. While aircraft carriers are constantly crossing the oceans, the only medical relief ship needs weeks to get into the lake. In the event of an emergency, humanitarian aid needs to be labored at a time when the aircraft is flying around the world. I see it as a humanitarian task for the world community to rethink in principle in terms of military upgrade. Instead of waging wars, it is to serve people. A first step should be to use the military structures in the event of an emergency, in the event of a disaster, useful and efficient for human aid. I make this comment from deep personal concern without wanting to reduce the achievements of the helping states, the Red Cross and many NGOs who are very active in the disaster aid. However, I believe that rethinking in the area of the international disaster relief strategy is long overdue. I would be pleased if Austrian foreign policy would put together new accents in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22301	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22322	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discards of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki on 6th and 9th. August 1945 by American B-29 bombers have fundamentally changed our world. For the first time in the history of mankind, 20 000 Japanese were killed in Hiroshima alone in just a few seconds, another 50,000 died until the end of the year from the consequences of the attack and tens of thousands more people from subsequent diseases. “Little Boy” and “Fat Man”, as the bombs were called by the Americans, ended World War II in the truest sense of the word lightning-like. Since then, human rightsists and historians from different countries and from different positions have disputed whether these rejections were responsible for international law, ethics and politics. Significantly, even the commander-in-chief of the American armed forces Dwight D. Eisenhower and the well-known American general MacArthur did not call the use of nuclear weapons useful and not necessary at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, even the use of nuclear weapons in our time is not acceptable, is morally unacceptable, and we therefore welcome any initiative that makes our world completely nuclear-free. We also know, however, that those who pursue this goal – and these are not just the representatives of small or medium-sized countries – but not at the same time those who have the power to enforce an absolute nuclear ceasefire throughout the world. Ideal for such a world without nuclear weapons, but we know that in addition to the official nuclear powers – the USA, Russia, Great Britain, France and the People's Republic of China – there are also other states that have a considerable nuclear arsenal: Israel, India, Pakistan or the People's Republic of North Korea. And these states are not thinking of subjecting themselves to any control. Nuclear weapons are also becoming increasingly technologically advanced, becoming smaller and therefore more dangerous. We liberals – I have already said that – support this initiative out of conviction, because, while there have been arms spirals again and again, a nuclear war for our earth would be the most dangerous form of military conflict.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22386	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22407	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We shall also adopt three amendments to agreements under these summary agenda items. One is the Convention on the European Centre for medium-term weather forecast; the other is about the safety of maritime transport and the safety of fixed platforms located on the mainland base. First of all, I should like to say that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, since I was the rapporteur here through the Print Error Correction, I do not speak in plenary, but I am concerned to say that this agreement is important because it makes it easier to include new members and because good and broad meteorological cooperation is important especially in times of climate change – that is because weather anomalies are more common in these times. In addition, this centre has contributed significantly to better weather forecasting in recent years, thus bringing protection to life and goods. It is therefore absolutely useful to further develop this institution. With regard to the two other conventions, it is a question of addressing terrorist threats more effectively. This is to be achieved by extending the list of criminal offences, by establishing new offences and by improving control in international waters accordingly. We by the ÖVP will be happy to agree to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22440	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22462	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Plassnik pointed out that it is an important security aspect for Austria to adopt this joint initiative today. Of course, we, too, are happy to join this initiative. However, we also have to add an additional aspect to the nuclear question, namely that we want to extend this security policy aspect to the so-called peaceful use of nuclear energy. We have discussed this in detail in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection last week. At the time, our request was cancelled by Mr Plessl, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber, with the explanatory statement – and I would like to state this clearly here – that the request for a postponement must be made because there are still legal issues that still need to be clarified as to what the exit from EURATOM has to do. In the meantime, however, the events have almost been overlooked, because we are now aware that the legal questions could already be resolved by experts. I therefore propose, on behalf of my group, that: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for your support for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I would like to justify this request because the question of whether, from an Austrian point of view, the EURATOM Treaty can be unilaterally announced is supported by four opinions. University professor Dr. Bernhard Wegener of the Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg has clearly pointed out in his opinion that the contract must be regarded as a classic example of one of its nature according to a contract that can be announced. University professor Dr. Michael Geistlinger of the University of Salzburg has stated in his opinion that according to international law, according to Article 56 of the Vienna Convention, there is a right to unilateral withdrawal from the EURATOM Treaty. – So it is also scientifically established that the position of freedom is clearly confirmed. University professor Dr. Manfred Rotter of Johannes Kepler University Linz, in his opinion, has later found that a procedure, legally ordered in accordance with Article 59, does not extend to the EAG remaining as an independent organisation, i.e. the EURATOM Treaty. Finally, yesterday, all parliamentarians received this brochure, a brochure of the Austrian Institute for European and Security Policy. [[Keeping the above brochure in height]] In it, the outstanding international lawist, University Professor Dr. Waldemar Hummer, Ordinarius of the University of Innsbruck, stated that for the first time – and that is what I have already found in the Committee – the possibility of withdrawal from EURATOM has been clarified also in the light of the Lisbon Treaty and the attached protocol. Ladies and gentlemen! Four independent experts from each other, university professors, have found that the withdrawal from the EURATOM Treaty is possible regardless of leaving the European Union. That's why I'm trying to rethink your position. Give these positions of key professionals a new impetus here! Support You get this exit from the EURATOM Treaty, because it costs Austria about €100 million a year! [[Abg. Dr. Plassnik: I can't do that!]] Finally, I would like to say to you: The ÖVP may rethink the appointment of Mr. Dr. Schüssel as Supervisory Board for the RWE Group. They provide a bear service to the entire anti-atomic policy of Austria when this goes on. Otherwise, in Austria, we will not be credible in the anti-atomic policy if a member of this House enters a fundamental consensus on nuclear policy through such an order with feet.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22530	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22600	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22621	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Neubauer, we have had the present proposal on the agenda several times, and we have already rejected it several times. On the one hand, from our point of view, even with scientific advice, it is not possible to get out of the Treaty. But I also say quite honestly: We don't want to get out of EURATOM either. [[Abg. Neubauer:... dangerous!]] I do not want to, because as a nuclear opponent, I believe that it is very good between loud countries using nuclear energy, which partly have nuclear bombs, if a small country, a neutral country like Austria, which does not produce nuclear energy, within EURATOM, has an eye on the safety of nuclear research, nuclear development and the safety of the entire nuclear development in Europe. I want to know, too, and to know all this, I have to be there. For this reason, I believe that Austria in particular has a very central task and position here. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why do you delay?]] That is why we should continue to exercise this responsibility with our position, which is quite different from that of many European countries. Apart from this, an agreement is also on the agenda today, namely the Protocol amending the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecast and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecast. Some of the titles of the agreements and agenda items are rather funny today, but they are also under negotiation, and I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to support these and similar initiatives even more massively than before. It is, as Clinton said, what counts for Europe in the future: “It’s the economy, stupid!” So we will have to see how we get out of this financial and economic crisis together. There is a cooperation in the fields of science and research, an improvement in knowledge, for example in medium-term weather forecast – central to agriculture, to many industries and economies and to Europe in leading research positions – incredibly important that we in Europe as a whole also find another data management. This is where the Scandinavian states are pioneers by not simply allowing state-based data to slumber at a “data cemetery”, but by means of dynamic interfaces of the economy for the development of applications or for the development of products. Overall, this has not yet been seen in Europe and also in Austria. That is why I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to help with the economic potential of young and new companies in Europe and to ensure that not personal data in Austria, but also in Europe, can be returned and used to the population, instead of slumbering on public “data-screets”. I believe that this would bring a very important impetus in the area where 30 percent of European growth is already coming from, and that would be a very important initiative. The weather data could take a first step. I will make requests on this subject and hope that this will also be the case at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22677	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22698	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. My two club colleagues Glaser and Hakl have responded to the individual points and have explained them, so it is unnecessary that I do the same. I would rather, Mr Neubauer – where is he? – to respond to two enlightenments from you. The first enlightenment was that you could still gain something positive from the Lisbon Treaty, namely the possibility of getting out of EURATOM. So he can't be that bad from the point of view of the liberals! You can only be glad that, apart from the liberals, we all voted in favour of it here in the House at the time. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The second point: That's why I'm asking for your understanding and thinking. You said that the ÖVP should ensure that German Chancellors do not accept posts of the Supervisory Board at RWE except Dr Wolfgang Schüsselden. First of all, this has nothing to do with the ÖVP at all. We have neither an influence nor anything else, but the RWE has come to Dr. Schüssel because it is a competent and excellent politician. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I'm asking you, colleague Neubauer: Has it failed if an atomic lobbyist is in the Supervisory Board at RWE – or a declared nuclear opponent like Dr. Schüssel? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – It is much preferable for me to have someone inside, who is also permanently opposed to the atomic lobby position there. In this respect, RWE's decision is an excellent one from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are taking a unanimous decision today. Anything else would be unusual if not all parties were against nuclear weapons. I'm just pointing out that this is a start. We know how it was with the anti-personnel mines, the scatter mines, there we were pioneers, there we were also pilvered around and said: get away with it! I think it is up to us now to constantly insist on it and to determine whether it is international conferences, where we report on this item on the agenda, or whether it is the government that points out that nuclear weapons are not supposed to have a place in the world. It'll be difficult. It will not be today, it will not be tomorrow, but at some point we will probably sit inside and rejoice that this initiative has also been adopted by many others. That's what we know: Steady drop hollows the stone, and tenacity, I think, will also bring success. Dear Minister of State, I am entirely with you when it comes to what you said this morning: of course, the representations of the European Union, the new Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should also be consular. This also gives them much more approval and much more acceptance among the population. It can't be that in any country where, as you said, an Austrian aid needs, if we don't have a message there, The EU Ambassador, who is there, says: I don't care, I'm not responsible for that. Therefore, you have complete support from us for this initiative also from you. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: Federal Presidential elections stand at the door, the launch of the FPÖ was something skinned, you can say already. That's why I end up with a four-liner: I advise’ Mr. Strache, who is in distress, pray a rosary, to read to Barbara the Levites – and to forget the elections. That's, I think, the best thing you can do.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22812	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Foreign Policy Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty - Protocol of 2005 to the 2005 Protocol to combat illegal acts against the security of fixed platforms located on the mainland base, 582 of the supplements - in accordance with Article 50 para. 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever gives the consent, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this Treaty should be made known by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the request of the Foreign Policy Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force – Protocol of 2005 to the 2005 Convention on the Control of Unlawful Action against the Safety of Maritime Shipping, 583 of the Supplements – in accordance with Article 50 para. 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask for a sign in case of your consent. – That is unanimously decided. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitution to announce the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty - Amendment Protocol with amendments to the Convention establishing the European Centre for the Medium-term Weather Report and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union The Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasts, 602 of the Supplements – in accordance with Article 50(l) of the EC Treaty. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. If you join him, I'll ask you for your sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, taking into account the amendment made by the rapporteur, taking into account that the versions of the Amending Protocol in Italian and Dutch and the versions of the Convention in Danish, Finnish, Greek, Irish, Norwegian, Portuguese, Swedish, Spanish and Turkish languages of this Treaty in accordance with Article 49(1) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. In the case of your consent, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 617 of the Supplements. Here too, I would ask you to give an appropriate sign in the case of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 83.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the new farmers and colleagues on the exit from Austria from the EURATOM Treaty. If you follow this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an acceptable sign. – This request is rejected. [[19:50:01]] 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (576, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law under Regulation (EC) No. 1371/2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport and amending the Railway Law 1957 and the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act (642 d.e.) 7. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 851/A(E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, Members and colleagues on further passenger rights in rail-television according to the model of other European countries (643d.B.) 8. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 788/A(E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on more passenger rights for public consignors – compensation in the event of inconsistency, missing connections, failed connections and other serious quality failures (644 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22956	We come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda and hold the debate under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kunasek, speaking on a voluntary basis, has been reported for 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e22985	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, we will agree to the report of the Transport Committee on the Federal Law, which lays down a federal law on the regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport, because we believe that there are first steps to bring about improvements for railway users in this area as well. It is precisely for this reason that we cannot accept the negative committee report of the Committee on Transport concerning Mrs Moser's request, because we know, not least because of an analysis of the VCÖ, that we in Austria have quite a need for recovery in terms of passenger rights. If you look at other countries such as France, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and so on, we have a need to catch up here in Austria. I think this should be an order for us to go in this direction in the sense of an increase in the attractiveness of public transport. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to use this opportunity to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal is nothing new in this form. In the national election campaign, he was already very massively introduced by the government groups, in particular by the SPÖ and by Mrs Lohfeyer, even here in Parliament. At the time, he also received the appropriate agreement, but unfortunately nothing has been done to date in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Austria can serve Switzerland as a show country in an international comparison. In Switzerland it is quite possible to use all public transport by ticket. Switzerland should be a model for us, especially since Minister Berlakovich and Minister Mitterlehner spoke only a few days ago in the energy strategy they presented about an attractive ticket offer to carry on in public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the opportunity to do nails with heads. Let us increase the attractiveness of public transport, which is why I ask you: Voices I would also like to ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23041	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23120	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23141	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! You know, for years it's been going on and it's time for passengers to have entitlements to compensation, food or even overnight. At last, passengers in rail transport receive comparable rights. This is also due to a corresponding EU regulation. In concrete terms, long distance passengers will receive a compensation of 25 percent of the ticket price from 60 minutes onwards, with over two hours of delay 50 percent. In addition, undertakings are obliged to provide information and help in the event of a delay of more than one hour. This means, for example, that refreshments or food must be offered. These information and assistance obligations are particularly important for people with reduced mobility. In case of delay of more than 60 minutes, costs for one night must also be taken over if no further journey is possible. In doing so, Austria has made the best use of the design space provided by the EU Regulation in favour of passengers. It is our transport minister Doris Buresei's particular concern that it should be achieved not only for long-distance railers, but also for tens of thousands of commuters. Especially the counterparts are the most faithful customers of the ÖBB, and they also deserve to be treated in this way. Ladies and gentlemen! In local transport, some 40 000 annual ticket owners are entitled to compensation if too many trains are untimely. Month by month will be charged whether the trains are on a route on time. If the share of the delay is too large, there is a compensation of 10 percent of the price of the annual card. If you can't start with a credit note on the next annual card, you should get a voucher. This scheme for annual ticket owners goes beyond the EU Regulation and can be considered to be a special service provided by ÖBB to its customers. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Timeliness and service in rail transport are essential concerns of our Minister of Transport. To this end, the extension of passenger rights is another important step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23182	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23205	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl, an optimal implementation cannot be mentioned for various reasons: firstly, much too late, secondly lacking! You yourself admitted that only on the pressure of the Chamber of Workers or our request, which you are now going to reject, has an improvement been negotiated for counterparts, say annual ticket owners. Previously, it was not at all the case that the entire compensation package, so to speak, has only focused on minimal implementation of the EU directive, say long-distance transport, originally only from one hour, and now it has even stayed at the hour. My colleague from FPÖ has already said that many countries have much better implementations. Already at 25 minutes late, half an hour late there is a clumsy replacement or a refund of the ticket price. Unfortunately, we are once again in time final light and also in terms of content almost final light. I would like to take the opportunity here, Mrs Minister, to congratulate you once again: It is not only about passenger rights, it is mainly about the basic orientation of the ÖBB in the interest and needs of passengers, the needs of customers! Passenger rights are part of it. The orientation of the transport – road map, reteller relationships, attractiveness of the vehicle contents or equipment of the wagons, punctuality et cetera – is a basic concern and a basic order of the ÖBB. You have to put a lot more on this basic contract, because the ÖBB has repeatedly confirmed the criticism that ÖBB understands itself far too much as a construction company, not as a transport company and not at all as a customer service company. Passenger rights are the first beginning. It is essential that priority is also given to the needs of the people who travel with the ÖBB, on the one hand in politics and on the other hand in corporate culture. No question, the creatives are usually – I can say, 90 percent – very polite, very friendly, very helpful. What is missing is the information policy, which is missing, is partly also the provision of the appropriate service framework conditions. I'll just give you one example: It was far from possible to build a washing facility for dirty wagons in Klagenfurt. The South Railway wagons were dirty, the people couldn't look out the windows, or it was just the service towards cleanliness bad. Second example: It took years for a toilet disposal plant to have been built at the Westbahnhof. Everything else was more interesting for Bau AG, only these customer-related facilities have been postponed and postponed. You can still experience it now. For example, if you want to change to a train in Villach to Feldkirchen, there are statements that do not indicate the change of track. That's where you're on the wrong track. There is indicated above “Trag to Feldkirchenen”, but the train to Feldkirchen departs on another track. The message is missing, the display directly at the platform is wrong. It is correct on the screen, only the screen is in the underpass or somewhere in the station building, but you are standing on the platform. These are examples of daily life in which the customer orientation is important, where passenger rights, which are due to be delayed, are not necessarily immediately violated. That's why I think we're working even stronger in this direction. We also need, Mrs Minister, passenger rights at bus companies. There is also the tendency of the ÖBB to lock up regional railways or to overreact to the countries. The countries then often only offer buses instead of railways – and there we have nothing in terms of passenger rights at all! And how often it is difficult to reach the other transport in good time, because the buses come too late and the train may not wait! There are still very, very many homework to be done because it is de facto about passenger rights not yet optimally ordered. Let me speak briefly to another part – I think Mr Haberzettl will continue to address it – the Railway Crossing Regulation. They have tabled an amendment to that effect. Unfortunately, we will not be able to agree to this because overall the procedure in the railway crossing regulation is very bad. We have the suspicion that the high technical standards that are imposed here – protection standards for drivers who do not pay attention – make it clear that the costs will be very high. The costs must be borne by the municipalities or the road keepers. Now, Haberzettl's request is that the ÖBB will have to pay little to no cost at all. But we are in favour of going to work with an eye-catching that you keep the sight open, make the warning signs optimal, but stay at the cost below. Otherwise, the closure of regional railways threatens us, because driving times can no longer be met due to your new regulations – only a maximum speed of 80 or 60 km/h if certain technical conditions are not met. Mrs. Minister! A long chapter, the client orientation of the ÖBB, a small contribution today. As far as passenger rights are concerned, we will support your proposal, but our proposal will go further and continue to be discussed in terms of content, including in the Transport Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23275	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23297	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must congratulate Mrs. Federal Minister. It is about the broadcast I have in front of me, in which she writes, the customer is at the heart of, quality, reliability and punctuality would be the highest bid. This has obviously led my colleague Heinzl to believe this because he is talking about great things. I'm telling you quite honestly: When we see that we have hundreds of thousands of counterparts who are confronted with the problem of the ÖBB, this law, with which we “happy” about 40,000 people in the transport sector, is almost an insult! I don't really think this is the big throw. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I also regret that we are currently making a policy of fine dyeing in the argumentation, when we are talking about the Bundesbahn, rather a policy of finery, dear Toni Heinzl, a policy of fine speech and look away in the face of problems. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have said lately that the ÖBB is an economic location, a job-creator, which is at the heart of ecologisation in freight and passenger transport. You dream of a 40 percent modal split. But little to say: nothing at all, one hears of the months-long roadblocks, of any bus replacement traffic, of the questions of the damaged doors, of all the quality problems in the wagons, of disturbed technical installations and of the like more. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to cause research, it is clear that the two responsible managements are fighting one another. The management of passenger transport says: Well, 65 percent of the delays in local transport are due to infrastructure, and even in long-distance transport the infrastructure is due to about 50 percent of delays. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But what does the infrastructure management say? – The management of the infrastructure says: Well, the planned construction work has long been known to involve it in the road map setting. They are themselves to blame, says the infrastructure for passenger transport, because there is harmful carriage material or too long a stay in the railway stations, because of this the management of passenger traffic is to blame. I therefore place not only a certain voting problem, but an blatant management deficit with the responsible managers. Let me just say for the future: I believe that, Mr Haberzettl, you bear a little blame, in these trade-unioned structures, as they are given, you will no longer be able to engage in real top management at all. Now the second and third management election is recruiting, which will then lead the company. [[Abg. Riepl: Who is the third choice?- Oh, my God!]] The now selected, i.e. future Director-General will vote in this fine dyery, which the Federal Minister has been practicing for some time. I say to you already now that Mr. Kern will play like a standing violin on the Titanic. He'll fifty us how great he is – and the company ÖBB is driving against the wall! And the Federal Ministers and also Mr Pöchhacker, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, will be conducting a little more. We will then be surprised that the debt is getting bigger and bigger – but also the delays. That's the real problem. I already have that as a management problem, especially as a quality, and this is reflected here. It is clear here that two managements, both in passenger transport and in the infrastructure sector, are fighting who is to blame. They're not guided. This is also a question of the will of the owner, but I have the impression that the will of the owner is not so much located with the Minister of State, but rather with the trade union. He also chooses who will lead the company in the future. I believe that the future of the ÖBB will be extremely problematic due to this attitude and this planning.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23357	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23379	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, item 6 on the new regulation on the EU regulation. We believe that the rights and obligations for passengers will lead to great uncertainty and confusion. That is why we will not agree. I believe that there is a great need for information to draw customers' attention to their rights. If you look at how complicated it is when it comes to delays, and what you have to look at until you get money back, you can see: Very few will make use of it. I believe that this is consciously designed and calculated to be as low as possible. - So much for it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, when the issue of rail is on the agenda, I do not want to forget the following: A new board of directors has recently been installed. I have sent a press service to help me make the manager's salaries in such a way that in the event of mismanagement, a deduction is made and a bonus is paid only if someone is in a positive position. I then received an e-mail from a railway staff member, in which he writes to me: For us railers, wages at this level are no longer comprehensible, especially if the required targets are not achieved at the point of entry. That is why I can quite well understand your objection to the deductions due to a mismanagement and find them quite well. - Quote. He then referred to our demand to raise the retirement age of ÖBB staff, which is still very low, and I will come back to it later. He has also sent you an e-mail on this subject, which seems to have been here for a long time, but has not received an answer to it to this day. He also complained a little bit about that. I would, however, like to address the pension situation of the ÖBBlers and the officials at all, because it will always be a little bit lowered. That's where you have to say: The ASVG adaptation is therefore urgently needed. If Mr Haberzettl – I don't see him now; but yes, there he is – always stands for privileges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl.]] There you have to say quite clearly: equal rights and equal obligations! Why don't we put the pension systems in the same position? Then there is no more unfair treatment. [[Abg. Haberzettl: This has already happened!]] – No, it’s not, and that’s what this ÖBB staff self writes to me! He says: If you equal, then everything! Then it's no problem for you from the ÖBB. I know all the problems with the executive officials, the postal workers who all have to pay a pension insurance contribution. Of course, that's not fair to the ASVGler who doesn't have to pay for it. So if, then, equal rights for all, then we drive over with a pen, then there is only a pension system that is understandable and not complicated. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to refer very briefly to the railway crossing regulation which you will bring into a resolution later on. This is for us, to judge according to this text, another method for disposing the drivers. I'm sure we don't agree. Afcasing is nothing new for you, Mr Haberzettl. We're going to reject that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23433	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23455	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, I have great understanding that we also benefit from the debate of a new law on railway law on basic explanations about a very important Austrian company, such as the Austrian Federal Railways. If there are also different viewpoints, this is a commitment to this company. I believe that it should be our common concern that, not only for employment policy but also for economic and environmental reasons, we strengthen this Austrian Federal Railways company, that we are all proud of this company together, because the railway is not to be thought away in terms of mobility today. Let me come back briefly to the core of the new law. It is in the Railway Act itself that we are once again contributing to increasing road safety and introducing framework conditions for the liberalisation of passenger transport. In the framework for the liberalisation of passenger transport, Mrs Moser, I was also so concerned about what you have said, that there is an orientation in spite of liberalisation in the rail network, an orientation to the needs of the people. That is why we have a clear rule in the law, to which you are obviously going to vote by a large majority today, that we do not allow for the introduction of access rights for private individuals without restrictions. It is clear that there are restrictions where the Austrian people are interested in mobility. Therefore, for example, we now have a system on the table, which will then also have to be decided that in the field of transport, those trains we promote through public service are preferred to be treated in spite of liberalisation. That is to say, we will decide today to favor the commuters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also decide – and this is also related to the issue of transport safety – a uniformly qualified training of train drivers and staff of Austrian railway companies, at a uniform European level. In Austria, we have had this level of training for our train drivers for a long time, but we want it for all because, as has been said, they will also be on the rail network through liberalisation. As far as safety is concerned, there is a third measure that we decide here. This is a point which has been the focus of the last one and a half years, namely investment, measures to secure railway crossings. Today, we create the legal possibility, in addition to video surveillance at railway crossings, to ensure that you do not – as is often the case too often – enter them despite red light, although it is a secure railway crossing. There is a survey by the Board of Directors on Transport Safety. In this one, each fourth handlebar indicates that it has already passed over the intersection despite red light. I think that's an alarm signal. That is why we are going to take another measure in addition to the safeguard measures today. Two years ago, we verified the most dangerous railway crossings in Austria, which were 56 railway crossings. I can tell you today that 53 of them are structurally converted so that we have made them more intimidating or secure, that in recent years we have invested around 100 million € only in securing the railway crossings and, as has been said, with today's novelle, we are also creating good conditions to continue this safety programme. I would like to thank all those who have already addressed the important issue of more rights and greater consumer rights for passengers on Austrian railways in the debate. We will not simply implement the EU directive in an unambitious way, because I would not have needed a proposal to do so. It is true that the EU Directive does not have a legal character without its own national provisions. So if it were true that we were doing nothing else today to allow EU law to enter into force, then the National Council would no longer have to meet at this time because it would automatically be included in the national provisions. [[Abg. Grosz: We were there all day!]] [[Abg. Riepl: I didn't see you!]] Parliament must meet, and the government template that I have put on the table here is therefore necessary because we are creating additional passenger rights, because we want to have a reduction in costs not only in long distance transport, but also for the commuters in Austria. That is why we have to decide on rules for transport today that will allow you to get back unbureaucratic money, if the service does not agree with the customer orientation. I am grateful to all those responsible decision-makers of the House who will ensure that we decide more rights for passengers in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Maier, I think that the ÖBB is a very important Austrian company. I am proud that it is an Austrian company and believe that it must remain an Austrian company. It is about improving the reliability and punctuality of passengers. It is about that we want fewer trucks on Austria's roads and therefore want to shift freight from road to rail. It's about having a powerful, fast, modern track. That is why we need to invest in the railway today, so that what we do not have today, but tomorrow, is really there. Mr Maier, I have a dream! But I do not need a dream to know that the railway for the economy, for mobility, for the people of our country is not to be thought away because it is the safest, the cheapest and the most environmentally friendly transport in this country. All of us should make a contribution to ensuring that we continue to be good on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23519	Mr Haberzettl came to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23540	Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to a special section that may not have the first impression, but in the end has enormous customer impact. I am referring to the new part 9 of the Railway Act, which on the one hand includes the introduction of the driver's licence, a European authorisation, and on the other hand, to the obtaining of the driver's licence, to the replacement of training costs. This is so important because safety-related European training standards are introduced or the conditions are created on the way there. I think Austria is one of the leading countries in Europe who are taking these steps at national level. However, I would also like to use the moment to make an amendment to the Government's proposal – the request is distributed – namely the amendment tabled by Mr Heinzl, Dr Maier, colleagues. This application deals with the technical equipment of rail crossings, in particular § 139, which is concerned with establishing a work-psychological examination for the motor vehicle service. – For the rest, I think I don't need to go closer. I would like to make a few comments in the direction of Mr Maier and Mr Hagen, and I should like to make the following point: The pension right of railways and railways has been permanently reformed since 1997. [[Abg. Steibl: Is necessary anyway!]] It is equal or equal to that of the officials and is subject to the APG as well as all others. A “privileg” have the railways: You pay almost 50 percent higher pension contributions than you, Mrs. Colleague – and this is really a “privileg” that we should also talk about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Steibl.]] Finally, I should like to say that I am surprised, as honourable Members in this House, to try to damage the reputation of a company owned by the Republic of Austria under dubious grounds. [[Subsequent calls by Mr Steibl and Mr Grosz.]] Mrs. Colleague, you should take your nose. If you would do that with your own company, then you probably would have a huge problem. It is not responsible, in fact, how the ÖVP behaves here in particular. I should also like to remind you of one thing, on the question of success: You have created a structure that destroys a company, you have established a holding company where it is determined permanently that it may not have operational competence. But just to say here that they were involved is too little. Tell me who? They have created this structure so that it is not possible. You should know that yourself. You always claim that you have economic competence – I am unfortunately not aware of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23605	The amendment which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, has been explained in its key points whether its scope is already distributed by business regulations and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23808	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23829	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Mrs Bures said that the basis, of course, is the EU regulation, but this EU regulation is not everything. This proposal, which we have to adopt today, goes beyond that. – Yes, in principle, we agree with it, we want to decide on it too, but we already believe that it could go a bit further in this right direction. You can really put everything under us, but that we are fans of the VCÖ cycling club is certainly not the case. Once he finds out what's right with the railway, he can be sure of it. For example, if he makes a comparison with what we have with airlines, or if he is considering what is happening in the area of commuters, then we can still see a number of points that we could take into account. Not all of this, I would like to know what Mr Maier has said here today, is wrong. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Be it the wagons that are too cold, whether there are some other things that are of course corrected, it immediately comes back to the killing argument that the track was broken. Please, the train is already a little better than it's on sale outside. I can't imagine thousands of employees having proper approaches, but these approaches are somewhere in the middle management field and then nothing will happen again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] We still need to catch up in the upper management area, as we still need to modernise. Let's get back to the pendulums, better to the time-card owners. The regulation we are now deciding on means: 10 percent with less than 90 percent punctuality. Well, there's definitely some better approach. In other countries, whether France, Spain, Sweden and so on, these approaches exist. It should be looked at just like what we now decide, but we should be ready to think about it again in a year at the latest and to improve it. I would also like to remind you of a request that Mr Neubauer made a long time ago. We should also think about the seniors and let them travel with an appropriate Austrian ticket, at reasonable prices – such as € 7 for example. But what's the train doing? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Let us just think of the very good report that the rail control has made. The train makes a ticket that is limited for the women of 60 and for the men of 65 years. In other words, we can decide here what we want, age schemes, for the ÖBB, are 60 and 65 years old. A word on the amendment tabled by Mr Haberzettl. Yes, we are also in favour of the fact that people who – let's say it quietly – are moving at risk of railway crossings in general, too, lightning. I would just like to say, Mrs Bures, that I am not quite wrong with you: If we are already flashing, then we should all flash, not only the domestics, but also the foreigners. You said another sentence I underlined: The ÖBB are an Austrian company and they are to remain. Yes, but if we really want to, then it must be a functioning Austrian company, and if the ÖBB really should work, then you need the iron broom to comb through once in the top third, otherwise it won't be any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23896	Mr Gahr spoke as the last speaker. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23917	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think it is quite clear that we are strengthening passenger rights at the ÖBB because we stand by our home company. Mr Haberzettl, it is also about implementing things, and the Court of Auditors has often pointed out that there is a need for action in the early retirement of the ÖBB. I do not agree that there are pension contributions, but the early retirement age is now only 52 years old, and it is quite fair and fair that this is also raised, as in the other areas. [[Abg. Haberzettl:... Railways themselves retired!]] The Court of Auditors also notes that special actions are being worked without plan and control. The ÖBB have many special offers, but these have been started without a concept. An economic benefit was not detectable in the absence of planning calculations and meaningful evaluations. It would be very important for me simply to implement what the Court of Auditors recommends. I mean, the Court of Auditors, who makes recommendations to the National Council, is here the right address. I welcome the fact that today a start is being made to strengthen passenger rights. It is quite positive to start this once in long-distance transport, but for the many counterparts, Mrs Bundesminister, we need to do more. We still need to sharpen it because it concerns these people every day. It bothers me a little that the punctuality and the determination for these violations are made internally by the Rail Control Commission. It would be important to include externals who observe these excesses. All in all, we should introduce the criteria, but we should constantly evaluate them, and what has been decided to continue to develop. In conclusion: All of us should work to further examine and take into account the interests and wishes of passengers in the future. Mobility and railways fit together, we rely on this transport. There is a lot of investment in infrastructure, and I think it must be in everyone's interest that we also benefit from this infrastructure. The railway as a former state-owned company must be developed into a modern and efficient service business. Today's implementation of the EU Regulation should be a start-up to work at the construction site – and there are many railway construction sites – and to make good proposals. It does not matter, however, if one is to operate this company in relation to public Hickhack. It is important to work together on the train in the sense of employees, staff members, but also, of course, in the interests of consumers and customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e23956	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down a federal law on the regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport and amends the railway law and the rail infrastructure financing law, including the title and entry into 642 of the supplements. Hiezu is an additional or amendment tabled by Mr Heinzl, Dr. Ferdinand Maier, ladies and gentlemen, referring to an amendment to paragraphs 12, 14, 27 and the table of contents and to the insertion of a new point 28a. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Heinzl, Dr Ferdinand Maier, and colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign of acknowledgment. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, fellow Members, on the introduction of an Austrian ticket. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Transport Committee to take note of its report 643 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, we are voting on the proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 644 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[20:32:07]] 9. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (366, e.g._Other Organiser Amendment of the European Convention on the Work of Passengers employed in International Road Transport (AETR) (631 d.b.) 10. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (495, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspectorate (VAIG 1994) (632 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24069	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Haberzettl spoke. Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24096	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. When amending the European Convention on the Work of the Internationa Road transport staff, called AETR, are about to transfer the regular adaptation of EU legislation or legislation to this international agreement, where non-member countries of the European Union are also represented, so that these countries will then be subject to the rules of the European Union. We have incorporated the so-called amendments 3 and 4, as well as the change in the digital tachograph, into the government template. After all, the digital tachograph is an effort by the European Union to get half the focus on the issues of driving time crossings and working time crossings. It is sad, however, that we already need two tachographs who are monitoring each other because they are manipulated to such an extent. The reason for this change was precisely the approximation of the AETR to the relevant EU regulations. But at the same time, I emphasize: This is actually an interim adjustment, because we are in the process of finalising further definitive arrangements. Negotiations are still under way, but after information from the Ministry of Transport, Ms Bures will make every effort to have a successful conclusion here in the second half of 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24133	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the future, the Transport Labour Inspectorate will optimize and accelerate approval procedures in the field of worker protection in the case of railway and cable rail licensing procedures. It is about the fact that up to now opinions and public documents have been used as evidence and in the future also technical aspects and proofs and certificates will be received in the whole. What is it all about? – It is about getting more efficiency and transparency in the implementation of worker protection legislation. There is a need to clarify the evidence. From my point of view, there would have been another way to intervene a little further. The proposal for the merger of the labour inspections of transport labour inspectorate – located at BMVIT – and labour inspectorate – was made by the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. It is true that currently 400 people are working in the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, 30 employees are working in the Transport Labour Inspectorate. From my point of view, it would have made sense to discuss or initiate a merger in this respect, because I think it would be important that this would be located at a service and that it would be possible to adapt structures and to reduce double-tracks. There is, of course, always an exchange, but you should still think about bringing together the agendas of the labour inspection in the future. Overall, we can say that this will accelerate procedures. The Federal Minister is authorized by regulation to speed up administrative procedures – thank you for doing so – and nothing speaks at all. It is about the fact that there is no additional burden, but a discharge. It is important that there is a practical relationship in the whole. We support this 1994 legislative initiative. I think it's long overdue that this is being adjusted. We are therefore pleased to agree to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24199	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24221	Mr President. Minister! High house! On Agenda item 9, we are talking about important changes that will be decided to determine the approval of technical changes of the so-called digital tachographs. Agenda item 10 deals with administrative simplification of transport labour inspection. I have just one example, which shows how to simplify the way in which traffic inspection can be done. I bring you the example of a Lower Austrian entrepreneur whose driver drove the truck from Baden to Stockerau. The three-month-old truck – i.e. a new truck – was stopped during routine checks on the tangent to determine whether the vehicle is technically in order. Because it was not possible to detect this on site, the driver and truck were asked to visit Simmering, where this driver had to wait one and a half hours with the three-month-old truck until it was found that the truck was technically in order. - Any expectations? That's something you can ask: Is it really necessary to have a three-month-old truck, where, on the basis of the licence, it can be found that it is a rather new vehicle that meets modern standards that meet the most modern environmental standards, to carry it there? It's not the Crux yet, it's still going on: When the driver returned with the truck on the tangent, he was stopped again. He said: Please, I've already been checked in the morning with my three-month-old truck, that's all right! What was said to him: In the meantime, a defect could have occurred!, and he was asked again to Simmering to find out again that the three-month-old truck is trafficable. What annoyed the driver particularly was that at the same time numerous Eastern block trucks were not even stopped, let alone that they had been stopped for the purpose of a technical review. This Lower Austrian entrepreneur then rightly said that he felt harassed by the Austrian state. Therefore: We say a yes to routine controls, but also to more courage to check over-old trucks from the East instead of harassing domestic entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24267	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24288	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! My previous speaker has brought an example that I would like to welcome. I was once zeugin at truck controls, at the fixed checkpoint of the ASFINAG on the West motorway near the city of Haag. [[Abg. Scheibner: We hope you were on your bike!]] I wasn't there for half an hour, many Eastern trucks were awakened and subjected to a closer technical test. There were trucks on the road where the brake test was carried out by the driver over the red area. So that was so blatant. If you look at how little the control density is just in view of this danger potential overall – this truck has already been on Austria's roads 150 kilometres because it has come from Hungary – then you already think that often a protective angel is on the road that does not happen more. That's why I say: Truck controls yes, but just where the suspicions focus very much on technical faults or the excess of driving and rest times. We will, of course, agree with this proposal. He is an enormous improvement, but I would like to see the opportunity to give you, Mrs. Minister, the chance that you, together with the Minister for the Interior, will improve the truck controls in Austria at all. The few stationary facilities of the ASFINAG are too few! If someone travels from Germany to Austria, he is not currently controlled on the West motorway because the control point Kematen is blocked by a construction site and there is no control point in this direction in Lower Austria at all. In Bruck an der Leitha there is one only under construction. So we have practically a truck Eldorado on the way from west to east. From the east to the west there is the control station of Haag and nothing else. From the south to the north, it is also partly poorly ordered, for example, when I think of the Pyrn track. I know the individual countries have mobile controls. The problem with these is, however, that there is often too little space on the federal roads to set up the mobile control trains at all. The national governments must act to do this. Our request in this context was indeed to use existing areas such as those in Suben near Schärding; an old checkpoint from the time when Schengen controls were still being carried out in us. This place is now empty, and it should be activated, Mrs. Minister. Finally, a few words on the current road safety balance: I am very, very glad that we again have a reduction in the number of traffic victims that the number of dead has fallen. I am sorry, however, that the group of so-called weak road users, namely children, pedestrians, older people and also those on the road with single-track vehicles, has a higher blood duty and a higher level of injury and that the transport safety policy of their resorts in this area is really only very, very slow and slow. We have already been in at least three or four sessions in the continuation of the transport safety programme, and some of it is still not working on measures, but we are only being re-analysis. This has been done for at least two years now, analysis for analysis, but no measures. Mrs Minister, today's approval applies to the field of improvement in the labour inspectorate and to these electronic truck tachographs. However, this agreement is at the same time a call for you to finally do something for general road safety. I'm curious about what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24329	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24350	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the European Convention is also a contribution to increased road safety, as it allows us to extend the driving and rest periods for truck drivers in the European Union to countries which are not members of the European Union, but which, as Austria is transit country, are on Austria's roads. If this agreement ensures that truck drivers from Albania, Andorra, Armenia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, San Marino and Norway – you know that, in the documents – will have to comply with the steering and resting rules in the future, then this is a good and important agreement that will be decided here. The accident statistics show that the risk of being seriously injured or killed in a collision with a truck is four times as high as with other vehicles. It is therefore a proper agreement to be ratified by the National Council today. To discuss the issues of how it looks about controls and how we can remove trucks that have technical deficiencies and pose a safety risk: There is close cooperation between me and the Minister of the Interior, and there is a clear division of tasks, which is also good. To take a truck out of the running traffic and assign it to a review body is the responsibility of the executive. Only the executive can get a vehicle out of traffic. That is why I also believe that there are allegations that there are shocks against Austrian companies. [[Abg. Vock: And what is it when a three-month-old truck is checked twice in a row?]] I assume that the Austrian executive is acting, acting on the basis of the legal regulations, and that it is not possible to talk about harassment against companies, but that it is a matter of having too many dangerous trucks on the roads. I also tell you how many they were – they will then be checked by the Ministry of Transport, the BAV, if the police have pulled them out of traffic, whether there are technical security defects –: Last year, there were 8 700 trucks that we had to pull out of traffic, which no longer came to Austria's roads because they had serious shortcomings. That's about a quarter more than a year ago. It is important for the safety of the drivers, the pedestrians, that we have trucks that have technical damage where the braking systems do not work, get out of traffic, and that together with the executive. And I succeeded in the checks – I'm going to do it this day anyway – so that we will also finance a mobile facility so that you can no longer drive that far. We have increased the financial resources from €1.6 million to € 2.6 million – that is by 60 percent more! – so that we can get these dangerous trucks off the streets. That should be a common concern to us!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24388	Mr Dolinschek has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24409	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the amendment of the European Convention on the Work of the Passengers employed in international road transport, I can only agree with my predecessors and the Minister of State: The purpose of this new regulation is to take account of the development of technical progress and to take into account in any case those things that Austria has not yet understood, such as the technical requirements, the minimum number of checks on road controls, but also the conversion of tachographs to digital control devices, for which a transitional period of four years of course is justified, because from today to tomorrow not all is to be dealt with. We will, of course, agree. As far as labour inspection is concerned, we welcome this change in the law, which will avoid delays in administrative procedures in the future and at the same time ensure non-discrimination-free control. I would like to say to Mr Hermann Gahr: Putting the work inspectorates together has something to do with it. But these are peanuts. Finally, take on the administrative reform, a state reform which has been proposed since 2003. Then we can decide on these things immediately, that would be all done in a wash. [[Abg. Head: Wash up!]] You have to trust yourself, because that would be the real savings!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24451	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Amendment to the European Convention on the Work of Passengers employed in International Road Transport, in 366 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on Transport Labour Inspection, together with the title and receipt in 495 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:51:00]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (577, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Road Law 1971 (633 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 918/A(E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on evaluation of the high-level road construction projects provided for in the Federal Roads Act (634 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motions for resolutions 983/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on rethinking uneconomic, climate-rich road projects in Burgenland (635 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24542	We now come to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24570	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Railways and roads often excite the moods in the plenary session, and that is good, because that is the case in the population. In the railways it is the delays that generate the population that are still overcrowded and, of course, often outdated trains, obsolete inventory. The highways look different: There you often discuss the variant South, West, Middle – no matter what. It must also be said that often too little attention is being paid to the needs of the population and that it is not actually taken seriously. It looks like: The population often rejoices when after years, after decades, a highway is built somewhere, and is bitterly disappointed if the concerns of the population are not taken into account in any way. The S 34, the Traisental Highway, was the main theme in the last Transport Committee. In principle, I have to presend, we are for the construction of the S 34, because that is what the people of the Traisental want and it is also a good thing, but not the Western variant, which seems to be the cheaper variant again. I remind you: Whoever builds cheaply often builds expensive too. In our opinion, we would be much, much better eastern variant. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Why you don't build it, I can't understand it and we can't understand it. Zig e-mails from the population of the Traisental were sent to me and to colleagues who are our opinion and who also support the Eastern version. I would also like to tell you why we are against the Western version: A connection to the node A 1/S 3 cannot be made directly with the Western variant. Secondly, The western variant goes through the best agricultural land, which is destroyed with it. It is also a recreation area in the vicinity of St. Pölten – it is often called the green lung. And thirdly, A second huge motorway node is thus created west of St. Pölten. – That is not our agreement. The east variant that we would support would be directly connected to the nodes A 1/S 3 and would lead along the traisen flow towards Traisental. That would be the better variant for us and for the majority of the people of the Traisental. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24624	The next speaker was Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24645	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The amendment to be decided today of the Federal Road Law is fully in line with saving. For this reason, the S 31 is taken out of the construction program in consensus with all the politicians in the Federal, Land and at municipal level. Instead of the high-level highway, a state road will be built. The second important amendment concerns the S 34 in Lower Austria. The S 34 is one of the most important road construction projects for the Lower Austrian Central Area. The S 34 means a massively improved connection to the high-level road network for the region. Ladies and gentlemen! Until now, the entire traffic is moving in the middle of the Lower Austrian capital of St. Pölten. Every day, up to 40 000 cars and trucks roll through St. Pölten and the adjacent settlement areas, directly past schools, kindergartens and shops. So it's no wonder that there's a lot of personal injury accidents. From 2005 to November 2009 alone, so not a really long time span, 338 people were injured or killed in the event of accidents. Ladies and gentlemen! Many accidents occur during daylight and during impact times. The risk of accidents is still the massive load caused by traffic noise and fine dust. The expected rise in traffic will make this situation even worse. A discharge of the passengers by bans or a shift of traffic from the towns is not possible without the construction of the S 34, because you know that the B 20 is currently the only road that leaves the capital of St. Pölten to the south. The Mariazeller Bundesstraße, that is, the B 20, is already at its capacity limits at the classic impact times. Staus in the morning and evening hours are already among the daily scenarios for many commuters from the Traisen and Pielachtal. High house! In times like this, however, it is hard to calculate. At present, the construction of the S 34 is to the east of St. Pölten. I am really surprised that my predecessor from the FPÖ is in favour of the East Variant, whereas now the Deputy Clubobmann in the Lower Austrian Landtag, the FPÖ-Deputy Königsberger, is no variation at all. [[Abg. Singer: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's change towards a variant to the west of St. Pölten is taken into account by the sparse thought. I can recall the following: The western variant is shorter with about 9 kilometres and costs of € 135 million are estimated for the western variant, and thus 50 million € are saved compared to the East version now enshrined in the law. In other words, for the western variant, there are some advantages: The road needs fewer areas, and no connected settlement areas will be intersected. The West is also preferred to environmental policy: The road will better fit into the landscape and the flood protection along the trails will not be affected by the western variant. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased that today's decision in the National Council can begin with the preparatory work on this important project. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! On behalf of the large majority of the affected population of the Lower Austrian Central Area, I would like to thank you for your support and I am sure that with your support, a start of the S 34 2012 and a traffic release 2014 will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24691	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24712	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There was talk of saving today in the morning. The Minister of Finance has announced a great deal that we are facing very, very difficult times in the budget. The savings are also read in the economic parts of the various daily newspapers when it comes to re-evaluating and evaluating infrastructure projects. Mrs. Minister, there can be no talk of saving in the case of S 34 at all. You only need to look at the internal ranking of the ASFINAG, so to speak the profitability of the planned highways and motorways. There is also an assessment of profitability in the S 34: minus 10. – So, I think that is a traffic policy, because there is a railway line that can be attracted, anyway, a nonsense, business, from the ASFINAG view, it is also a nonsense, and we know very well that it is only being built because Mr. Landeshauptmann Pröll wants to open up a business area near Wilhelmsburg with a motorway connection. But this country is now allowed to implement ASFINAG institutions, we are allowed to re-arrange in a new variant in the federal law and we should decide today according to your proposal. Ours No is quite clear, and that is why I am tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are saving the ASFINAG € 170 million, we are saving the locals the resistance or we are getting their quality of life, we are improving the overall life situation there, and above all, Mrs. Minister, something very important: We respect, if we do not, the rule of law, because Her approach, partly the approach of the ASFINAG, was, when we consider the Strategic Exam traffic, cockbled, right-wing par excellence. They themselves have defined the criteria for setting up a highway or motorway. None of these criteria meet the S 34! None: not the frequency, because we do not have the 24 000 vehicles per day that are necessary to ensure that, according to your criteria, a road project becomes high, ASFINAG-Rang receives, we have kei A link between the capitals of the country, we have no loophole. All these are requirements that you have created by law, which are anchored in the SP-V. All this is not fulfilled by the S 34, but still, with a breach of justice it will be built, it will now be incorporated into the Federal Road Law in a new form. Please, you can't! It is likely that – 100 percent even, not just likely – complaints will be filed at the Constitutional Court because there is also a second massive reason for this: They also violate the Alpine Convention. According to the protocol of the Alpine Convention, Austria has committed itself contractually not to establish transit routes in the Alps, but the S 34 is practically the beginning of a possible abbreviation from the West motorway to the South motorway. I know that Landeshaupt Pröll wants to open up business premises in the first place, but otherwise, if not further developed in any form, does not make any sense at all to the south of St. Pölten. All in all, Mrs Federal Minister, we have proposed to you, at last, in the sense of the economy and the efficiency of a transport policy that is geared towards the needs of the people – think of a transport policy that is geared towards the needs of women – to evaluate this billionaire federal road law and to make the main corrections, to complete and delete the entire hit list of negative profitability. Save, remove, move towards women-friendly transport policy and do not continue to implement what the heads of state have inundated you! You will not be the servant of these heads of state forever, will you?- Oh, my God! I mean, that's really depressing. But they do that – I don't understand at all. And that also in view of the fall in oil prices. I mean, you are building an infrastructure, although in the future, due to the development of the cost of fuel, you will certainly be less traffic, no question. They even reduce jobs. It's really a personal concern to me. Take the money in your hand, operate residential renovation, finance cheap living spaces! This creates jobs in Austria and at the same time benefits people. They used to be active in the housing sector: You know very well that we need a lot more quality there, that we sometimes need better provision of living space, that the building volume can be extended there. But no! Civil engineering must be on devils coming out. Now I close with the following note: It is also an economic nonsense, because the Austrian civil engineering industry is designed for a maximum volume of €1.6 billion per year. And if you count together what the ÖBB and the ASFINAG invest every year – they always call it quite generous – then that is €3 billion. Please, 3 billion, that totals the capacity of the construction industry in Austria. They serve the large-scale construction companies of Central Europe or Western Europe, workers who live elsewhere, but not with us. So I can disprove your argument in the direction of the infrastructure package at the front and the back, especially with regard to the violations at the S 34. I would like to thank the people who have taken the time to attend this debate this evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24792	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24870	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. Speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24891	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, there is not only a request here and today for a whole concrete transport project and infrastructure project for the debate, but also a request from the Greens, who would like to call into question all the road construction projects in general, and I would therefore like to say one thing to you: Thank God there are national leaders such as Pröll, who are on the side of the regions that are in favour of the economic development of the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] These are important infrastructure projects, such as the Weinviertler highway, the S 3, which simply have a very important effect on the economic development of these regions. To question this again does not matter – you have seen it again in the municipal council elections – so please consider this position! It is important that high-level roads are also built there. These are links that not only connect the regions but also create links that are of regional importance – between Vienna, Prague and Berlin – which relieve the population of the places affected on the other hand, and ultimately increase the economic dynamic of the regions, as has been said. I would therefore ask you: Rethink your point of view! Support with us also these important infrastructure projects! The population in the affected regions will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24931	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e24952	Mr President. Minister! High house! Under these agenda items, we are talking in principle about two streets, the S 34 and the S 31 – both contradictory: One wants to build, the other one you don't want to build. First let me take a short look at the S 34, the Traisental highway. What I have heard now about the storm of the arrainers who have come upon us – rightly, I suppose – tells me that: that the arrants not or too little involvement. That's where I see the mistake, and that's why I can only say: Back to the start! Put the road back to the start, review it again! Then you can re-evaluate this: with new traffic counts, with new traffic numbers, with the integration of the trailers, with weighing the problems. What bothered me, too, is that this road leads somewhere into the “Pampa” – under quotation marks – that is, it stops in the middle of it. There is no access to the road, no connection to the high-level road network, and that does not seem to me to be well thought out. The other is the S 31 in Burgenland, the Burgenland highway, which is a big concern to me personally. I know the states around shooters on the mountain. If you drive through it or live there, that's crazy! You can't stop what's going on in traffic, how the houses are vibrating right there, because two meters in front of the house are running past the trucks. It can't be! If I look at the entire history of this Burgenland express road, this S 31, which was then included in the general traffic plan after a negative referendum for the entire road – only shooters voted for it – and then Mr. Landeshuppmann Niessl goes here and resolves it again for electoral reasons and admits that he is making a detour of shooters, then I have to say something is wrong. We from the BZÖ do not allow ourselves to be abused for party-political and electoral games. Finally, I would like to address point 13 and Mr Brunner's request – Mr Donnerbauer mentioned it earlier – as follows: This request concerning the stoppage of all road construction projects must be totally rejected. I'm telling you why: Mobility must be ensured. It is important to have a high-level road network on which the whole Traffic is guided so that it does not ratter through the villages. That's to be rejected. I've experienced this with us on the doorstep. Thank God we get the second path tunnel tube! Mrs. Minister, this has begun your predecessor, Hubert Gorbach, and you continue it. – Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25000	Mrs Bures has spoken on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25022	Mr President. High house! I believe, of course, that, if there are changes to the Federal Road Law, this debate must also be taken as an occasion to refer to the new economic backgrounds that we are in front of and allow them to flow in. There is no doubt that the economic situation has had a massive impact on import and export, and hence on the Austrian transport industry as a whole. This also means, of course, that the impact on transport companies, such as the freight transport company train is one, but also on the company ASFINAG, because its financing is naturally due, among other things, to revenue from the truck toll. Because of the economic situation, we have massive collapses here. It is assumed that in 2009 there will be around € 130 million less revenue at ASFINAG. At the same time, it is the case that we Of course, with regard to public budgets and also the necessary consolidation of these budgets, there is also an extreme financial pressure. I believe that today's change is a good proof that these potential savings potentials that exist can also be realized, and that, with today's innovation in two very concrete projects, we are not only showing what ASFINAG is doing permanently – it is of course constantly checking where there is savings potential, there are always very strict cost-benefit calculations carried out in these companies, but there are legal obligations through the taxative listing of road construction projects to implement these investments in certain periods of time through agreements – but in addition to these permanent cost-benefit calculations, which are running here, it has actually been possible to use very concrete savings potential for two projects. As regards the first project, namely the S 34, the Traisental highway: Today, we are not discussing their inclusion in the Federal Roads Act, but today we are discussing the question of moving a route, i.e. another variant. Since 2006, this road has been in the Federal Roads Act, and what is on the table today is the possibility that we will be able to incorporate this road link – without the railway suffering, for by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the runway and the tramway are included in the economic packages of the railway, in the development and rehabilitation programmes – to choose a route that is more economic, which is also less ecological. That's what's on the table today, and if you're talking about it being cheaper and bringing about €50 million in savings in this new route tour, then, I think, it's something you can't close your eyes, where you can't say it's just about a few cents, but that's a lot of money. This is about investments that we might be able to make better use of in many other areas which have also been discussed. Therefore, the S 34 with a new route guide is the possibility to use this transport link, which has been in the Federal Roads Act for years, also more economically and ecologically. On the issue of the involvement of citizens: We have very strict environmental impact assessments, and citizens' rights are naturally respected in the course of the EIA and, of course, as is the case with all projects, with high care, with high sensitivity, with high accuracy. – But it is a good example that we can benefit from savings potential. The second is a proposal where, overall, we take something out for the first time. I have asked many who have been in the Transport Committee for a very long time: It can hardly be remembered that a road construction project has ever been taken out of the Federal Roads Act. I can tell you that I am getting wishes and desires on a daily basis, which we could not take in everything, but it has been explained for the first time, also in discussions with the population in Burgenland, with Mr Niessl, that it is not a natural law that it is becoming more and more roads, but we have succeeded in removing a road from the Federal Road Act, that we are saving ourselves costs of around € 52 million and that, in the interests of the population, with the head of state Niessl, there will be another variant in Burgenland, a more cost-effective variant that will also take into account the transport policy needs of the region. That is to say, a win-win situation between the federal government – we take out for the first time a federal road project – has succeeded, the country of Burgenland and the Bevoelke In this region, it is also possible to find a suitable and good solution for all. Finally, let me say something about road investment as a whole and about investment in civil engineering: You need to know that 40 percent of the funds we invest in the road are again measures to strengthen road safety. This is almost a road safety vote which is taking place here today, because there has hardly been a matter in which we do not gradually miss out on anything to ensure greater road safety. If we invest in the stock, namely in the road coverings, as I said, that's 40 percent – if we invest in second tunnel tubes – I only want to remember the catastrophic tunnel fires in the Tauerntunnel, in the Montblanc Tunnel with twenty dead people – this happens for traffic safety reasons. That is why we have said that we also need second tunnel tubes, we need stronger monitoring centres and traffic control systems, we need trample strips, we need, as we have said, measures that will also lead to investment in the road not only to new construction, not only to accentuating, but also to have a transport network in Austria where safety is available, as far as technically possible. I've never made a locust out that I'm clearly trying to prioritize mobility, and that's the rail. The result is also reflected in the figures: We have invested €700 million in the rail and €200 million in the road in the area of road safety only. So, too, these are low-cost investments, but investments that benefit people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25088	The next speaker was Mr Hell. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25109	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to today's decision-making, the novelle to the Federal Roads Act brings substantial necessary changes. In concrete terms, this will also be used to speed up procedures for project changes, which will bring much more flexibility. This proposal also explicitly states that the Federal Road Law does not encroach on the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of demonstration. It will also be regulated by law that no land speculation will occur in connection with conversions. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, in the current Federal Road Act, the important network connection of the S 34, as the Federal Minister has already mentioned, has been written and decided by this House for the Lower Austria Central Area. Following a strategic review, the road will now be carried out instead of the original east variant in a Western version – a consideration already proposed to the population in 2008 and communicated to the mayors concerned. Mr Anton Heinzleys has put forward many of the arguments that speak for these roads. In summary, this means that the West Version S 34 brings environmental and economic benefits to the east and therefore a legislative change is imperative. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the construction of new construction routes for the railway, but also for roads, always leads to discussions. For and against must be weighed. The essential thing is always to look to the future. The Lower Austrian Central Area will need this network connection in order to protect and relieve the population of the current B 20. However, transport solutions need not only to be found in the area of the road, so we also support regional delegates in further development and modernisation and continuation of the railway line to the Val Golsen. Mrs. Federal Minister, after an agreement with the State of Lower Austria, you have also ensured the financial resources that the current infrastructure of Traisen can be expanded for the time being until Schrambach. As a result, from December 2010, it will be possible to offer the 2008 roadmap. I am convinced that with the completion of the St. Pöltner main station, an alternative, good route will also be possible in the railway area in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25164	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25185	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I already know that the Burgenland is very important at the moment, because important elections are also coming. Nevertheless, I would have liked you to have found a few words about Upper Austria as committed as you have presented this subject. You may also be able to repeat this, for example, the Westring and especially the Mühlkreisbahn and Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We'll delete them!]] They made a clear commitment to the West Ring in the Federal Council. In the meantime, one hears from the media that it might not be like that anymore. I would therefore ask you to speak again. At least we liberals confess to the project Westring – and I am a Linzer anyway. Remarkably, at the last municipal council meeting in Linz, we made a request for a referendum on this subject, and the Greens – you hear and marvel! – have not approved this request for referendum to the Westring. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] So that, I must say, is really remarkable, Mrs Moser, because the Greens would have to agree, if they were honest with politics and with these street projects, with the unique, historic opportunity. Then I would have believed what you requested here today. However, I really do lack the faith that you mean it seriously. If 80 percent of the Linz population is for the Westring and 70 percent say that the Westring in Upper Austria is urgently needed because it contributes to a real discharge of the Linz city area and thus to an incredible improvement in the quality of life, then we are on the right side, and that is why we are for the Westring!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25232	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, Also 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25255	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Dr. Moser, you talked about saving. I can assure you that the amendment of the Federal Road Law will very likely lead to savings. I don't know how much you're convinced. In the Committee you did not give the impression that you believe our arguments, but I can assure you that there will be very good savings. Mr Hell has already tried to explain this to you. Perhaps I should like to draw this out even more clearly: There is a need to speed up the procedures. That's you, I think, but sure. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, at the expense of the citizens!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Alone, the faith is missing!]] This law makes it possible for the time between the approval and the release of traffic to be subject to changed circumstances – and must also be taken into account. That's not to be discussed away. With regard to land speculations: They will be suspended in the future, and that will really free up large amounts. It's going to be in Be like this in the future: If the municipality has been informed of the public edition of a federal road construction project, there will be no further increase in the value of the land. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Thank God!]] That's all I'm saying. I have once again telephoned with the Ministry on ensuring the rights of freedom of demonstration. It's clearly like this: It must be approved by the District Headquarters, but it will hold consultation with the ASFINAG, and finally the District Headquarters will decide. Another of your criticism points is completely empty: You've moked about the fact that only four weeks for the review is time, and that in the summer's main holiday time. [[Abg. Dolinschek:..., why should we believe the other, what you say?]] This clearly shows that the government also works during the summer, where you say again and again that it does not. [[Abg. May. Brunner: No, not the government!]] So that's totally empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25359	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25380	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would also like to warmly welcome the residents of the S 34 at the visitor gallery. This shows the importance of the commitment of the many citizens' initiatives in Austria, and I would also like to thank you for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today is a historic day: A road from the Federal Roads Act will be removed for the first time, namely the S 31. This means that for the Burgenland, our world heritage remains untouched and the tourist region around the Neusiedlersee remains untouched. For us Greens, if I may say so now, this is also a very special day, because after years and decades our arguments are finally taken seriously and this road falls and because nine years after the popular surveys that took place there, the citizens are finally taken seriously and their decision is taken. This is a huge success for the citizens' initiatives! – I would like to congratulate you very warmly, and I believe that this should also encourage many other citizens’ initiatives that this Federal Road Law is not grounded in stone, but that we can also bring further movement into it. Anyway, it's necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister, you mentioned potential savings. I have a few more for you – I am referring to my request – namely S 7 and A 3 in Burgenland, which are among the most uneconomical projects at all. The S 7 is about 500 million € taxpayers for 29 kilometres of motorway – so this is certainly not economic! Nature spaces are being destroyed – Natura 2000 sites – and regional strengths are not taken into account, and we have already talked about climate change today. All these infrastructure projects are throwing us back much further in the climate balance. That is why we need to rethink and remove many roads from this Federal Road Act. The mobility in Burgenland, the mobility of the Burgenländerinnen and Burgenländer also do not help these road projects, these transit routes at all. We need small solutions that increase mobility in the regions, and not huge infrastructure projects, which will result in decades of continued arrest of the citizens of Burgenlands for driving and commuting – at rising fuel prices. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Ask those affected, then you will see that they think differently! Ask the Burgenländer and Burgenländerinnen!]] I find this highly irresponsible and socially worrying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is the task of the country to ensure relief – and this should finally be done: local discharge measures and no transit routes, therefore also today my request to remove the transit routes that cut the Burgenland, from the Federal Road Act and from the general traffic plan. The EIA procedure as a civilisation procedure has already been addressed. If you say, Mr Auer, that you want to cut it down, then this is at the expense of citizens' participation, and that shows what it is about to implement these road projects against the will of the population, even with threats of expropriation that we can prove, Mrs Minister – you cannot wipe them out with dirty responses to the question! The population in the Burgenland has clearly expressed their will, in many, many popular surveys with very clear results – in S 7, S 31 and A 3. We also have higher voting participations than some other popular surveys carried out recently. I think if it is the Burgenland government, if it is the head of state, if it is serious to you with the will of the citizens, if one considers popular surveys to be binding, then one can start with it. The Turkish Members, many of whom are not present, now have the opportunity to show them how serious it is with popular surveys. By the way, I am of the opinion: Austria needs an independent, independent and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25441	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25464	High house! Today, the West-Trasse of the S 34, the so-called Heinzl-Schnellstraße, is to be decided. My colleague, Christian Lauschhat, has already set out the reasons and arguments why an East-Trasse would prefer the West-Trasse. By the way, colleague Christian Laussist here in the complete similarity with our Landtagsklub and with our Klubobmann representative in the Lower Austrian Landtag, Königsberger, who made exactly the same arguments in the Landtag, but also in press releases. [[Abg. Heinzl: He didn't!]] – Mr Königsberger has very probably listed the reasons; You should've just gotten more information. [[New calls from the Abg. Heinzl.]] To your arguments, Minister: The West-Trasse is said to be the more economical variant, you say, because the construction costs are reduced by €50 million. – I have to ask: How is this possible with a new motorway node – for there is already such a one at the East-Trasse? At the West-Trasse, it has to be completely rebuilt, and I am wondering if this is really what you are saying, Mrs Minister. In any case, I believe the expert when they say that construction costs are lower. Mrs Minister, you have also said that the West-Trasse is better from an ecological point of view. However, you have said that the environmental impact assessment, which will examine the variation of the ecologically better, has not yet been carried out. So it would have been fairer to examine both variants carefully, precisely at their cost, but not only in terms of construction costs, but also in terms of current costs, namely those of taxpayers, because the drivers then have to make a detour every day in this new race route. This too costs money. The taxpayers' money is not so important to you, Mrs Minister. As far as the ecological aspect is concerned, whether East or West, I can only say: Now the “green lung ” of St. Pöltens cut, I can't imagine that this should be better ecologically. Check the legitimate opposition of the affected residents! Do not simply emphasize the opposition of the arrants, but allow both variants to be checked to the same extent!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25514	Mr Walser spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25535	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! – I am glad to see my co-founder leave. [[Call at the FPÖ: Where is the Bavarian?]] I'd like to present it to you again if that's what you want. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] There is, of course, nothing bad that does not have anything good – and that is what I mean now not with regard to the Freedom Party, but with regard to the economic crisis. The government has already received several tips today where to save. I am going to give a few more tips on Vorarlberg today; Tips, Mr. Donnerbauer, who does not go in the direction that we Greens, as you have described, are against everything, but we are very carefully examining projects. The same nonsense we hear from you, Mr Colleague, also with regard to power plants. Even here it is by no means the case that we Greens in principle reject everything, but we also look at it and see if the projects make economic sense, whether they are ecologically compatible and whether they fit into a large plan. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: This is tested! Then it wouldn't be in the law if it hadn't been tested! All this has been tested for years!]] This is not the case with the S 34, as you know very well, in this "pröll variant", and that is why we are very determined against them. To expand a high-level road network, there would be a lot to say. The Transport Club Austria has published a study that has been stagnating traffic since 2006. In 2009, as a result of the crisis, it was even declining, but I think that at this time it is more than right to question this road traffic law carefully. We do not, but there would be a potential for savings in millions. A few small examples from Vorarlberg: The Montafon is currently planning or projecting a detour to Lorüns. However, it would be more than done with adequate noise protection measures – and that is why there is already resistance. [[Call the ÖVP: I don't know!]] In the election campaign, the Süd-Zumfahrung Feldkirch played a strong role, a million project that will have exactly the opposite effect: The population is not depleted but burdened because this project clearly attracts extra traffic. At the same time, it would be possible to expand the railway connections accordingly, so that there would be an attractive offer for the many commuters to Liechtenstein. But nothing of it is being considered at the moment! In the finished construction of the second paving tunnel tube: exactly the same problem. We know the gate has gater function, so to speak. However, the second tube will cause this to attract more traffic, which is quite clear. [[Abg. Hagen: This is a nonsense...!]] – Mr Commissioner, you know that too. [[Abg. Hagen: Ten years too late! Every day! You have no idea!]] The main problem, however, is the S 18, the Bodensee-Schnellstraße. There already – fortunately – the Constitutional Court applied for its veto at the beginning of 2007. However, the plans continue indefinitely, although we also know that this project is not necessary and we can save ourselves very, very much money. You have pointed out a number of things, Mrs Minister, for example the S 31 in Burgenland – but that is too little. In general, we need to “mistake” projects, and we really need to re-examine them, from the point of view of a traffic which will certainly not increase as it was forecast years ago. In this context, I only recall higher oil prices, higher petrol prices. All of this will lead to dramatic collapses. Thinking She said that – the hearing in the Transport Committee made this clear –: This project concerning the S 34 is illegal! This has been impressively demonstrated by an expert in the Committee. [[Abg. Heinzl: He didn't! I'm sure he doesn't!]] It's a "Pröll" variant. We can give up on it, no: We have to give up on that! Please take note of this and focus on what experts have recommended to us! - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[21:37]] [[21:37:50]] The vote will be taken at
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25671	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Road Act, 633 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Dr Moser, colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Ing. Hofer before. First of all, I will vote on the amendment mentioned, then on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We are therefore going to vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr President, who refers to an amendment to paragraph 12. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who speak for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 13 as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a corresponding sign if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its 634 Supplements report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 635 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:40:52]] 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25785	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first Mrs. Dr. Moser has been mentioned. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25812	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! We are for every transport safety measure. If rescue vehicles so to speak need to use the panstrips, please. Only: What we do not want is for the re-use of the panstrip for rescue vehicles as a whole to open the panstrip in traffic jams, so to speak, to be the third trace. Unfortunately, your request is so formulated, and that is why we have to reject it, although we are of course in favour of having “rescuing alleys” for pantographs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25836	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25858	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In situations where minutes decide on people's lives, it's life-saving when workers arrive at the accident site as soon as possible. One way to be at the accident site quickly is to be the so-called “rettunggasse”. Mrs Moser, we will certainly be talking about technical details in committee. I am pleased that the Greens as well as the Blue Light Organizations – the Red Cross, ASBÖ, the fire brigades, the ARBÖ and ÖAMTC) are also for the introduction of a “rettunggasse”. As has been said, the Committee on Transport is still discussing the specific issues relating to the implementation of this important initiative, and I am looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25885	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25906	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Moser, it is simply inexplicable that you are against it now. You are against it because you want to be against it, otherwise it cannot be explained. I don't understand this at all and can only tell you one thing: Perhaps you'll find out at the first helpers, at the Red Cross people, at the fire brigade that travels every day, whether on the Inntal Circle Railway or on the change. Rescue roads are already being constructed there voluntarily. In Switzerland and Germany, this has been a rule of law for 30 years. But you oppose it because you just want to make opposition. I find that objectionable! Although today's media reports say that the accident figures are going down, which we are very happy about, 630 deaths – we still have a minus of 7.4 percent – are 630 too much. Mrs Bundesminister, I can ask you to carry out the examination very quickly, involving all those involved, and I am looking forward to the 1. This report will be held on December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25936	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25957	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! When you drive in Germany and get into a traffic jam – the same applies to Italy – the whole thing works very wonderful: the cars spray apart, and in the middle there is a corresponding alley free. The entrance to the city of Washington is similar: Overhead indicators show that something can be, and already the drivers behave accordingly. It is good if we decide here and today that it will be examined in Austria. I've had a bit of a concern in Austria alone. That's starting with the circulation. Around the world, a circular traffic works wonderfully, but in Austria it is flashed wrong. The drivers blinked on their way in, they didn't blink on their way out. I know something similar about a ride in an executive vehicle: There's a police vehicle coming after a car, a traffic jam was created, and there was an accident, and at some point the distance has become too tight, and the police officer said: Left is the other side, you really go left now! I know that some of the officials in BMVIT also have these concerns. I hope that the Austrians prove to be mature and that the examination will fail accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e25990	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26012	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We too will support this demand by the BZÖ, because it is necessary to create all the possibilities that can help workers quickly, safely and quickly in the event of congestion and accidents. We have also tabled a proposal on noise protection walls which has already been postponed for the second time. Mrs Federal Minister, all motorways and motorways with soundproofing facilities should be checked to see if there is a barrier to snow clearing, whether the water flow is secured, so that it does not come to a mirrored road surface at low temperatures. It should also be ensured that there is an improvement in road and highway road safety in order to ensure a safe construction provision there. Emergency exits should have a minimum width of 1.20 m. And above all, noise protection walls should be avoided between the roadways because they represent an obstacle to helicopter landings and the like, especially when they are curved inwards. I hope – the Asfinag is in the process of preparing these things, together with the Red Cross and the Voluntary Fire Department – that a lot of things will happen, Mrs. Federal Minister. And as an alternative to noise protection walls, you should also ensure noise reduction by the production of corresponding tyres and corresponding road coverings.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26051	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26072	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we all agree that any measure is important and necessary to ensure that on-board vehicles can help the victims as quickly as possible in the event of local accidents, that any measure is important, where the use of vehicles can, as far as possible, come to the victims without barriers and obstacles. It is interesting – therefore, I would like to point out – that there was already a question answer from the Minister of Transport who at the time said there was no need for action because everything was regulated in the law on and for himself. But it is now clear from this request how important our minister are the wishes of the Blue Light organizations. I thank you very much for that. I believe that this motion for a resolution must, above all, seek to ensure that this required "resilence street" finds a high acceptance within the population, that the possible chaos, because people are not accustomed to it, is prevented and that rapid and efficient assistance is offered, guaranteed and achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26103	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26124	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It was not until December that we held here in the National Council a recent hour on the subject of "Vision Zero", a vision dedicated to the long-term objective of preventing deaths in road transport. It is gratifying that in 2009 the number of fatalities fell from 679 last year to 633. However, in the case of all structural safeguards, it is often overlooked that we also have to complain of road fatalities because of the fact that vehicles are unable to arrive at the accident site in good time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore important to launch today the implementation of the "rettungsgasse" because it is intended to enable the use of vehicles to make a better start in the event of a traffic jam after an accident – a model that has already had a positive effect on our neighbours Germany and Switzerland. We will also take into account a long-term absolutely legitimate demand of rescue organizations. I would like to thank not only the operational organisations but also the car clubs, which have repeatedly acted as a voice tube for all responsible road users for the "rettungsgasse". The Federal Ministry will now communicate, in cooperation with the countries, with the driving schools, the Asfinag and the rescue organizations, as well as the automobile clubs, the issue of “rettunggasse”, the awareness of the right behaviour of the Transport operators sharpen and also report on this in December. From these results we will – and I hope so – take all further measures for legal implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26169	As the last speaker, Mr Jury has been mentioned. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26191	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! As mayor of a community with a portal fire brigade, which accounts for 80 percent of its operations on the Tauern motorway, I very much appreciate this initiative by colleagues Rädler. He knows what I'm talking about when I say that this safety alley is the way to the future. [[Abg. Pendl: Rescue alley!]] Safety or rescue alleys. Mr Pendl is very well aware of this. The "rettungsgasse" is a good initiative, because: Whoever helps quickly helps twice! The implementation of the Blue Light Organisations, with the driver clubs, but above all with the roadkeeper, the Asfinag, is a good measure for the safety of our drivers. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26227	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. [[Abg. Head: What do you want? What was that?]] - Did nobody listen? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I repeat: We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 84.) 15. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (496, e.g._Other Organiser [[21:53:52]] Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Austro Control Society with limited liability (637 d.b.) 16. Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. 17. Point Transport Committee report on amendment 354/A by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law of 2. December 1957 on aeronautics (Luftfahrtsgesetz – LFG) (639 d.b.) 18. Point Transport Committee report on amendment 996/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on reducing the emission thresholds for noise in the aviation Immission Protection Regulation (640 d.b.) 19. Point Transport Committee report on amendment 997/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the rescue of helicopters in the state of Salzburg (641 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26305	We now come to the items 15 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26332	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The reason for my proposal is the approval of carriers as ultralight aircraft in Austria. Carriers are used in other EU countries in traffic and border control or in the search for persons and have proved very useful. In Spain, for example, the police are used by the police, and in Germany, the police in Brandenburg are also testing their use. The question, therefore, is why vehicles notified in Austria are not authorised, and to what extent the legal framework for the use of cranes in Austria is suspended if they are allowed without problems and without obstacles compared to other EU countries such as France, Italy or Spain. Mr Keck, you have rejected my request, and this is justified by the reference to EU Regulation 216/2008. Unfortunately, you have not read them exactly, and I therefore need to correct you: According to Article 4(4). 4 of Regulation 216/2008 of the European Parliament shall not apply at all to single-seat and two-seat cranes with a maximum permissible take-off mass of not more than 560 kg. Similarly, a whole range of surface aircraft and helicopters with various maximum weights up to 500 kg are not included. Furthermore, Mr President, this regulation does not preclude the subsumulation of the carriers under the term ‘Ultra light aircraft’, contrary to the reply of my question from the Ministry of Transport, because the term ‘Ultra light aircraft’ is not explicitly mentioned in this Regulation. So a German solution would be very possible for Austria. In my opinion, it would be at the highest possible time to end the escapes and allow the useful use of cranes in Austria as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26369	The next item is the speech by Mr Heinzl. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26393	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In Austria, the Austro Control is responsible for the safe and economic course of civil aviation. Every day, up to 4,000 aircraft, large or small, are cared for. The Austro Control receives money from the state for its activities, on the other hand it also collects fees from its customers. At present, the law does not contain a rule that these fees are adjusted regularly and automatically. This has led to a 30 percent reduction in real charge revenue between 1994 and 2008. This development, as well as the generally too low cost coverage of revenue from fees, has also been strongly criticised by the Court of Auditors. In order to avoid necessary major adjustment steps in the future, the fees will be automatically adjusted annually in the future. The current model will be made analogous to the changes in the price of vignettes. From 2011 onwards, Austro Control's fees will be increased annually by the rate of inflation. With it, very much honored Ladies and gentlemen, it is ensured that the Court of Auditors' request is taken into account and that the level of cost coverage is no longer reduced.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26420	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26441	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to comment on two points. First of all, the Austro control: I don't think automatism on the increase in fees is a bit missing. It is simply being disbursed, not taking into account the real costs, but it is quite simply a charge increase that only serves to raise money. I would like to explain to you, Mrs Minister, how the Austro Control is so happy to carry out monetary procurement; I have been told by a police helicopter pilot. This pilot told me that although the license is issued for five years – every year you have to make a medical examination that you can extend it – you have to apply each year again, although the licence applies for five years. This application is an A4 paper sent there, stamped and placed. The old application is taken out and torn. And that costs every time saying and writing almost €1 100. That's a joke, that's a looting of the pilots, ladies and gentlemen, so it can't go! In relation to item 19, I would like to address the rescue. A major problem will arise in this area if no solution is found here. The new police helicopters are not designed for rescue, I have to deposit that here. The reason I address this is the regulation. All the helicopters we have in the rescue operation have the EU authority, but for Austria they are not allowed because the black ÖAMTC, a precursor organisation of the ÖVP, wants to build a monopoly here and disassemble it accordingly. Mrs. Minister, I don't understand you're allowing this. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] One thing I have to say to you: There are the helicopters of the Knaus company, which has now rented two helicopters so that they can continue the rescue service. I don't like the ÖAMTC. I know, Mr. Kopf's looking a little bit wrong. Now I'm still coming to Donk Air. The Donk Air has two of the best aircraft in Europe. However, these must not be used in Austria. – What is being done here smells like heaven! That's pure political justice. That can't be, Mrs. Minister, please take care of it! I have this from safe source and I like to go to a coffee with you and explain it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26490	Mrs Schittenhelm is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26511	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speakers have already put the legal situation to the fore, but still some words to it. I would have liked it very much and it would have been useful, just as in the preliminary discussions also wanted and supported by the social partners, the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce, since a user advisory board was set up, where other institutions also have a say in the design of the increase in fees and the composition of fees. Unfortunately, this was rejected by BMVIT. Maybe you can still think about this and install it. Something else we should think about: We have a body that apparently doesn't work really harmoniously. On the one hand, the Republic is, it is 100% shareholder, and at the same time a private-law company is the organizer and logistics company. I think that this does not really fit together economically or financially. It would be useful to make a division so that we can also have more transparency, more economic efficiency and a stabilised financial policy in the area of Austro Control. I'm trying to think about it, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26541	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26563	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The contrary request made by Mr Hofer, which provides for the thresholds of the Air Transport Immission Protection Regulation, these are those values which determine when an undue harassment by air noise is present so clearly that they are based on WHO's guidelines or recommendations, provides a good opportunity to point out here a massive problem, namely the enormous harassment and impairment of the population in the neighbouring communities that are located around the airport Vienna. The flight movements have almost tripled in recent years, from 125 000 take-offs and landings in 1990 to now 350 000 annually. That is what urgent action is needed. Both the Chamber of Workers and the Federal Environment Office have already noted in their opinions on this Regulation that the noise levels in this Regulation are far too high, or that the actual determination of noise measurement is criticised, and that the noise of the soil has not been taken into account. I should therefore like to draw your attention once again to the situation: Noise makes you sick, not only psychological, but noise also favours cardiovascular diseases to a high degree, and may therefore invite you all quite cordially, especially you, my Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens, whom you have already rejected in the Committee in advance, for the benefit of the people living in the neighbouring communities around the airport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fazekas]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26608	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26629	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, I fully agree with my previous speaker, Mr Herbert. No question: Air noise is particularly harmful because noise is very punctual and massive at night. That is why we have prepared an extra motion for a resolution which I would like to put to the reading here: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this formulation, we have prepared a comprehensive request to meet the interests of the locals, especially in the construction of the third slopes in the central Vienna region. We will therefore now vote in favour of all the items on the agenda from 15 to 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26695	Mrs Bures has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26718	Madam President. High house! You know that I have been under review with new regulations, far lower thresholds, as far as noise development is concerned, also because I believe that we must be very sensitive in terms of noise development and measures, because there is quite a high level of sensitivity in the population in this regard. But it is natural to find this compensation. Above all, the protection of human health, and this also means protection against noise developments. But out of discussion it is undoubtedly that there can of course be no closure of all Austrian airports. That's where you'd shoot beyond the bow. It is therefore under the premise that: Health is in the foreground! to take all measures. And that's what happened. We have had a very long assessment period. I have, of course, included all aspects of environmental medical advice here and invited the Medizinuni Vienna to draw up this opinion. And we have something about which many European countries envy us, namely, a form of civil participation in a mediation procedure – for example, the Vienna-Swechat Airport – which is to be used today for civil participation procedures in other European countries. And what we will achieve in Austria is that we will, as it were, be the focal point for this form of involving the population in such projects. I therefore have no doubt that what has been agreed in mediation procedures with thresholds is also binding; that here we also appreciate the involvement and expertise and participation of the population, and that all that has been agreed there on threshold values is also binding on us regardless of the regulation. Let me briefly say to the Austro-Control-Law: The Austro Control has two essential areas to do, as it were: a non-hospitable and a sovereign part. The non-hospitable part makes a very decisive contribution to air safety. These are about 300 high and well-trained air traffic controllers that make sure there is safety in the Austrian airspace day and night, these are the aviation information services, which also provide the pilots permanently, the meteorological services – so that we know a little about what we are talking about here. The Austro Control also has a state-of-the-art contract. This concerns the approvals of aircraft, the issue of pilot licences and also the verification of aircraft. I believe that it is also right – and that is why there is this transparency – that we have two areas of funding, depending on whether they are the sovereign or the non-hospitable scope of the ACG. In the non-hospital field, it is true that we have a 100% cost coverage, namely the full cost coverage principle. The Court of Auditors recommended that this cost recovery contribution should also be increased. That is what we will do with this amendment, namely the valorization of these contributions, which was also a recommendation from the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. We will succeed in raising this coverage from 39 percent to about 49 percent. However, we will not be able to cover all the necessary savings potential, not even close. That is why I would also like to inform you that, if all these in the flight are maintained, In the last year, the company has actually achieved a 10 percent savings saving through a hard savings rate in the field of administration. That is why, as I believe, both of them, it is necessary that the level of cost coverage on the one hand be increased by this fee regulation and that on the other hand, this committed and ambitious savings potential in the area of ACG is further realized. What is also important to me, because this is different from many other European countries, is that in the most difficult year of Austrian aviation – and that was the year 2009, where we had seen a decline of 7.7 percent in aviation – one of the few European countries that said we did not raise any fees in this difficult year for aviation. There was a fee stop this year. Of course, the community was aware that this was a unique crisis aid. That is why, I believe, this will be a good solution today if, in future, in agreement with the BMF and with the Court of Auditors, we make a valorisation of these fees in order not to have big jumps, but also to ensure a balance of value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26779	I am still saying that Mrs Moser's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26859	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26880	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Helicopter rescue in Salzburg – in our resolution No. 997/A(E) introduced on 24. February 2010, everything is on the table. The Salzburg Landtag took a unanimous decision in favour of Heli Austria and its employees and against the Austro Control procedure. It was also brought on the part of the Salzburg State Government criminal charges for the suspicion of serious abuse of office and serious concerns about the impracticability of the persons acting in the Austro Control. – So far, no response has been made, although Austro control, but also the competent ministry has done so arbitrarily, without equality and without competition from the EU. Safety is the highest command in the air rescue service, which is out of question. But what is offered here, ladies and gentlemen, gives rise to the suspicion that a monopoly should be created here so that only more ÖAMTC helicopters can operate air rescue services and no one else. And that can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. On the question in the ORF broadcast “Salzburg today”, which is exactly what was accused of the company Heli Austria or what was not fulfilled, a speaker for the Austro Control knew no answer. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, That's not how it's supposed to be in Austria! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26915	Mr Stauber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26937	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would also like to refer to Mr Hofer's agenda item 18 concerning the reduction of the emission thresholds for noise. First of all, I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for the way in which you have addressed the current problem, including all those involved, including review procedures, mediation procedures and independent expert opinions. Of course, anyone who knows this sensitive matter is aware that a solution can only exist in a medium between minimizing the noise pollution to the abrasives and, of course, also the important issues for the economic location, which concern the general public. I think this middle path was found here. In any event, the Air Transport Immission Protection Regulation had to be adopted because this Regulation is an essential prerequisite for the completion of an EIA-based construction project at Austrian airports. This now concerns both the countries of Vienna and Lower Austria in the case of the third runway at the airport Vienna-Schweichat, which is considered to be the long-term security of this main aviation location and thus also economic location for Vienna and Lower Austria, as well as all other Austrian airports. It will also be important for countries to be more involved in this area in the future, because I think that the planning policy can also be used to ensure that no housing can be built in the near future. As far as the thresholds are concerned, I believe that we have adhered to the WHO's requirements. The Institute for Environmental Hygiene of the Medical University of Vienna also received an environmental medical opinion. I believe that this was an important enrichment to determine the thresholds of third, objective side. All in all, it can be said that this was a well-prepared thing, and I think the Minister for Transport has chosen an exemplary way of dealing with this difficult problem between quality of life, health and economic development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26974	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e26995	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Austro Control is concerned, there is no week, no month, where there are no massive complaints about this authority, and I believe that there is a real need for action on the part of the Federal Minister. You must not forget: If Salzburg's Landtag takes a unanimous decision – which, by the way, today cannot be taken by the representatives of the government parties, which is very surprising to me – and if the Salzburg state government pays an advertisement because of the suspicion of serious abuse of office, then it is already very clear that there are so many things in this authority and some employees are on the road to harm domestic companies – and today also representatives of these companies I warmly welcome. [[the speaker turns towards gallery]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to ask you, as you are in the house today, to take the time to have a brief discussion with those concerned, so that you can see what enormous difficulties this industry has to face in Austria. Mrs. Minister, you mentioned the savings measures. The fact is that the fees have been increased by 50 percent at the latest – in line with a hundred times the rate of inflation – and that at the same time the Court of Auditors points out that an Austro Control employee earned an average of €154,470 in 2007, ladies and gentlemen. 154 470 € Average income in 2007! [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: That's a nice salary! It's incredible! That's a loud managing director who's working there!]] Here, of course, there are also ways of making a reasonable payment. To Knaus Helicopter and to other companies that are affected – I address Eisinger specifically here –: There's been one since 1. Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the common organisation of the There were already serious constitutional and EU concerns about these rules. The company was severely damaged. Airplanes were grounded, there were even licences from pilots, on an arbitrary and unheard-of basis, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore urge, Mrs Federal Minister, that you take this authority very, very intensively among your fictions and with the wildly become employees, like a certain gentleman who has performed in an ORF mission – I think he is called Hasenhütl; it was, I think, “Report” or “theme”; I hope he has not been paid for his appearance – once talk Tacheles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This gentleman has not been able to answer the question of why helicopters should not fly and what should be done better. It was not possible for him to give a reasonable answer. It is therefore necessary for us to take a close look at this authority. In the end, I would like to address one more point – perhaps many of you do not know it: Austro Control employees are doing their flight hours to companies they should actually check! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Imagine that a district captain is issuing driving licences, and certain driving schools are free of charge to the county headquarters for their vehicles. That is exactly the same procedure! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we also need to stop. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to ask you very, very urgently, first of all to have a discussion with those concerned today and, secondly, to really put this authority to the fore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27069	Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27091	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also refer to this motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer on the rescue of helicopters in the state of Salzburg. We will not vote in favour of the request, because on 1 January we shall vote in favour of it. January 2010 ended the one-and-a-half-year transitional period for the entry into force of this Section 3 para. 2 of the Air Operator Certificate Regulation (AOCV), which entered into force in July 2008. The new regulation was by no means insurmountable for the company Knaus. As early as 1995, initial information was found to be available to companies operating in rescue and ambulance flights. It was the intention of the legislator to ensure maximum safety for rescue helicopters and passengers by standardising safety standards at the level of the highest safety standards for rescue helicopters. Practically all aircraft operators with the exception of the company Heli Austria have aligned and adapted their helicopter fleet to the new regulation from mid-2008 onwards. Due to timely preparation, these problems would not have occurred for the company Heli Austria at the beginning of the year. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer:... in Salzburg are different opinions!]] Also, the accusation that the regulation has only been met by ÖAMTC and its partners is not sustainable, as the Austro Control only has the legal provisions to maintain these high safety standards. It is essential to meet the technical and flight operating conditions, especially in certain topographic conditions such as limited planning, use of adverse weather conditions, high-mountain flights and densely installed areas. Since mid-March, the Heli Austria has had helicopters that meet all safety standards, so the rescue operation at the site of St. Johann could also be resumed and thus the flight rescue operation in the state of Salzburg or an optimal emergency medical care of the region. Finally, I would like to say that the statement that flight rescue is not secured in Austria is in no way true. 37 helicopters are currently meeting the necessary requirements.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27127	Mrs Bures has spoken again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27149	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofer, as a longtime member of this House, as a member of the National Council, I would have had the opportunity to make an actual correction to what you have said here. But I'm not doing that now, but I'm taking a position from the government bank. You know, Mr Hofer, you can of course try, as it were, not to represent this important task in this respect. I believe that it was particularly important that I also referred to the tasks of the ACG as regards the security of the Austrian flight. Of course, you can start with number players and here always put a little bit of suspicions into the room. But if you really look at it serious and serious, then you can see immediately that "numbering" is a kind expression, because: If you are looking at the number in the Court of Auditors' report as regards the income situation in the ACG – and I assume you are drawing on data from the Court of Auditors which, in a very good and transparent way, announces a sum – through the number of heads of employees and then say that hundreds of thousands of people are paid, then you are deliberately trying to hide that, in the case of staff expenditure in a company, of course, the service providers' contributions – to name a part – are included, as is the case with the Court of Auditors figures. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Well, that's a surprise! Who would have thought that? That's something new!]] And that a serious company makes provision for possible handling requests, which is also included in these sums. Since, Mr Hofer, I have a lot to say about the question: Where can we save?, but do we not like the figures, because that is not what employees deserve there! I don't think we should make a policy on the back of a envy society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: You don't do that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What do you say to Knaus?]] The second thing that matters to me – I would also like to thank Mrs Lohfeyer, who has already pointed out what it is all about: If we want to ensure that rescue flights take place under the highest safety criteria, that we want there the protection of patients who are to be rescued, the protection of the medicaments, the pilots, it is, I believe, very important that we have the highest safety standards that are possible here in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That's all wrong!]] We have had a transitional period of one and a half years – a scheme that has been agreed in this way before my time. I think a year and a half is a lot of time. The companies have also taken advantage of this opportunity. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: (wise towards gallery) Ask the interested parties! Talk to the people concerned!]] And I think we shouldn't let anything go to make sure we're safe here, too. We also have too many helicopter crashes – I could give you the list. There is also no need for a Minister for Transport to watch if we have an increase in accidents and, in fact, deaths and serious injuries in the event of helicopter accidents. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: They are not preventable by this regulation!]] We have to ensure that we actually make the appropriate investments for everything that is possible in the light of the technical state today. One more point, because you spoke about the fact that a 50 percent increase in fees has taken place: Mr Hofer, then we are talking about the figures. Then let's say what fees it's about! For example, it's about the fee someone pays when he makes a private pilot's license. Anyone who makes a driver's license, a moped driver's license, knows he's paying fees for it. And if you make a private pilot's license, and if you're going to have a good luxury for it, I'd mean the fee from 120 € to 180 €, I think: If someone makes a private pilot's license, then he can afford this 180 € – because the 15-year-old who makes a moped driver's license must also be able to afford something if he picks it up from the traffic office. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Who pays €10,000 for the shadow itself?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So in so far as: Consider it only as an actual correction to your remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27309	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27330	Madam President. Minister! Mr Hofer, your motion for a resolution is as follows: “The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is asked to exercise the right of supervision and direction vis-à-vis Austro Control GmbH in the form that the helicopters of the company Heli Austria GmbH in St. Johann im Pongau may be used until the legal conclusion of the procedure for ambulance and rescue flights.” That means it's a single company, colleague Hofer! And what do you want? – You ask nothing less than that the Minister for Transport, who is responsible for air traffic control in Austria, instructs a helicopter company to allow flight operations to continue during a running procedure. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Salzburger Landtag! It was decided unanimously by the Salzburg Landtag!]] – Dear colleague Hofer, this is political intervention in pure culture, what you are doing! [[Abg. Neubauer: Burgstaller has decided to do this in the Salzburg Landtag!]] I really have to tell you one thing, colleague Hofer: I guess you know that, but I'm asking you this: Do you really know what you want with this request, and do you really know what you're doing with this request? [[Abg. Neubauer: The Burgstaller has decided! Tell the Burgstaller and not us!]] I'll tell you what you're doing, Mr Hofer – I've asked myself: You are throwing yourself here for a company on the track, which has been shown to be informed since 1995 that the Air Operator Certificate Regulation will change. You're throwing yourself here for a company on the track, which has allowed another transitional period of one and a half years to pass, Mr Hofer! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Salzburger Landtag!]] This was only one company – all other companies in Austria, dear colleague Hofer, did not do this: not ARA-Flugretung GmbH, not FlyMed GmbH, not Schider Helicopter Service GmbH and also not ÖAMTC. Mr Hofer! If you look at the numbers, how many helicopters for the ambulance and flight rescue operation it before the 1. ==References====External links== In January 2010, the following should be noted: The ARA-Fluchtretung GmbH previously had two and afterwards two – it had invested –; FlyMed GmbH had two and afterwards two; Heli Austria GmbH had six; afterwards only two; the Christopherorus Flugretungsverein – that is the ÖAMTC – had previously 24, afterwards 27; the SchenkAIR had two, afterwards one; the Schider Helicopter Service GmbH had six, afterwards two and Wucher Helicopter GmbH had one previously zero and now one. Mr Hofer! I'm really telling you the following: All I have read to you now, millions have invested in new aircraft and thus meet the high standards, as they apply in our neighbouring countries, and they are the first to ensure the safety of flight staff and passengers. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: No, that has nothing to do with that!]] And I have to tell you, Mr Hofer, if the safety of the passengers of the company Heli Austria is not concerned, then this procedure is really right and then we will really be right to support our minister. What she's doing is all right, because what's being done here, dear Mr Hofer, is for me nothing but the economy of friends. We are concerned about the safety of people in the transport of ambulance and flight rescue equipment, and we are in favour of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27436	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Hofer. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27457	Madam President. High house! Mrs Bundesminister, it is a matter of revenge if someone has an office and does not know about matter at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have become Minister of Infrastructure for Infrastructure for a reason that I cannot explain and are responsible for the field of aviation. If you tell me today that the Court of Auditors' staff costs also include provisions for employees calculates your own side costs, then that's really nothing new. The amount is nevertheless a really more apparent one, and you can believe that you deserve good – too good – in the Austro Control, if you look at the employees' achievements there – individual employees, I don't talk about everyone. Secondly, Some of the mandates here have rejected my request with a passion that is truly remarkable. – However, I can remind you that this request has also been unanimously decided by your own comrades and colleagues in the Salzburg Landtag – unanimously! [[Hö-Rufe at the FPÖ]] I would therefore ask you with the same passion To contact her comrades in Salzburg and the head of state who is bitterly angry because of this procedure to his own Federal Minister, and to carry out this match there once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] What is happening to Knaus – you have brought the comparison with abroad –: This Regulation shall apply only in Austria and not abroad. We have made very different provisions here. You'd know that if you talked to entrepreneurs. There are also some here – ask them! Ask the entrepreneurs how it really is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem is that there are too many people sitting in this House who haven't worked a single day in a private company, let alone a company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] That is the basic problem of this House, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27536	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No reporting is required. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act on the Austro Control Society with limited liability, including the title and receipt in 496 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft at third reading too, to give a sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 638 of the supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 639 of the supplements. Whoever gives the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Transport to take note of its 640 report of the additions. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr President, on air noise limits on medical science, which actually protects health. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 641 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:37:09]] 20. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (457 e.g._Other Organiser Amending instruments of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and the Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union, Geneva 1992, as amended by the Conference of Government Agents (Kyoto 1994), by the Conference of Government Agents (Minneapolis 1998) and by the Conference of Government Agents (Marrakesh 2002), together with statements and reservations (645 d.e.) 21. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 523/A(E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on ensuring the sustainable storage and availability of mobile data relevant to health and related data from other radio systems (646, e.g.) 22. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 690/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, on regular checks on compliance with the required limit values for mobile communications systems (647 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27671	We now come to points 20 to 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27698	Madam President. Minister! We can agree to the first two points. On the third point, with regard to Mr Hagen's request: The idea of checking the transmission systems regularly sounds very sensible at the first moment, but I can say that in the town of Mödling we took the pre-eminent care seriously and checked the transmission systems there. We have found that the limit values that are set are not reached in Weitem. That is to say, if you were to carry out regular checks there, that would only mean that you always notice that the limit value is not reached in the case of Weitem. – This only leads to unnecessary costs that mobile operators would eventually pass on to mobile users. The radiation in mobile phones is undoubtedly dangerous to health for certain groups – for children, older people, sick persons – and to what extent the experts discuss it. But one thing is certain: More dangerous than the radiation on the transmitter is the phone on the ear.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27731	Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27752	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Just briefly: I can support the previous speaker's statement on Hagen's request. To Mr Moser, I would like to point out that her request regarding sustainable storage and availability of mobile data relevant to health is, I would say, very bold, because if you really wanted to save over 60 years, it is likely that you would have to build a second Google Centre in Austria – apart from the fact that the technical availability of this data relevant to health is not given at the moment. I believe that it is also from the perspective that we all or some are trying to introduce data storage in Austria for no longer than six months, because there would also be much higher costs there if the Telekom operators had to store these data, so to speak, does not make any sense to store these data for a long time. 60 years? – Dear Gabi Moser, to be honest, I can hardly imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27785	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27807	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are in favour of what you have said, Mr Vock, namely that the health of the population is at the heart of the population, and that which we have already put into paper as a five-party decision in earlier periods. What have we decided to do to protect health? – Epidemiological studies on controversial – I am now saying carefully “disputed” – effects of mobile technology. I personally have the impression that it is primarily important to have a closer look at the biological effects of limit values et cetera. We want to make sure that that is guaranteed what we have already decided: that you can finally research – and for research in epidemiology you need data, which is why we request. I find it completely pointless that we are now starting a fundamental discussion at three and a half o'clock at night. I appeal to you, Mrs Minister, that sometime we take time for the very essential problem of electromagnetic radiation, which mobile phones themselves or transmission masts arrive. For the first time, a plea for our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27849	Now comes Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27870	Madam President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! We also decide to amend the Statute of the International Telecommunications Union. This is the body that conducts the international radio conferences, which determine the frequency bands in which type of radio – mobile, television, radio – is transmitted. In this context, I should like to ask the Federal Minister for Transport, who will be present to the Ministry of Transport in about a week, about the radio frequencies released by the digitalization of television, to have economic meaning. There is the possibility to make these frequencies available to mobile communications, such as Germany, Switzerland, actually the vast majority of European countries, or are doing it. This is important for several reasons: For example, in rural regions we still do not have broadband coverage, and in the medium term these frequencies would be sufficient to provide a high-performance broadband network also in rural regions. I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you will take this decision soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27904	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27925	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I'll do it very briefly. We will all vote in favour of three points. With regard to our request for its defence, I would simply like to say the following: Mr Vock, here you are wrong! We all know that these mobile systems are being updated over and over again, and Mrs. Minister said in committee that she cannot really say exactly how often these systems are being reviewed. – I think a regular check would ensure that not wildly mounted, the transmitters are reinforced and then cause any health damage, but that the regulated way goes and there is safety for the population in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e27955	There are no more words available. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the proposal from the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Amending instruments of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and of the Treaty of the International Telecommunications Union, Geneva 1992, as amended by the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Kyoto 1994), by the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Minneapolis 1998) and by the Conference of Governmental Plenipotentiaries (Marrakesh 2002), together with declarations and reservations, in 457 of the Supplements pursuant to Article 50 para. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the request that the Arabic, Chinese, English, Russian and Spanish language version of the amending instruments and the English and Spanish language versions of the declarations and reservations of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49(1). 2 B-VG are to be announced by the fact that they are available for public consultation at the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 646 of the supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 647 of the supplements. Whoever gives the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:47:05]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on motions for resolutions 908/A(E) by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Franz Hörl, Mr Mag. Roman Haider, Maximilian Linder, Dr. Gabriela Moser, colleagues on optimizing cooperation between the Austrian leisure and tourism industry and the Austrian Federal Railways, with special focus on cycling and guest arrival (629 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28044	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Hörl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28071	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With this all-party proposal from the Tourism Committee, the competent members of the Federal Government are to be invited to take action and to take action on the management of the Bundesbahn in order to make the trip by train more attractive and thus increase the number of guests who travel by train to their resorts. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] In addition, bicycle tourism should be further strengthened. In particular, transport tariffs are to be made more attractive and bicycles can be taken as far as possible on all trains – at present only 55 percent of trains – also from mountain bikes. [[Abg. May. Worm: Mountainbikes!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Currently 74 percent of the guests in Austria travel by car and only modest 6 percent by rail – this is Austria's modest European average. [[Abg. Riepl: And how many are driving by bike?]] – Switzerland has 32 percent. Since my group does not make any further comments, because of course we still have a number of good speakers, I can tell you that we naturally support this unanimous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28133	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28154	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr. Hörl, I know you as a committed tourist expert; that you have now also become a dedicated quick speaker is surprising, but understandable about this time of day. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He's a dedicated cyclist too!]] – Engaged cyclist, too? – We have to convince ourselves of that first, colleague Moser. I can largely agree with Mr Hörl's statement on the content. However, I believe that it is also important to stress that the request for an initiative by Mr Moser is due and shows that, if all good will is, there are certainly five parties which are also due to the initiative of an opposition party. However, I would like to mention one point because now the Winter Tourism Report has been published and we have to realize that the Austrian tourism industry has been well cut off, but still less naughty than in the years before. I think this is particularly problematic because we have formulated the general objective of pursuing a year-round tourism. It is also about the employment of people in tourism. And tourism is an essential factor in our gross social product. In this context, Minister Mitterlehner has announced that South-East Europe will have the next goal to advertise guests for Austria. I have recently heard in a discussion that the xenophobia, which is partly spread through political parties in Austria, is of course not particularly good for tourism. Allow me to look at the FPÖ now! Mr Fichtenbauer, if you have not understood today that we are surprised that the FPÖ feels affected when talking about right-wing extremism, then you have to take a picture of what this means for your policy! Finally, however, I do not want to say to my predecessor, Mr Linder, that he has made a consensus-oriented Presidency in the Tourism Committee. I would also like to make this quite official here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28199	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28220	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a five-party request that we shall of course vote in favour. However, and I would point out that we have focused a particular focus on cycling in this proposal: It could happen in the foreseeable future that we do the bill without the host, because on the Danube cycle path – this is the most popular cycling track in Austria – a cycling ban threatens to occur in winter, between October and April. And this must be avoided in all circumstances, even with regard to the tourism strategy presented just last week, where cycling tourism is an essential pillar of Austrian tourism. The background of this threatening roadblock is that in winter it will not be cleared, cyclists will still drive and in 2008 a cyclist has crashed, injured and complained to the roadkeeper. You should think the house mind is saying that you don't ride the bike on the ice, but obviously there is only the house mind at the “Billa”, but not to buy there. I would therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28278	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28345	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28367	Madam President. Dear Mrs Federal Minister...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28382	Mr President, this is my failure. You're already there, I've been irritated. Actually, Mrs. Dr. Moser would be in front of you, but you are already talking. I think we'll survive. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28403	Madam President. This five-party proposal concerning the tourism industry and the Austrian Federal Railways is of course supported by us. I think it is long ago that Austrian tourism is also being put on track. This climate-friendly way of traveling by bike is unfortunately only difficult in Austria. One could almost say that tourism is not equipped with the railway offer. For example, if you take the new sign of the ÖBB, the “railjet”, you have to say that it has little to do with comfort because you can only accommodate a small suitcase and the main connections from Vienna to Carinthia or from Vienna to Innsbruck are completely overcrowded. We looked at the costs in this regard, namely for the Stecke Wien – Innsbruck in the second class. If you reserve a seat, the ticket costs 130 €. The same route by car – Vienna – Innsbruck and return – costs 90 € by car, although you are independent and flexible on the road and faster at the resort. There's little wonder – Mr. Hörl has already said – that 74 percent of the guests in Austria are driving their own car to the resort, and only 7 percent by train. One important point I would like to address is, especially as regards tourism, that we are grateful to God – I must say – in February of this year 1 484 teaching places were open, and that, although the gastronomy apprentices are not allowed to do overtime and the working time is limited until 20 o'clock. That's what it's about communication. I think we need well-trained professionals in tourism for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28443	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28464	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very good that you, Mrs Minister, although you are responsible for transport, are now listening to how constructively we are working together in the tourism sector. In the area of tourism, thanks to Mr Silhavy, thanks to the BZÖ, thanks to our well-cooperational partners, it is possible that initiatives developing individual political groups will then really be adopted by all. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Thank you Franz Hörl!]] There's no such funny bit-reflex there: Coming from the opposition, must be excruciated. No, there is the cooperative, community, hospitable, opposition-friendly, socially oriented rhythm and this culture that you really work together. I do not understand why we cannot live this culture of the Tourism Committee in other areas too. Mr Hörl can really be seen as a model of the ÖVP Group,Collegin Silhavy in the SPÖ Group, but also Mr Obernosterer. [[Abg. Head: Don't hurt him too much!]] I love everyone, especially when it comes to my body topic. And with this I would like to conclude: My body theme is promotion of bicycle transport. It is a shame, Mrs Minister, that I have to go over the tourism committee in order to make the issue of cycling a consistent decision here, namely that the ÖBB is finally making efforts to improve transport opportunities. It is significant: About an economic argument – says: Value creation through cycling tourism – it is then possible to achieve a consensus. I am now getting used to argument only more economically, because there may be more potential for success. In the end, however, we do not only need some progress in cycling, we also need overall progress in the transport conditions of the ÖBB, and we also need more impetus in various other common tourist concerns. I mention only at the end – and I like to repeat it again and again – the Austrian advertising. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28518	Mr Obernosterer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28539	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Section Chef for Tourism, it's nice that you're here too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Moser, I would like to thank you for this request, because this request is more serious than one can see in part. Considering that air tourism has increased in travel behaviour over the last ten years and that rail tourism has declined, it is known how necessary it is at this sensitive time, that all the economic branches, especially the federal railways, the hotel industry and the country organizations, stand together and develop offers and that the offer of the federal railways in travel is improved accordingly, so that we can strengthen the guests – as has been said – on the rails. It is not only important that the guests come to the rails, but we also need to know, apart from cycling tourism, that many secondary railways do not have to be able to exist and lock if we do not succeed in getting the guests on the track. Only through tourism is it possible to maintain many secondary railways. In this sense, I would like to thank you for the unanimous motion and thank you once again, Mrs Moser, for this initiative. I would also like to thank Mr Linder for his presidency on the part of the ÖVP. I'm sorry your Carinthian party officer shot you out of committee and you didn't get a place in your new home, the FPÖ, but we from the government party are willing to bring your good ideas into the committee if you are present if it doesn't allow your own people there. [[Abg. New builder: I can't do that! We can't nominate there!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28582	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28603	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, I also welcome the fact that the ÖBB will continue to work with tourism in the future. I would like to report two examples from my home district, from the region of Schladming, i.e. the Dachstein-Tauern region. The Ski World Championship will take place there in 2013. The rail network is well renovated, renovated and expanded there so that the tourists who come there can travel by train in the future. But there is another region, namely the Gesäuse region, in which the route potential would also exist. But it doesn't look so beautiful there. There is also a national park and a nature park. But we are now hopeful that we can negotiate with the ÖBB that we may be able to let the train that is going into the Gesäuse on Saturday of Vienna go on Friday. This means that we would have an overnight stay more for the hotel industry. The guests would be there a day longer, and this, of course, also supports the local economy and brings something to the whole region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28634	Mrs. Dr. Winter is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28655	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! High house! Mrs Silhavy, I must very much doubt the truth of your statement here from the speaker's desk. In the 2008 election campaign in Graz, there was a Human Rights Advisory Board that had nothing better to do than accuse the BZÖ and the FPÖ of racist and xenophobic statements, and the balance has increased by 2 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You can see this in the statistics. - Just so much for it. Mrs Moser, can I ask you a question? We'll take you. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. no know how to go to the truck inspection site – now she goes to the toilet! – have come to Amstetten. With the wheel, huh? That would be very interesting for us. There is essentially nothing to be said about the request as such. It's a five-party request. It is therefore likely to be voted accordingly. I would just like to question something: the relationship between cycling and CO2 balance and climate change. Graz had a vice-bourgeois champion, Edegger, who made Graz the cycling city of Austria 20 years ago. Many workers also cycle to their workplaces, but Graz has very bad air values. That is to say, one must also question whether this can really be linked.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28712	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28734	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speakers addressed it: It is a great commitment to tourism – I am particularly pleased to be a touristist – especially across all groups. I would like to thank the Ministers responsible and the Minister and, above all, the Minister for Tourism and their staff for their good cooperation. Sadly, however, I cannot see this commitment to the Federal Chancellor. He has cancelled the Europe Forum Alpbach – cancellation fee 50 000 €. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: That's incredible!]] Many journalists don't come. There's no reporting. It is a pity that this forum, initiated by German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel – then still Minister of Economic Affairs – is not continued with the head of state Purtscher. As I have said, from my point of view, not only has economic damage and image damage been caused, but this rejection can hardly be exceeded in the face of embarrassment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28782	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28803	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, I believe that the figures in tourism do not depend on the participation of the Federal Chancellor in Alpbach, but on very different factors. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Rad tourism is a growing factor in the Austrian leisure and tourism sector. This industry cannot be underestimated, especially in a country where the main tourism factor lies on the winter months. All year round tourism is once again given more weight, which means that all year round jobs are secured, especially in rural regions. There are already countless offers for sports and less sportsmen who want to explore the world by bike. In Austria, countless holidaymakers are cycling. Regular offers relate to the planning of the cycle route and the coordination of the cycle route ten routes, including hotel stays and bike rental. The trend is also to ride your own bike and have it in your luggage from the start of your holiday trip. There is certainly a need to catch up, although 55 percent of long-distance trains already have the possibility to take the bike. There are also already working offers for the secondary railways of the ÖBB, during which cyclists can ride their bike by train. In the “Regio-Biking” trains of the ÖBB, the S-Bahn and the region S-Bahns, bicycles can be taken along. A positive example of cycling tourism is the Pinzgau local railway, where from the beginning cyclists were included, the bike ride was always positive and cyclists were taken to the starting point of the 270 km long route of the Tauernradweg. In the interests of human health and a healthy environment, I welcome the fact that this tourist segment is now the focus and is set on a positive development in rail-rad tourism across parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28854	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28876	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! To clarify: The European Forum should have been held in Lech am Arlberg, and it is a pity that it has been cancelled. Austria is a tourist country, and it has become much more important to cycling in recent years than before. This shows that every fifth summer tourist has his bike or his mountain bike. However, this also shows that in Vorarlberg, for example, the value added from cycling tourism or from the bicycle industry is more than € 53 million. Thus, the ÖBB are now required to cooperate with the Austrian tourism industry. Offers are to be made. The holidayers are to be brought back from home to their holiday destination and again. This means, for example, that it should also be possible to book online and that the booking for sleeping weights or for cycling is made easily online. We must continue to invest in quality, because the one who invests in quality will have the nose in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28912	Next speaker: Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28933	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Measures to optimize cooperation tourism/ÖBB – in the focus on bicycle tourism – are to be considered extremely positive for several reasons. All previous speakers have praised the benefits of bicycle tourism. They also pointed out that the ÖBB is now ready to have 55 percent of the trains for the bicycle tourist in the offer and thus also give the opportunity to travel by train accordingly. We all believe that cycling offers absolute benefits, both in a health sense and in a climate-technical sense. This also reduces the consumption in the road sector. It is therefore necessary to ensure all support for cycling, but also to increase according to cycling tourism. It is today about supporting this ÖBB cooperation, and therefore there is all support in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28963	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e28984	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In fact, everything has already been said about optimizing tourism/ÖBB cooperation. As far as cycling is concerned, I would like to focus on the countries and communities. In the country of Lower Austria, we have used the Leihrad and Freirad action to stretch over all regions a network in which this tourism area is offered or stimulated. Now it is about optimizing this range of offers. If you look at Austria compared to Switzerland, you can see: In Switzerland, 32 percent of tourists travel by rail; there is still a lot to do. I am very optimistic that we will succeed in cooperation with the ÖBB, the federal government, the countries and the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29011	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29033	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Minister! Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti, perhaps I can lift your bad mood a little bit later, if I remind you that the Tourism Committee exists on the initiative of SPÖ. The fact that the Tourism Committee is very important shows, among other things, this five-party proposal, which I am very pleased with, as I do not wish to hide. I would like to draw attention to one point which has not yet been drawn to in the debate: What is important for a vacationer to choose a holiday destination? The availability of the choice is important: How to reach the holiday destination? – We all know that if we are in storage for hours on arrival and especially on departure, this is more a decision-making criterion for not choosing this destination anymore. I am convinced that, on the initiative of our minister, more tourists will be brought to the rails. Thank you, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29063	Mrs Bures has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29084	Madam President. High house! I am actually present at these agenda items today in representation of the Minister of Economic Affairs and his Secretary of State. But I have also taken over this task because it is a sign of good cooperation that we have in this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have not only a good cooperation with regard to the tourism industry and the Austrian Federal Railways, which have been praised by all the political groups, which is why, as I have said, I have also taken over the nightly date for my two government colleagues, but we also have a good cooperation with regard to our practices. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot of course know, the procedure in the government has been discussed. The decision regarding the meeting in Lech has been taken in close consultation with your Foreign Minister. We also discussed this at the government meeting. – It may be a comfort to you: I'm going to spend a walking week in Lech this summer. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29120	Next speaker: Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29141	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers mentioned it: This request is important for Austrian tourism, and I am also saying this in my capacity as chairman of the East Styria and East Styrian Thermenland Tourism Association. We thank God in Styria for a well-developed network of cycle paths, which is very attractive to tourism and is also supported by our department of the state and, above all, by state captain-representative Hermann Schützenhofer. To attract this network even further by also making the ÖBB attractive offers in terms of the bike take-away or, of course, also on the clocking, is necessary in order to be able to market this tourist offer even better for the Styria, especially for the Oststeiermark. That is why we can only welcome this request and support it in this sense, and we also hope that it will find its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29171	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29193	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The general agreement of the Tourism Committee on this request already shows the willingness to go new ways for tourism. A study carried out last year by the Federal Environment Agency on Alpine Tourism in Austria shows that only every tenth tourist arrives by train. The national and international railways in 13 Austrian Alpine regions were analysed. Study authors recommend intensive cooperation between tourism and transport management at regional and international level. Measures are recommended at national and international level and are now to be taken. In this context, great mobility is particularly important. The offer of mobility was one of the key points required in this study. An expansion of bus and railway lines in the regions is an important step in this direction. In the context of increasing, diverse mobility, railway stations play a very important role. Railway stations are today mobility hubs where we can link a transport, such as the bicycle, to the use of the train. This possibility should be offered, and the initiatives to expand railway stations are therefore particularly important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29229	Mr Mag. Kuzdas is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29250	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The tourism and leisure industry has grown through the last difficult year, but still survived very well. We need, I believe, not to worry about those areas of tourism that constantly renew, improve and set impulses. Other regions, I think, have not yet understood how to adapt to the challenges, have not yet understood that the businesses that have to network destinations, because a single one is too weak to bring high numbers of tourists. Therefore, sustainability and networking are needed in these areas. For example, it makes no sense to bring a national exhibition somewhere, and when it is over, only ruins and frustrated investors remain. Cooperation between the tourism industry and the ÖBB is particularly important because it promotes gentle tourism; public transport plays a special role in this respect. It is particularly important in developing areas that all offers are combined into a total work of art, so to speak, and that cultural, culinary, gastronomic, landscaped or sporting attractions are connected and connected to a whole. That's important. It is clear to all of us that not every region can become a tourist stronghold, but every region has its qualities, and we must show it to the visitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29284	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29305	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a Vorarlberger, I should like to point out a special aspect, but our neighbouring country Switzerland is really a pioneer in the area of public transport, the development of tourism and public transport. It is a great concern to me, especially in the field of educational institutions, to ensure that, when classes travel on Vienna-week, on school ski courses, public transport is increasingly used. I know there are concrete starting points to also network with the SCHULcard, train and bus. I believe that promoting these things is important, because only if we start the lever on the coming generations and teach them these things will they continue to benefit from increased public transport in the future, if they are later on travelling as tourists. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29332	Mr Linder is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29356	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It wouldn't be the Gabi Obernoster if he didn't light up a little bit and dance. – Dear Gabi, no one has shot me out. The only shooting is currently taking place in the ÖVP in Carinthia: Pacher against Martinz. And I think that's really a shooting. Next: I would have liked to have done so, and FPÖ has also nominated me in committee, but unfortunately it has not approved the Rules of Procedure. I am convinced that I still have more say in the FPÖ than you will ever get in your ÖVP, dear Gabi. That's what I'm convinced of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The commonness in our committee was and really is given. We have not been disturbed, either, if Mr Obernosterer has sold common proposals and joint decisions as his own, because we have simply believed in the matter and will continue to believe in the matter. Gabi, you can sell things for yourself for a long time. It is important that we bring together common applications for tourism and set common goals, and it would be nice if these joint decisions were also implemented by the government. Perhaps you will succeed, Mrs. Minister, that you will take up the subject of cycling on the track and it will be implemented by the ÖBB. For one thing, I thank you, dear Roman Haider, for the subject of liability, because the subject of liability and the requirement of the insurance companies meets us extremely seriously. We are getting more and more difficult to get hiking trails, bike paths and the like, getting approvals from the property owners, as the liability issues are becoming more critical and, above all, the liability insurance, the private insurance claims to the roadkeepers over and over again. I think it would be good for us to think together in the Tourism Committee on this subject and to find a solution that we can take back the liability, take part of this risk of liability to the owners, so that the nature and landscape for tourism, for sport, for the leisure industry can continue to be kept free. Perhaps this will be the next topic in the Tourism Committee so that we can continue to make our landscape available to tourism – a topic for the next Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29411	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no need for a final word on the part of the reporting. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 629 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 85.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Haider, colleagues with regard to year-round use of the trail for cyclists. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[23:22:21]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 971/A(E) by Mr Mag. Heidemarie Inlander, colleagues and colleagues on free admission to museums (613 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29477	We arrive at the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29505	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Hiobs messages from the museum scene do not tear off, as we all know. In the Albertina it swims away almost the world-wide unique graphic collection. In the Leopold Museum, the window frames are wasted, and the windows are narrow, you already have to clear the pictures. [[Abg. May. Rudas: Mrs Minister, do nice weather!]] – Yes, if you think that this was the reason for the Albertina that it rained, then unfortunately I have to react to it, because then you have no idea what really happened in the Albertina! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Volkskundemuseum crumbles in front of itself, the museums give their treasures, and no one knows where to go. The Court of Auditors has revealed this. And with the blessing of the ÖVP, the district leader Stenzel, the museum temple Secession is transformed into a puff, and – you may forgive me something of such an expression – you can either join or watch in the “Rudelpudern”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, this is simply a shame, not only the last story I have mentioned now, but the museums should be the pride of our nation – I like to accept the call for order – but they are the great institutions to preserve our cultural heritage. [[Abg. Rädler: That's an order call!]] Therefore, an efficient subsidy policy is of great importance. Free entry for young people under the age of 19 in museums is great and of course acceptable. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! They know that we liberals have always emphasized the cooperation of education and cultural policy in particular, but it has turned out over time that the €3.5 million for free entry, which will cost the whole, has not been made available with a special budget, that it has not been negotiated with the Minister for Finance, but that these funds should be combated from the operating budget. And this money – Mrs Minister, you know that – is missing from the museums. Now the directors have to break their heads about where they can save the money, because the increase in the basic subsidy has nothing to do with it; some of the SPÖ's colleagues in the committee have said that. This has nothing to do with it, because this increase in the basic subsidy covers the staff costs that have now increased, and I think you all know that. That is to say, with our request today, we would like to point out that the free entry of young people is narrowing the budget, and that, I would say, is already a shame if there is a negative committee report, because the rejection of our request means that we recognize the importance of museums in our country. Now I have to come to another topic, to another disgrace, namely the disregard of the National Museum in Schönborn Palace in the 8th century. District. They all know that there is a truly great, comprehensive collection that represents the history of our country, including the period of the monarchy – that is, there are also the chandeliers –, documented and scientifically edited – and thus also a single source for our own Austrian identity. For years the future fate of this museum has been in a state of suspended state. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also sorry that one now comes to the idea and praises this as a great idea that one would like to join the two museums, namely the Volkskundemuseum and the Volkskundemuseum. This is therefore a paradox, because of course the two museums have quite different tasks to perform. Only the names express this: The Volkskundemuseum, of course, deals with the great cultural developments of other cultures, other peoples – and the Volkskundemuseum, even there it says the word, of course takes care of our own folk art and is therefore very important for our own identity. That is why we believe that this idea of bringing together is an attack on our own identity. Obviously, this is where a battleship of the multicultural society is to be created. The Greens also say – I have already said this in committee – that there should be a centre against xenophobia and racism. After all, the fun really ceases, because with it our history and our identity are wasted, simply wiped away and are melted into a large melting pot of the peoples. That is, the idea of the merger is a hard fight against – as I see you there – the old-eighty-eight and the old Marxists. They now pick out their dusty ideologies and want to install a multicultural society with the vehicle museum-new. This has nothing to do with future cultural policy – Mrs Minister, I now turn to you to think about it again – but it is really an attack on our very own cultural heritage. I think everyone now feels this: With this combination one wants to break the people from their own roots, and we are very sensitive in this respect and will repeatedly speak against it. Apparently we are the only ones here in the house who hold their own identity high. [[Abg. Petzner: We also from BZÖ!]] – I don’t think you’re so different at all. I don't think you should make fun of it. We seem to be really the only party to do this, and our maximum is – and I will repeat it all the time: The preservation of our identity is the subject of our conscience. That is why we are putting forward the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29598	The motion for a resolution just read has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29670	I won't give you a call for order. I regard the fallen expressions as “artic freedom”. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The next item is Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29700	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I only have a minute's speaking time and therefore I would like to keep myself brief. I only quote Stella Rollig in her foreword to the 2010 Lentos programme, on your excitement to the Secession and on your construction of an “attack on our identities”. She says – quote –: If it wasn't for the museum, you'd have to invent it for you. - She doesn't mean you now, but that's what it says. – The museum is an incomparable place, it is full of beautiful things without having to buy anything. It allows to deal with the stranger without fear and reservations. It leaves you peace when you need peace and it challenges you without you being able to fail. It makes you happy, and it may excite you. You do not have to agree to everything, you do not need to justify the contradiction. They meet at vibrating present and lower lote in the past. Any search movement is permitted. All this enables art in all its diversity, and if you need it, it gives comfort. - Stella Rollig. Come to the museum, there would be no more beautiful reason for a free entry, for the nature of the museums and for why museums can at least be open to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29731	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29752	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In contrast to other committees, the Committee on Culture is characterised by the fact that common initiatives can be implemented across party borders in the sense of Austria. This is also the case today in the case of a joint motion for a resolution made during today's plenary session between the SPÖ, the ÖVP, the Greens and the BZÖ, in which we are committed to ensuring and taking place free entry for children and young people until 19 years into the Austrian Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library in the future. The Federal Minister is asked to present an evaluation report on the previous attempt and then to take the further steps to ensure free entry in the future. I think that's a real, smart approach. Carinthia has also been a pioneer in this regard. Carinthia is the first federal country to enter this free entry for children and young people in the form of the cultural passport that exists in the Federal State of Carinthia. ................................................................................................................................................................ This might be a model that the Federal Government should also look at, because it is also worth implementing. – That is what we are joining, as I have said, on this request. Secondly, Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Sites concerning the preservation of the Volkskundemuseum in Vienna. . I believe that Mrs. Collaborator Ungetter is right in her argument in so far as it would be wrong to bring together the Museum of National History with the Volkskundemuseum. Apples would be mixed with pears. I think that especially in today's time, in which many young people, but also others, ask the question of identity, or don't know where to go, where they should go, is also a folklore museum of vital importance for the identity of this country and education, and therefore this combination of the National History Museum and the National History Museum would be anything but right. Therefore, the FPÖ's intentions are to strengthen and promote first the regional culture that supports its own identity, the right approach, which is why we can also join this request by FPÖ, the cultural spokesperson Mr Unterlander. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29788	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29810	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The following must be said about Mrs Unterlander's request for additional budgeting and additional resources for free entry: Towards the end of the budget negotiations and also in the presentation of the basic fee for the Federal Museums, we were assured by the Federal Ministry that first of all the directors took this decision and secondly, these €3 million, which are used for free entry, are anyway an additional budget that has been added to the basic fee. You can now take this into account, believe it or not. The fact is that – the colleague from SPÖ will make a request anyway – we will ask ourselves whether this has brought something to young people or not in the sense of art and cultural mediation. There will be an evaluation, and if it turns out that this does not bring the necessary or hoped-for success, action will be taken. I'm glad that all the parties see it that way. I think we have important things to discuss or lead to, especially as regards the museum landscape, such as the framework agreements. That even criticizes the Court of Auditors. This has long been necessary because it simply requires a clarification of the cultural policy mission. As far as additional investments in art and culture are concerned, I would like to point out – we have heard from the Federal Minister's Committee – the investments that are being made in addition. The Federal Minister has mentioned three projects, through the support of the Minister of Finance, of course: the Chamber of Art, the Zwanzgerhaus and the Literary Museum. Some important things are still on the table: the deep memory, the folklore and folklore museum. A sentence is allowed: If someone believes that his own identity is threatened by dealing with other cultures, I can only say, noblely, that is wrong. I'm sorry you're afraid of such things. I would resist that it would be a very good idea to attack a house of cultures.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29852	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29873	Madam President. Minister! We also welcome the free entry for young people in the Federal Museums since the beginning of the year, although we give one thing to consider: The small regional museums will suffer if there is free entry. They are partly financed by admission, including staff costs. I would be sorry if it would be a museum death in the regions, the so-called home houses. We must be careful not to move everything into the big cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29898	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29919	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have been in Parliament for at least as long as I am for five years, for free entry into the Federal Museums, for all. Now, since this year, there is the opportunity for all who are under 19 years old to visit the federal museums on free admission. I wonder, honestly: Why up to 19 years old? No one has yet explained this to me; the maturity is actually given at the age of 18 years. - But it was like it was. The Federal Museums also receive a corresponding fee for the withdrawal of admission fees. That, Mrs. Unterterlander, means your thinking is down. On the contrary, I would even say that they get too much – I have already told you, Mrs Federal Minister – because the family cards have remained equally expensive. This is very interesting, because which children – if you already say so – or young people go to the museum without parents? They usually go with the parents, and that is, with the family card they pay the same thing as a family. But the museums told the Ministry that the children should be billed separately, so to speak, and that they did. That means that the museums actually get more than it would be necessary. This money could be saved in the future and saved at least for the museum of folklore within the meaning of a house of cultures, because for many years, I have been trying to say for almost decades, work is being done on the renovation of the Museum of Art – with many millions of euros – and it is not locked up. This is a shame for Austria, and I believe that there would be an urgent need for action. Just as there is an urgent need for action in another case. One thing is interesting: The Committee rejects a request from Mr Unterlander – rightly because he was completely out of the air and was not at all appropriate at all; then he is being negotiated here in plenary, but he needs to be negotiated, but to reform the Salzburg Festival, for which we have made a request in the committee, that is being postponed. This would really be an urgent need for cultural policy. We are not going to leave this issue out because we have become stuck in the meantime. I am convinced that what has now been presented by the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors is not even the tip of the iceberg, but that this iceberg now needs to be gradually opened out. I am also convinced that the need for action on the part of your ministry, Mrs Minister, but also of Parliament, is very urgent, because it is really happening there, I can tell you that. We're on it, we're on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29967	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e29989	High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to underline what the previous speaker from the Green Group has said here, namely that, in connection with the Salzburg Festival, with the abuses and the mismanagement that have occurred there in recent months, there is indeed an acute need for action – above all, there is an urgent need for a reform. Not only on the criminal level, where information is now required, is this need for action given, but the Salzburg Festival is the cultural institution that gets one of the highest pieces of the cultural budget; and this subsidy to the Salzburg Festival has been shown to be misused. On the subject, I would like to say that any initiative that facilitates free and cost-effective access to museums and institutions of culture, especially with regard to young people, can be supported. Since there is also the monetary question and the request for free entry into the room, I would like to point out that the museums and cultural institutions do not define how much money they spend through entrances. They define the number of visitors, exhibitions, the quality of the Dark bidder – and we should discuss it. We know that especially in your budget, Mrs. Federal Minister, the Federal Museums get the biggest pieces of financial grants. We know that the number of visitors is falling. That is, we have to consider how we justify these figures, how we justify the subsidies, and how we have to consider how we can inspire young people, especially with interesting exhibitions, but above all with the possibility of cost-effective and free entry for museums, for culture, for history. However, I would also like to point out that it can not only be the youth who should be facilitated by access to culture, to art. There are socially needy people in Austria who are interested in culture and for whom an entrance of €5 or €10 is a brake threshold to go to a museum, to a cultural establishment. We have implemented a model in Carinthia – the colleague Petzner has already referred to it – a so-called cultural passport. This enables socially needy people to visit the country's cultural institutions free of charge, whether they are pensioners with low income or social assistance. Why? Because these cultural institutions receive high subsidies, high financial grants from the taxpayer, and that is why they should... – If there is any such subsidies in Salzburg, that is to be welcomed. [[Abg. May. Worm: There has been this for a long time in Salzburg and Vienna!]] We are discussing yes, it has not only Carinthia good ideas, there are also other federal states. That is, where it already works, we can record these suggestions. In this sense – Mrs. Federal Minister, the German Federal Government’s representatives –: If you are closer to this demand, look at the models that are already successful at regional levels, and do not always hang up everything in the monetary sector – but look at the number of visitors in the local museums raised by opening the doors.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30025	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30047	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to comment briefly on free entry into museums. As you know, we've had it since 1. January 2010 – of course also due to the basic fee we have increased by € 8.5 million – this free entry until the age of 19 is financed. The free entry, Mr Zinggl, is, of course, also a question of financing, especially if we are thinking of an extension of the age limit. So financing and card prices are directly linked. Last week we had a conference with the directors of the Federal Museums, which gave first reports about the first weeks and months. These show a gratifying increase in the number of visitors, and I will of course draw up a comprehensive report on the development of the number of visitors, but of course also on the use of the mediation programmes and mediation activities – also as a basis for the further process. With regard to the claim made by you, Mr Strutz, that there was evidence of misuse of funding at the Salzburg Festival, I must tell you that there are no facts and facts in this respect. The audit report of the audit firm Audit Services Austria, which is now being discussed and discussed by the board of trustees, clearly points to the criminal actions of an individual. The board of trustees has decided to carry out further tests. This is the state of affairs at the Salzburg Festival. On behalf of the honourable Member, Mr Unterlander, on the Volkskundemuseum: The concept now present was presented by the Volkskundemuseum and the Volkskundemuseum, it is a rough concept. I have commissioned further detailed work and can only follow Mrs Fuhrmann's statement that the debate with the foreigner requires me-strength and identity, and in that sense it is not either or not, but rather both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30086	Mrs Mag. Muttons now speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30149	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I would like to congratulate you that we now have free entry for young people up to 19 years in the museums. This made an important step towards the continued participation of the population in cultural diversity. We all know that cultural preferences are very early in childhood. The conciliation offensive that has been launched is also very important. I would like to take a brief look at the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Unterlander. We will reject him, because, as Mrs. Minister said, both museums, the Volkskundemuseum and the Volkskundemuseum, together have presented a very dedicated concept for a museum that provides a merger – a concept that opens the look for a modern museum of cultures. Short to the identity: Mrs Unterlander and Mr Petzner, identity arises in the discussion with the stranger, the other, the new one. But that does not mean to reject, but rather to perceive and learn from it. Identity does not mean to remain the same and to stone over the centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30185	Mr Höfinger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30206	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! I think that is basically free entry until the 19th century. A very welcome initiative, on which we also stand and which we support, because the population, especially the youth, should really feel culture. She should see it, she should understand it, also the story behind it. I think it is an important basis for the development of each individual person to deal with the culture and the whole of our development. I also think the way is marked. We will see what results from the evaluation in one year, and this will also be the basis for the further development of this initiative. The financial approaches have also been made. Perhaps one of my colleagues, to her comment on the Secession and the allusion to what you can do there: I can tell you, I'm not going either. I prefer to drive to the Old Danube, take my dog with me, and go rowing with my “puddle. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30236	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30258	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! The free entry into the Federal Museums is a major concern for all of us, which has now been seen in the debate. The objectives behind it are clear that a large part of the population is allowed to participate in our cultural work, on the one hand, and above all, that there are new offers for cultural communication. Our Lady Minister represented and implemented this with Vehemenz. Thank you very much for this, Mrs. Minister, and also for having a higher basic salary! That's a good step. ==References== In January 2010 there is this possibility of free entry for young people until 19. Year of life. I shall now put forward the motion for a resolution which has been tabled a few times: ‘The National Council decided: The Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture is asked to give the National Council an evaluation by May 2011 of the first year of the initiative ‘free admission’ for children and young people up to 19 years’ to the Austrian Federal Museums and the Austrian Museums To provide rich National Library with further measures to increase the participation of children and young people. In particular, it will address the accompanying mediation programmes and their use, such as in regional terms.’ I'm asking for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30308	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30369	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30393	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! The remaining short speaking time is not enough to cross the cultural sounds again with Mrs Unterlander. That would also overestimate them. But one word still: They are once again intimidating the fears in the aggregation of the Volkskundemuseum and Volkskundemuseum. These are the fears of your own. We are not afraid to deal with foreign cultures and to enter into a positive dialogue. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: How many times have you been to the Museum of Art?]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this milestone of cultural policy, with the free entry into the museums for children and young people, we also send a signal. I would like to pass this signal on as a teacher to the pedagogical community. I would like to call on all my colleagues to take advantage of the opportunity to take advantage of this museum educational opportunity, to visit the museums with the children and to carry out this cultural commission. Exchange the classroom with the museum for a few hours and enrich the cultural and educational work in our country! In this sense: Thank you very much! We will be able to look forward to this evaluation because this offer is certainly accepted. Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30429	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Culture, its report 613 of the supplements... – Are there still distributions that are now necessary? [[A Member of Parliament is on the way to the distribution of an application text between the series of seats.]] Otherwise, I would ask: after the votes! We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 613 of the supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Sites, colleagues and colleagues on the preservation of the Museum of Folks in Vienna. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ablinger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Fuhrmann, Dr. Zinggl, Petzner, colleagues on free entry for children and young people up to 19 years into the Austrian Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 86.) [[23:56:16]] 25. Point Election of a member and a replacement member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30509	We arrive at the 25th. Agenda item. There are nominations of the political groups for a member and a replacement member. As a member, Member Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen and as replacement member of Member Christoph Hagen will be elected. Since there is therefore an election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the electoral proposal which I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. In this way, the election of a member and a replacement member has been carried out in the Council of Europe's parliamentary assembly. [[23:57:16]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30569	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigative committee for the further examination of political and legal responsibilities in connection with the “establishment of black money accounts, lubricating payments and misappropriation of public funding by officials of the Austrian Olympic Committee”. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30740	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time in this debate for each five minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Comments from members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. First speaker: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30768	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! When we heard the first machinations in the Austrian Olympic Committee in 2007, when between the Salzburg Winterspiele 2014 GmbH and the Olympia-Förderverein I had nothing to do with you, nothing a few hundred thousand euros of funding money between red politicians and red politicians, and 150 000 € simply nothing to me, nothing has disappeared from you and has not yet appeared, we have filed a fine at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Salzburg. At the time, we could not imagine that this is actually only the tip of the iceberg in this scandal around the ÖOC – I am very glad that Mr Wittmann is also sitting here – a scandal that has now reached a dimension that has been historically unique in sports policy, which can be said so far, not least because of the fact that in this Austrian Olympic Committee next to President Leo Wallner, at that time also prominent politicians have been sitting – or still sitting – as the former SPÖ member to the National Councillor Arnold Grabner, President of the ASKÖ, the National Councilman Peter Haubner, who is sitting in front of me, or the National Councilman Peter Wittmann, who is sitting in front of me – wonderfully mixes everything red-black! [[Abg. Grosz: Grand Coalitionary Packaging!]] In addition, the Board of Directors of the Austrian Olympic Committee buys: none other than Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Norbert Darabos, red, Mag. Anna-Maria Hochhauser, Secretary General of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, black, and again Peter Wittmann, President of the ASKÖ, red. He's been sitting in it twice, that's wonderful, he's sitting in it all over. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But what happened in the times when these Red and Black politicians were sitting in this committee – which they all want to know nothing about today – is really a unique scandal in Austrian sports history, ladies and gentlemen! It has now become known with an internal test report of May 2009, and all of this is simmering, all the way through. The report will not be published. To date, he has not been published, but he is familiar with everything that has happened there, which is what make-ups, which are partially relevant to criminal law – otherwise the prosecutor's office in Salzburg would not determine because of our ad – but also political machinations in this Austrian Olympic Committee have gone through the stage. It has now become known that black money accounts have appeared. You have to imagine this: There are promotions of hundreds of thousands of euros for the orientation of Olympic games. And what do these “honorful” gentlemen do in the Austrian Olympic Committee? They – the then managing director, he is no longer the one – set up a black money account. No one knows anything about it anymore, no one wants to know about it, nor does Mr Wittmann, Mr Haubner not, Mr Darabos, he is now at the head of the Enlightenment. But payments through these Black Money accounts have actually been made, as has now become known. The “Kronen Zeitung” writes wonderfully on a double page – “Olympia in Flames” – how it all happened there: Black money accounts amounting to € 3 million, high amounts in cash were removed by messenger service. The man with the suitcase, we still know that from the seventies and eighties. The sports staff already know who that was at the time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Rabelbauer!]] - Rabelbauer, yes. It's all back today. The accusations in the room about how the money was misguided are enormous. This is what the media write – not only the “Kronen Zeitung”, but all the Austrian sports media across the bank. Opponents were made fit with lubrication and also silences. Expensive OOOC cars have been purchased and given to the functionalists easily. You have to imagine this: The AUA, our airline, was a sponsor of the Austrian Olympic Committee and has provided the ÖOC with free flights. Do you know what happened there? – One has charged the free flights that one has received over this black money account with business class tickets in order to manage the money. [[Abg. Grosz: Unmistakable!]] These are the machinations in the Austrian Olympic Committee! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Fees were charged double and triple. As far as travel is concerned, I would ask you, Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Wittmann, to ask your ex-College Grabner who then paid for his travels. – Not him, not you from SPÖ, but the Austrian taxpayer with the funding of the Austrian Olympic Committee – the trips of your colleague Grabner! [[Abg. Grosz: Pfui! Incredible!]] This is the physically opulent gentleman, who has always progressed at the openings, very important, always immediately behind the flag bearer: Mr. Grabner. The “Kurier” has allowed itself – very interesting! – to ask Mr Grabner, and asked him, how is that, in connection with his travels in connection with Olympia, in the amount of hundreds of thousands of euros over many, many years? That's where they caught Mr. Grabner! Quote Grabner: “No, no, no, no,” – four times “no”! – “I am in a session, calling S'at me again tomorrow!" Then the Kurier writes: ‘Tags after that, Grabner was no longer accessible.’ He has been submerged to this day, Mr. “Noldi” Grabner, a “wonderful” sports officer who has obviously enriched himself from the resources of the ÖOC – from public funds, from funding funds – and has paid for his trips to the Olympic Games and his privileges. “Wonderful” sports functionaries – a scandal special, and you look away, Mr Wittmann! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Actually, that's incredible, but it's going on. [[Call BZÖ:SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Grosz: They don't pay taxes in Styria!]] It goes on: The public funds have also changed over this black money account. The International Olympic Committee – you have to imagine that! – paid training courses for the Austrians because they had not yet been trained. They thought: We need to train the Austrians. I do not know if you were on such a course, Mr Wittmann or Mr Haubner. Maybe you were there too. We pay you training courses in Asia and Africa, the OOC has said, go, continue to form! What happened? – These free education courses were suddenly calculated via the Black Money Account, namely with the Austrian funding funds. These courses, which had been given by the International Olympic Committee, were charged by the Austrian Committee with funding, twice and triple over black money accounts and through the Spesenkont. This is an incredible scandal, what happened to public money here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Now the highlight is coming! The highlight is that: The evidence was submitted to the Federal Chancellery by the ÖOC. Do you know what the Federal Chancellery did? – The Federal Chancellery has given the stamp to all seriously: Tested and found in order. But exactly these documents, which have been taken over by the Federal Chancellor's Office, which have been stamped from there as audited and found in order, have also been charged through this black money account! That is to say, the Federal Chancellor must also speak and answer why he found all of this to be examined, but in reality, about black money accounts – Mr. Matznetter, look at this – money has been billed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This is an incredible scandal that screams for clarification and political responsibility. In no other case was an investigation committee as justified as in this case a red and black scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] In addition, this Austrian Olympic Committee itself controls itself. There are two control committees: the Control Committee and the Control Commission. The Control Committee shall be appointed by ASKÖ, ASVÖ, SPORTUNION, ÖFB and BSO. The control committee is set up by ASKÖ, ASVÖ, SPORTUNION, ÖFB and BSO. And do you know how the EOC is occupied? – From ASKÖ, ASVÖ, SPORTUNION, ÖFB and BSO! Ladies and gentlemen! That means nothing but that promoters, promoters, promoters and the award control of funding in personnel union are in the hands of the same persons! There's nowhere else in the world. This is a evident scandal that needs to be clarified, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is incredible, and that is why we want this committee of inquiry. Mr Wittmann and Mr Haubner, I promise you that if you vote with a large-scale majority today, I will immediately convene a sports committee meeting as chairman of the Sports Committee and make use of any business regulation option. We will then clarify this scandal in the Sports Committee. But it can't be that millions of euros from public funds are being misused in order to turn your privileged sports staff into revenge to pay off travel and training, cars, flights and fees. This is a scandal, and this is a disgrace for Austrian sports policy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30920	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e30941	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is everything all right anyway, right?]] I would like to remind you that the Minister of Sports, since he is in office as Minister of Sports, has also been sitting in this body with an advisory voice and has already clearly shown that there are various things... – With consulting voice, you should know, colleague Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's sitting in there himself!]] Since then, he has started to show various things, and from the outset he has also called for the disclosure of funding, you know it very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The Ministry of Sports has also announced that a review will take place immediately as soon as the facts are finally on the table. They themselves know that at the moment x examinations are taking place – the prosecutor's office determines, facts are on the table – that it is immediately examined whether recovery of the funding is possible. If that is possible, this will be reclaimed by the ministry. All transactions relating to the Salzburg Olympic application have already been checked by the Public Prosecutor's Office and are under review. So everything's in motion. The Court of Auditors' criticism is taken into account, in particular in this debate process on the reform of sport promotion, which aims to improve transparency, control and support for needs. All of this is taken into account. The Minister of Sports is very much concerned that this is carried out intensively, and high-quality contributions – especially for the Member of Parliament Grosz – are desired by all parliamentary parties and welcome by all sports experts. Ladies and gentlemen, in all clarity: The SPÖ and also me personally, we are for a complete investigation without apologies and for hard consequences for all those who have charged guilt – whether they have been in the old board or sitting on the new board. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ]] Dear friends, flicker Don't move around with your hand! That doesn't look good, Mr. Petzner. No matter what connections existed, ropes or others, everything that has to do with these scandalous processes, even if someone has only looked away or has been affected by a spontaneous Alzheimer's disease – everything has to be properly exposed and consequences have to be drawn! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the BZÖ:Most red ropes! ... in the Styria!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Who's in the bodies?- Oh, my God!]] Please don't forget, gentlemen. Now you're so loud to speak, the OOC is a private club. I mean, here in the House we have more important things to decide, discuss and implement in the interests of the citizens than a private association to review by an investigation committee. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's about public funds!]] – Yes, it’s all right, the prosecutor’s office determines, the courts or the authorities determine. We have confidence in the authorities. You obviously did not, but you already had relatively often contact problems with the authorities. We don't have any problems with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] We trust in the authorities. You are now on the train, the careful processing is in the hands of the authorities. That is why a committee of inquiry is not currently in question for the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this item is taking place at a later hour today, but it is not too late to take advantage of the opportunity to do something positive. From here, I would like to congratulate the Paralympic Team on the SPÖ Club quite cordially on the great success in Canada: 11 Medals, ladies and gentlemen, of 19 athletes, of 19 wonderful ambassadors of Austrian warmth and exceptional sports spirit, example and hope for people with physical impairments to be able to do unique things even with their fateful life stories! They were accompanied by a dedicated and excellent organization and caretaker staff and a MODUL team in the Austrian House, which embodied lively Austrian hospitality and comfort. These people, ladies and gentlemen, have a right to a sincere and warm thanks for their achievements and extraordinary commitment! You especially deserve our full respect and our full attention and support!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31083	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31104	Mr President. High house! Yes, it is very unfortunate and really needs to know what happened in the Austrian Olympic Committee. That's not a question. I do not think it is a pleasure for everyone – and especially for sports, sportsmen and sportsmen – that the flagship of Austrian sport, the Austrian Olympic Committee, has suffered such a miscarriage. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler! You already have to divide that into three parts. The one is the Salzburg Winterspiele 2014 GmbH, the second is the Olympic Funding Association and the third is the Austrian Olympic Committee – three completely separate units. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] - No, that's not quite right. I would like to say: As soon as the first accusations against the General Secretariat and the staff who operated the Malversations appeared in the Austrian Olympic Committee, the Executive Board immediately became active and initiated two external audits, namely the audit of the public funds and the audit of the externally generated funds. A test takes a certain amount of time, all know that. As soon as the first audit results were available in May, the relevant measures were also initiated and the entire documents were handed over to the public prosecutor. After the recasting of the Austrian Olympic Committee, Karl Stoss continued our way – because it was we who requested the examinations. He has continued the way, has initiated further examinations, and only through the prosecutor's office have these secret accounts appeared. You couldn't know these accounts, because a secret account makes sense to be secret, and so people will have made it that it remains secret. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wallner signed everything!]] Now it is important to clarify the responsibilities. That's quite clear, and the court is checking it out. All the documents are at the prosecutor's office, and I think a committee of inquiry now makes no sense in parallel to the examination by the judicial authorities. Instead, we should wait for criminal investigations first and then take any political consequences from them. In this sense, I believe, the state administration is now on the train and at work. We should wait for the results of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31159	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31180	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Tell them how it really was!]] Ladies and gentlemen. To Member of Parliament Krist and, as he says, to the ÖOC private association: A private association, which receives €2.2 million a year and is financed by the public sector to two thirds, is, I think, quite intelligible and should also be a subject here in this House! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr President, I do not think we can simply wipe this out of the table. I give the Westenthaler the right. I also assume that this scandal in this dimension is probably the largest scandal in the history of sports in Austria. I also assume, Mr Haubner, that you are aware of the consequences that were introduced at the time after these first abuses were resolved: Leo Wallner and the entire board have resigned. Now, you're slowly going through what actually happened in this OOC. There were black money accounts – I am not talking about the €150 000 at the beginning, but about the €3 million – where €1.4 million have disappeared and can't be understood at any time. There were large-scale cash withdrawals from messenger services, from drivers and housekeepers who are no longer comprehensible. There was supposed to be media coverage, payments to Members of this House. Well, please, if such a thing is not intelligible, I do not know what the House has the instrument investigation committee for. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Westenthaler has already mentioned this, but I would like to add the following: This mechanism, and this structure, which exists where promoters and control bodies are in reality all the same persons who are the same associations, namely ASVÖ, ASKÖ, BSO, SPORTUNION and the like, and this calls on them to bring about abuses and perhaps also abuses of public money! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I say quite frankly to you: Yeah, it's the biggest scandal in sports history. Yes, there must be information here, and political responsibility must also be clarified here. And the clarification of political responsibility, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the public prosecutor's office that will do this, but we have to do it here in this House, quite neatly, in a U-committee, through which real information and transparency are produced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31234	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31255	Mr President. I begin with the question of how interested the current sports minister is in education. I would like to agree. The problem is just, it doesn't really correspond to reality. It is no wonder that Mr Darabos's response to questions from the Minister of Sport and Minister of Defense was also on the presidential issue, because if you look at them, you can see that this is not only the area of national defence, but also the area of sport. I asked a parliamentary question with 126 detailed questions on the area of EOC abuse. Hermann Krist, if you look at how these questions were answered, then, I think, you will be relatively quick to believe that there is a need for some information, which has not been done. I'm just saying two details. I ask the Minister of Sport whether the sport resort has at least requested this €150 000, of which the Court of Auditors of Salzburg has found that they have disappeared. This has little to do with the question of the prosecutor's office. The Minister of Sport's answer to this question: ‘All transactions [...] are currently being examined by the Public Prosecutor’s Office. I am seeking to understand that I am distanced from a content response.” The question as to whether the public prosecutor was already examining Mr Darabos's Minister of Sport, who, in his responsibility, would be responsible for clarifying whether at least the attempt to recover the funds had been made here was as follows: No, no, no, Next question – even better! –: “Was it given concrete instructions and orders for the Supervisory Board meetings to the representatives of the Federal Chancellery by the competent Sports Minister?” The Sport Minister Darabos' answer: ‘In this context, there is no further information in my department.’ You really have to let that break on the tongue, that the Minister of Sports does not know if he has given instructions or not! If you say that Sports Minister Darabos does everything to get information, you just have to say that this is true of what he has done in answering the parliamentary question. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] The question also arises whether this restructuring in the Austrian Olympic Committee is a restructuring to the extent it should be. It has been mentioned in this context that Karl Stoss, coming from the Casinos Austria, is now making a new set-up and that the ÖOC is obviously broken with the old tradition. – At that time, as the only one, I think, I said very clearly in the direction of Karl Stoss, I think it is a fundamental condition that the cash flows are being clarified by the casinos of Austria as the main sponsor of the OOC before he, Karl Stoss, takes over this function. That is why I would like to ask you: Is there anything that's been cleared up? Is a single payment made by the casinos of Austria to the OOC public and transparent? - Nothing! No payment! There is no transparency as to what has flowed from the main sponsor, the casinos Austria, to the OOC! If it says, that's what's testing the prosecutor's office anyway, I can only say: This is not the case with the prosecutor's office because the amounts are sponsors who don't touch the prosecutor's office. So there is much to be done in the light of information, which you have so far refused, which is why I am going to agree to this request, which I hereby announce. This is probably not going to be a majority today, but I can only say: There are some things that are clear! I would have another question to the people now present in the Austrian Olympic Committee. Do you know Mr Boguslaw Waleskyk? [[Phonetic]] Is he familiar with you? [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It should be known to you, however, because it paid €450 000 in February 2008, on a single day, on a savings book of the Austrian Olympic Committee. This man should actually be known. You can research yourself and try to find out who that is. A small note: The chauffeur of the Jungwirth, who is entitled to draw the accounts of the Austrian Olympic Committee. Plastiksäckerl, money paid, money taken out! The question is, of course, where this money came from and what is there from public sports promotion. This is something that should be really clarified. If apparently people who have nothing to do with the structure were those who have cared for the accounts, then there is really fire on the roof – and it is high time that political responsibility is also clarified. That is why it would be good if you had already agreed today, but you will probably have to agree to this request sometime in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31325	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31346	Mr President. High house! The so-called good people of the EOC have served themselves for years, together with high officials of SPÖ and ÖVP, in a way that I believe is disgusting. Peter Westenthaler and the BZÖ are due to the fact that the whole was finally exposed and yet came into play. Peter Westenthaler has already paid ad in February 2009 to the Public Prosecutor's Office. If you look at the links between the promoters, the promoters and the control bodies, you can only say: That smells – in Tyrolean words – to heaven! It needs to be clarified. In order for these maladministrations to be stopped politically once and for all, it is very important that you confess today and give your consent to the establishment of such a U-committee. If, as you all claim, you have nothing to fear from ÖVP and SPÖ, you will not have to object to any clarification on this matter. These €3 million are only the top of the iceberg, and this personnel union, which exists there between the control bodies and the promoters and beneficiaries, is quite unique. There is no control; the promoter controls himself. To those good people who are responsible for this scandal: This is a band formation that is unique. The EOC Strategy Advisor, Erwin Roth, has found that Leo Wallner was entitled to draw all accounts. Mr Roth also said that the whole thing worked like this: The IOC transfers money to two different EOC accounts. One goes into official accounting, but the second account does not appear in any accounting. Leo Wallner knew everything, all the sports officials of the two major parties have been informed – and the “beautiful” is: Leo Wallner is a member of the IOC's highest audit body and audits his own finances. Ladies and gentlemen, please agree to a committee of inquiry – and do not try to cover something that smells like heaven, because the smell then blows over to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31403	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigative committee. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – It does not find a majority. Rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:26:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-03-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e31443	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications were submitted from 1021/A(E) to 1062/A(E). Questions 4907/J to 4979/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 0.26 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
