ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5934	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 60. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 57 and 58. Meeting of 24. ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 March 1990 On 1 March 2010, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate. Deputies of Spindelberger, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Schenk and Dr. Strutz are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e5965	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Norbert Darabos is represented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures and the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. [[09:06:21]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6010	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Mission in the Church: What does the government do for those affected?" Today's meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. As First of all, Mr Magistrate, is speaking. Steinhauser. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that his speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6040	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Dear Minister of Women! The theme of today's current hour is: “Mission in the” – Roman Catholic – “Church: What does the government do for those affected?" For a few weeks now, public cases of abuse have been discussed in institutions of the Catholic Church. It is probably similar to all of us when we read about these fates. We can probably only imagine what the people concerned had to do. There is also this current hour because the interested parties have asked us to do so because they find the silence of the Federal Government unbearable on this issue. We talked about almost everything. In response, criminal intensifications have been discussed, it has been discussed about prevention. Important and right! However, one has not been discussed: How can we actually help those affected? Ms. Minister of Justice! You've organized a round table. Who wasn't invited? - Those affected. Worse was that the issue of abuse in the Roman Catholic Church, in facilities of the Roman Catholic Church at the Round Table, was not even to be addressed. The Minister of Justice has also organised a round table in Germany. Their access, however, was another one. She said: We don't want to talk about the victims, but we want to talk to them! I am sorry that you, Mrs. Justice Minister, have a completely different access. Ms. Minister of Justice, but it is not just about those concerned from institutions of the Catholic Church. Who believes that abuse is a phenomenon that has only taken place in Catholic institutions that is wrong. There has also been systematic violence in state homes. This will be silenced at all. It seems to me that some would be very happy to hide behind the Catholic Church. But the Federation and the countries are directly responsible for this home, ladies and gentlemen. Here we are called on to take part in the reprocessing process. This is not being debated at all. One step will have to be taken in this regard, I can guarantee you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, our demands are clearly on the table. The first requirement is natural and simple at the same time: Finally, talk to those concerned! Why is that so hard for you? The second requirement is of course also a matter of course if you take international examples: The Federal Government should finally assume responsibility and start direct negotiations with the Roman Catholic Church. These negotiations should focus on the establishment of a victim fund to be fed out of funds of the Catholic Church. Not only do I believe, but I am convinced that the Catholic Church is meeting an increased responsibility, because it has failed systematically and because there has been systematic cover-up. What is certainly not acceptable is the fact that people are now forced into long and difficult procedures, where in the end nothing can come out because the perpetrators are mostly mediocre. I therefore believe that the Catholic Church has an immediate responsibility, and the victim fund would be an answer to this responsibility. It's clear, too: For the compensation of domestic children from state homes, the federal government and countries will have to pay. You won't pass this solution either. Next point, Mrs Justice Minister, would be the establishment of a State Investigation Commission, which examines violence and sexual abuse in church institutions as well as in state homes. I do not think that there is any misunderstanding on a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which would be imaginable, but it should be a technical committee. You said in a first reaction: We don't need another Commission! I then got an e-mail from a person I don't want to keep from you. The person concerned writes: Ladies and gentlemen! The reaction of Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner after the Round Table that one cannot set up a Commission for everyone and everything is a further increase in the abuses. Children are not everyone and everything. No, not for everyone and everything, but for these abusers, an independent Commission is to be set up by the Republic of Austria. A scientific and human reprocessing – this would provide the abusers with an opportunity to get through with me in some way. - So much to everything and everyone. But your reference to the prosecutors, Mrs. Justice Minister, is also going empty. You know that most of the cases we are discussing are delayed – even because the old, short-term rules are still in force. You know the prosecutors can't do anything. Such an investigation commission would also have to carry out a case-by-case examination and then recommend how to help and how to compensate. The prosecutors can't afford that either. We need a committee of inquiry which is comprehensive and interdisciplinary, proactive and non-reactive in preparing the situation in homes and institutions of the Catholic Church. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last request, Mrs. Justice Minister, would be the call for an independent victim hotline. You presented something after the Round Table – I don't want to get too close to you because I want to avoid any polemics today, appropriate to the topic – but it was a little mogel pack, because you said that this should be done by an institution that already exists without getting additional money. - That's certainly too little. Ms. Minister of Justice! In other countries, the Federal Government has acted differently. In Ireland, the government has set up two measures: an independent committee of inquiry, and it has negotiated with the Catholic Church a victim fund of €2.1 billion. There was no need for that much, but it has become active and has set up this victim fund. Germany: There the government also organized a round table with two fields of work. The first topic was prevention, the second was the investigation and reprocessing of the abuse cases. We have discussed prevention in Austria, but we have not discussed the reconnaissance and reprocessing of abuse cases – that was not the topic of your round table. Something else has been done by the German Federal Government. It has set up an independent representative to deal with sexual abuse with the aim of proposing material and immaterial assistance. In Austria? - Misachieved! What's going on is the Klasnic Commission. I would expressly not like to discuss the person Klasnic, but we insist: On the one hand, the Klasnic Commission is certainly not a contact for the home children of state homes, on the other hand, it is a fact that many of the people concerned are suspicious of this Commission. In fact, this Commission only points out one thing: how the Federal Government's commitment is going about. In the absence of the Federal Government's contact person, it had to be given to a person who then completely alone decides who is sitting in this Commission, under which framework conditions are being prepared and what is being prepared. Here it can be seen that the moderation and the organization are going off massively by the Federal Government. But it gets even thicker: I deposited my claims with Cardinal Schönborn, and he answered me in a letter. I can quote a sentence that is not a breach of trust because it is not at its disadvantage. Cardinal Schönborn says: We will be happy to carry out the in-depth exchange you have referred to with the relevant bodies of state law and administration. So let's hold on: In any case, the Cardinal is ready to talk, but the Federal Government has no interest. Minister of Justice, I offer you cooperation across party borders. Let us make an appointment where we sit together with those concerned! Negotiating with the Catholic Church! You would have our support. The questions are clearly on the table: Do you want a State Investigation Commission? Will you use a victim fund? And what are you doing for the home children of state homes? I want you to answer me now, not hear what's not going on, but I want to hear what's going on. I don't want to hear what you've done, but I want to hear what you're gonna do. Madam Minister of Justice, clear text is required today! One could focus on a question. Do you want to help the person concerned: yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6187	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6208	Madam President. Dear Mrs Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Child abuse is a dagger blast in vulnerable child souls, leaving incurable wounds. We are all called for: the state, but also civil society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] This topic is of course a cross-sectional matter. Moreover, I am not the Minister of Justice, but the Minister of Justice, and I will now say a few things about the field of justice. State Secretary Christine Marek and I have called a round table, and it has been criticized that the issue of child abuse has not been reduced or focused on the subject of church. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: Child abuse and violence against children, this is not a purely ecclesial problem, but it is a social problem. And all social forces are called on to fight this problem. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] All those who want to reduce this problem to institutions or to the Church, ladies and gentlemen, create different classes of victims. Why should a victim of the church be treated differently from a victim who has been abused for years by his stepfather or by his father? I say quite clearly to you: Sexual abuse is one of the most disgusting crimes there is, and it really doesn't matter where this sexual abuse happens, it's disgusting, no matter what the perpetrator has committed. Let me quote from a column by Hans Rauscher on the topic “From a Round Table”. He says: “One decided to... seek ways of prevention. May the exercise succeed. The fact is that abuse and abuse continue to occur most frequently in the family, but also in non-Church institutions such as state homes, sports clubs and similar closed groups. ... Not only the Church, but society itself has a problem here.” – Quote. That's the right thing, that's the right statement! Let us now come to the results of the Round Table! – There have been tangible results. I remember: Contact state lawyers shall be established. The ombudsmen of the judiciary are increasingly involved. A Centre for Victim Protection and Legal Care will be set up in the Federal Minister for Justice. In the future, there will be an interministerial expert body to ensure better networking. The “Möwe” hotline has been expanded et cetera, et cetera. – There are tangible results. And, of course, the state also takes care of cases from the past, Mr Steinhauser. Finally, this is the task of the prosecutors, prosecutors and also independent courts. And there are already numerous pending proceedings, including those against members of the Church, because justice does not matter what area the perpetrators come from. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another thing: There is also a contact with the victim officer Waltraud Klasnic. She is also here to work out all the past cases in relation to the Church. Please give this working group or, if you might like to say so, this Commission a chance! We must also work together in this area in the interests of our children in order to prevent abuse in the future. Last Friday I conducted a very detailed and constructive conversation with Cardinal Schönborn. We agreed: There must be no forbearance in the event of child abuse. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Cardinal Schönborn has informed me that all the cases outlined are displayed by the Church, if it wants the victims and if it requires prevention. Of course, there is no need for child abuse in the church, which is quite clear. You're wondering now: What does the state do for the victims of abuse? I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the state is doing a great deal for victims of abuse, just as it does for all the other victims of abuse, not just for victims of church abuse. You all, ladies and gentlemen, have decided last year on the second package of violence. You will remember: Prohibition of activities for sexual offenders, judicial supervision, extension of limitation periods. We have very long limitation periods! The time-limits have been extended, the threats of crime have been increased, a new crime has been introduced. We really have excellent instruments in the fight against sexual abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not the topic!]] We are a pioneer in Europe. After a Council of Europe study, we are even number one in the area of victim protection and in the fight against such offences. We can be proud of this with fug and right. In any case, it is fixed: There must be no forbearance in the area of child abuse, and we must all do something for the victims. That's clear! But money alone cannot heal the mental wounds. For example, we need to raise awareness of our children, our teachers and our kindergartens, and we need to network better. Ladies and gentlemen! Child abuse is a very, very serious issue. This topic is absolutely not suitable for populism. There must be no party policy on the back of victims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sexual abuse of children is a social problem that concerns all of us. Let's look for common solutions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6300	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6324	Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is no question at all that this issue is, of course, absolutely not suitable for politicization. We are all equally responsible in this regard. All the powers of the state, Mrs Bundesminister, have to deal with them accordingly, both in terms of the future and in terms of the past. I think you certainly have to light this up at a round table. It is all our competence to deal with this effectively. Sexual abuse is one thing, and violent education is the other, and I would ask you not to throw it into a pot, but to distinguish it very well. Regrettably, sexual abuse of young people takes place in particular, and the way in which it has been committed in this context often affects for many years not only individuals who are unable to get out of the homes, who are extradivided and who are taken from the future, but also those who are entrusted with the care of the young people, but also the abuse of an authority to a large extent. Of course, this also takes on every future perspective for individuals, because self-confidence is broken and because what people actually make, namely, belief in themselves and others, falls away. Moreover, when these people are grown up, we hear this from scientists, for their part, they become a problem. That is why it is a matter for all, but, of course, for justice, how to deal with these cases. I recognize that Cardinal Schönborn, as one of the few in the Catholic Church, has made a clear commitment to this responsibility from the very beginning. I mean, the treatment of this problem complex should be addressed with all our support! However, I believe that in addition to this Commission, as its chairman, Mrs Klasnic, we need another Commission. In this context, I quote Mr. Rudolf Schermann, the editor of “Kirche In”, a renowned newspaper, and he himself says: I think the order of Mrs. Klasnic is a very unfortunate addition. – It seems to him that this is an attempt to put the whole thing on a safe track. He asks – and I believe that is what must apply to all of us! – that the victims of abuse are heard to be involved, that they are a fixed part of the Commission, and in this way they learn that the State, the public or society accepts its situation. You can't outsource that. You can't privatize it. This is a matter that affects all of us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore also believe that it is very important, whether it is a Commission or a victim lawyer, that we should also discuss with Cardinal. Go on with Schönborn, because I believe that he too acknowledges in a discourse that this Commission contributes to one-sidedness. I do not want to call this negative now, but if the Catholic Church uses the Commission here, of course many victims think that they do not want to go there. They would like to claim to be able to tell someone their story and to open it up. We've seen: Many of the people affected are 40, 50 or 60 years old. It took a long time for them to finally take the courage, partly in public and in part privately to tell their suffering story. This is not easy and simple, since confidentiality must be given, and this device must have, above all, a superior position beyond any suspicion. Mrs Federal Minister for Justice! The round table has certainly offered an opportunity to ensure the future process. But if I consider the consequences for the individual concerned that they can also become perpetrators, then I believe that the main focus of justice must be on this. We have also experienced that there are compensation funds that can provide very efficiently and quickly. It is important to offer therapy here and help people in such a way that they do not become problems for their part. It has to be helped simply and simply, quickly, unbureaucratically and with regard to how the individual wants to do so, publicly or in all his privacy. We have seen that in America there are such victim funds that work very well, and Cardinal Schönborn has also offered to discuss them. I think it is necessary to construct such a victim fund in such a way that it is decided by the 'polluter pays' principle. I believe that the talks will provide a reasonable solution in the sense of the victims and in the sense of the state as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6388	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6410	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try – apart from respecting the legitimate concern regarding compensation for the victims – to go a little deeper. First of all, I would like to express my respect for those who have long found the strength to talk about their injuries. I think that we should also use this situation as an opportunity to hold the discussion in such a way that also those who have not talked about it so far or did not want to talk about it. This breaking, desirable openness must not be shaken by cheap populism, ladies and gentlemen. Much has happened in the past – and a lot is happening. For example, I am thinking of the Children’s Protection Centre for Physical, Psychochic or Sexually Abused Children, which is giving priority to Martina Fassleven, the “Möwe”. We know very well that it is all the more difficult for someone, and the longer it takes to overcome the obstacle of self-confidence, the younger he gets into the trap of abuse and the longer he is abused. Young people need about seven approaches and often several months and years at all to overcome this threshold of the ability to share. Psychotherapeutic treatment and advice is offered in many cases. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on the fact that we can do preventive work on adults, i.e. all of us gathered here and watching television. You don't need a lot of training to do this. It is a “we-responsible”, namely that we strengthen the growing generation in their emotion and that children know that they can trust someone. You need to know that if you do something against their will, they can talk and trust themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, with great satisfaction I have the sermon of Dr. Christoph Schönborn, who has also put this word of the “sacred anger of Jesus” into space: “Whoever this little one” – and Cardinal Schönborn meant the weak ones of a society – “is an nuisance, it would be better to give him a millstone around the neck to sink him into the sea.” I am grateful to the Cardinal for having followed these words and for having found a person with the victim representative Waltraud Klasnic, whom I personally accept and whom I trust to lead this Commission objectively. But it would not be Austria, as a result, would not be expressed equally different suspicions! Waltraud Klasnic is a woman with political experience, who has her active career behind her, but who could probably do something else in the years before her! I spoke to her yesterday evening, and I respect not only her policies in the past, but also her access to it, as it is the basis of every political action, for it is respect for human dignity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Waltraud Klasnic will present a team on Monday, in which different denominations and no confessions are represented, which is open to everyone. The state is not silent, Mr Steinhauser! The Federal Minister made it clear at the Round Table – which can be a start and which is to be developed further – that the past is to be worked out and that the hotline, which is not government-bound, will be strengthened. I can say this to all the ladies and gentlemen: Be sensitive enough if you have any suspicion of choosing 0800 80 88. – This is the victim hotline. I think the rule of law is strong enough. It is now about pooling a network across the various ministries – family, health, justice and education – as well as the Federal Chancellery to eliminate the causes as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not want there to be media reports in ten or 20 years, that there have been so many cases of sexual abuse in 2010, then, as I believe, we must put aside cheap populism with one voice – and let those who still abuse their authority relationship know that there is no tolerance in our state for violence and sexual abuse on children and young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6513	Mr Fichtenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6534	Madam President. Dear women ministers! High house! It is not easy, but it is a dramatic and difficult matter to encounter these things of loathsomeness with the right tones. Mr Neugebauer rightly said that it would be necessary for the victims to be sensitive and respectful, with the appropriate dignity, also in all aspects of political action. . I add that the measure taken by the Catholic Church to begin work in its own field and with the management of the Commission the former head of state Klasnic – she herself said “Mr Landeshuptmann” – has therefore chosen the formal right title of function – to entrust to us no cause for distrust. We can maintain, across party borders, that this person is undoubtedly a person who has the confidence to act properly in this management function. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One should not, if one person comes from another political sphere in a certain way, publicly act, sniff the party policy package on the back and connect with it any kind of malice. As ever, the occasion that leads us to today's debate is dramatic and evil enough and all efforts are required to do everything possible to prevent such events from happening in the future, or even as far as they are concerned. The past is moderate, worthy and as extensive as it is to work out as humanely adapted and fair to the victims, but yet it is a measure of openness not to explore this situation party-politically, on the part of the Greens. It is not to be forgotten that dealing with sexuality with children has a dramatic ideology-history refreshment with the green side. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: This is a party-political argument!]] Unfortunately, it is to be remembered that it was the Greens who in 1985 in the German Bundestag worked to resolve the criminality of sexual relations with children. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: What you say is scandalous! Shame!]] At that time, one has tried – under the title: a common sexuality is a form of communication between people of all ages, sex and so on – as the criminality is to be lifted. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Shame!]] You're supposed to be ashamed of this occasion today. That's part of your idea story! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And this is also a welcome occasion for you today to go on a bearing pillar of social order, namely to the Catholic Church. [[Abg. Oils: Are you all right?]] The Freedom Party is clearly on the stand “Separation of State and Church”, but this instigation-related attempt to start on Catholic institutions – and even to quote the Pope as a “individual in the spiritual sense” as it is from your corner – we reject that! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: I didn't say a word about it! What you're saying is party political! Shame!]] – If this has been misinterpreted, then you can distance yourself from it! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Short and good: There is enough reason to take this issue seriously and far from party-political use! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: This is your address!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] You can still yell so much: This possibility that you combine with this matter with a shift for party-political benefit is not to be taken away! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6668	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6690	Madam President. It is probably now expected that I will go further into these unsustainable statements made by Mr Fichtenbauer. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Fichtenbauer, I am not going to do that because what you have done here is your usual variant of hating and distraction. [[Abg. Weinzinger: This is the highlight! Incredible!]] I will not follow this one, but I will continue to deal with our goal of helping the victims of institutional violence, whether in churches, or in other institutions. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why do we need this current hour on this subject? Mr Jarolim referred to it, Mr Steinhauser, of course. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] . We need this current hour because we are all responsible because responsibility of all the state institutions and institutions is required and because the government, the governments, the government members of the government have not shouldered this responsibility in recent weeks. I can explain why. It was the talk of a round table. The round table was only convened in the media after weeks of getting to know several cases. However, he was deliberately called up under the title “Sexual Abuse in Families. ” Mr Steinhauser has already explained: All the attempts of the experts who were invited – the victims were completely excluded; several attempts by those concerned to be invited were also made by the ministers to draw attention to the cases of abuse, sexual violence, physical violence, physical violence in various institutions, church institutions, institutions run by state homes – were scrambled off by the ministers present, i.e. by Mrs. Minister Bandion-Ortner and Mrs. State Secretary Marek. It was diverted to the subject of sexual abuse in the family. Yes, sexual abuse in the family is a topic. Yeah, he's been like that for years. Yes, there are also numerous initiatives by the Greens not to limit the protection of victims here, but to extend and support them. But we are currently dealing specifically with a number of people who have been affected for the first time to speak in order to clarify: Yes, we are victims of violence in church institutions, in which we as children and young people were entrusted. On the part of the Federal Government, and not to put forward any action to give these people the opportunity, on the one hand, to report elsewhere beyond the media and to say: For the first time I would like to talk about it! not to offer any conversation, in the sense of: What is needed? What are your ideas, what do you want?, and not to show any interest in acting on a seamless, transparent Enlightenment in the form of an investigative commission, let alone think about how these victims could be compensated, is unbearable and at the edge of tolerability. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if you, Mr Neugebauer, are meeting the “Möwe” here, you obviously have not read the “standard” article the day after the round table! [[Abg. Neugebauer: I don’t need to read an article, I know the “Möwe” for years!]] We Greens have from the beginning demanded that there be an independent victim hotline financed by the Federal Government, which is independent of all the institutions. For it is unbearable for everyone concerned to report to the institution in which he or she was violently committed. This is a retraumatization that we must not support. I will therefore also make an appropriate request today, which will enable this hotline to be financed. And what happens? – The government is inactive. A private initiative forms, offers this opportunity. There's a phone number where those affected can turn. Cooperation with existing institutions has been sought on the basis of this platform “Considerate Church Violence”. More than 200 people who want different things have reported themselves to this day. Some of them spoke about it for the first time and just wanted to talk about it. The oldest person was 90 years old and spoke about it for the first time. Others wanted therapeutic support and treatment. Others wanted to know: Did the person who did this to me do it to other people? In other words, there is the need for networking to know: Did the people who did this to me do it to other children? [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And what's the round table doing? – The round table sells the “Möwe” as a hotline. But the managing director of the “Möwe” said it quite clearly: The “Möwe” is not equipped for this. It is another access, whether I speak to those affected by violence, who are already in adulthood and where violence lies decades ago, or with children. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] The “Möwe” says: We will forward these persons to the private initiative. This is more evidence that the private initiative has not been supported by the state, but that it has been supported here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] Mrs Minister, you have not answered Mr Steinhauser's questions. Maybe it's from your colleague Heinisch-Hosek.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6789	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6810	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Victim protection and child abuse is a very important issue, a very emotional issue, one that is very moving the population. I am now also putting myself a little into the situation of those who may be involved in this debate at home in front of the screens and cannot understand that in this so sensitive and delicate matter we can get into the hair at all and that there is no unanimous opinion in the House, first of all to make the right laws for the victims and not to give preference to any weakening in the sense of taking the interests of the perpetrator. [[OBJECTIVES]] My dear Mrs Federal Minister, you have rightly spoken today: They want to involve all the socially relevant groups of our Republic in the discussions that are now necessary due to the acute cases that have occurred in recent months. But I would also like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, why you did not also involve Parliament in the deliberations, why we, the political groups of the House, where we picture the society of our Republic as a People's Office, cannot also take part in the round table, where we could place our concerns and our proposals for dealing with this very difficult situation where it is a matter of being an important support to the victims in dealing with their problems and their feelings. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This issue is not a margin theme. It is a massive issue when we learn that in Austria, for example, the dark figures of child abuse are 20,000 cases per year. This is not a bagatellan affair, it is a massive social policy problem that we must accept, because it is the legislator's obligation to ensure that ordinary laws are made. This is still the best, the most efficient victim protection, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I cannot understand how child abuse, how murder of the souls of young people can be delayed at all. Murder, ladies and gentlemen, can never be delayed. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that there are any limitation periods for this in our law. There can be no such thing as that, ladies and gentlemen, we must accept it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Victim protection must be the first – and not the consideration of perpetrator interests, dear Mrs. Federal Minister! I am very happy that the Greens have also taken up this issue, no question at all, that is important and right. I am skeptical about the introduction of a fund because I am basically skeptical of the Fund. A fund is such a kind of food that is repeatedly tapped – whether legitimate or unauthorized – which is very complex administratively, very much money devours. It would be most important to me, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt consistent, strong, effective penalties and laws that categorically frighten the perpetrators. That would be the hour's commandment, we need to talk about it. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Graf.]] It cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that there is still an § 207 in the Criminal Code – normal abuse. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who invented this! Unbelievable!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is normal about abuse? Let us consider the wording of this law: “normal abuse ”! Can a National Council in the present day even answer that we tolerate “normal abuse” at all? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there must be no such thing. This pass of law must be removed! “Normal abuses” are to be eliminated, should not exist anymore! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Any abuse is difficult!]] We should devote ourselves to the abuse of children, for example, § 92 of the Criminal Code, if I may mention it. If you torture children to death, you will be deprived of freedom for a maximum of 10 years. If you torture children to death, you will have a maximum of 10 years! – Ladies and gentlemen, if you torture children to death, you have to spend all your life behind the door and lattices. That is my firm principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6923	Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e6944	Madam President. Mrs. Colleague! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is the right time for my person to say that I deeply regret what has happened to every single victim in this country. On the one hand, it is about the victims who have experienced violence and abuse in the church, of course, it is about the victims who have experienced violence and abuse in homes and other institutions, and of course it is about the victims who have experienced violence and abuse in the family. All these groups – I believe – should be deeply respected. And we should say again that the Federal Government has absolutely no tolerance for these serious human rights violations. I deeply regret that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If today it is demanded that the victims of the Catholic Church, the Church must be particularly focused on, then I start with this group and I would like to say that a month ago a dialogue of Chancellor Faymann with the 14 churches and recognized religious communities took place in this country, where, of course, one month ago, the subject of violence and sexual abuse in the Catholic Church was, of course, made the subject of violence and sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, on the one hand by Mr. Chancellor himself, on the other side of Cardinal Schönborn, who, in the course of the conversation, handed over the guidelines to the Federal Chancellor, who created the Catholic Church in order to become effective now and to combat this abuse for the future, but also, above all, to the victims, a hundred percent aid. [[Call the BZÖ:And the children’s friends!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did SPÖ do for the victims of children’s friends?]] In the course of the discussion, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic stressed more than once that a hundred percent of the information is important to him that we should use all measures within the framework of all legal means to help the victims. It is about victims who are 50, 60, 70 years old or older – as has already been said today – who can talk about it for the first time. But it's also about young victims. Of course, it is also about children. I believe that it is important for the Federal Chancellor to stress that improvements, changes or, if necessary, intensifications should be considered if this is necessary. I also think that the Federal Government is by no means impoverished by what has been committed in crimes against these people, but that it is very likely that measures will be taken, such as the establishment of this one Commission. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (on a man standing on the gallery, showing filming) Madam President,... permission?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Does he have a film license?]] I too believe that we should be excited about which independent experts will meet there. Next week will be presented who works on it. I think it is especially important that the victims who need therapy are first paid for this therapy. Of course, you have to talk about other compensation payments. But I believe it is important that it is now possible to start the healing process and that these therapies must be guaranteed by the Catholic Church. This commitment already exists. [[Abg. Grosz:... monopoly! Childfriends!]] I don't want to be confused, but I still do: There is a victim hotline for children – that has already been mentioned today –, of course, there is a victim hotline of the Ministry of Justice, which the “White Ring” operates, the largest victim protection facility in our country, there are the violence protection centers that are in place in every federal country where men and women can turn when violence was in play. To make all these hotlines more known and network more can be a task that we should comply with – that is no question –: the application of the numbers that can be used 365 days a year around the clock, so that the next step can happen, if necessary, a therapy, if only necessarily just a conversation to tell you what happened. I believe that it is important to debate future changes, perhaps even tightening of laws, that is not a question. I, too, am thinking of rethinking about limitation periods. We have extended these limitation periods under the Second Law on Violence. I also think, however, of rethinking the criminal frameworks, the level of punishment – as has already been said today – that for crimes, for sexual abuse or other loathsome acts of violence on children of the criminal frameworks, perhaps it is not as exhausted as it should be used up so as to have a dissuasive effect. [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are no offenses, they are crimes!]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: This is not the case now!]] I believe that it is important to stress here, too, that the financial resources for the process support of victims of violence are ensured that nothing is simply reduced, although the budgetary consolidation rate becomes a very tougher and for each department and for each ministry the same money is available. Finally, I would like to say that we must continue to ensure in the future that it is not only lip recognition that we are behind the anti-violence institutions, all the women's advisory bodies, all the women's houses, the man's advice in our country, the victim hotlines and all the emergency calls that exist, but that, also because the cases are in progress, the dark figures are very high, we are still prepared to secure all these institutions financially, and, where appropriate, in the sense that the Federal Chancellor has meant, we should also think about how we might still remember changes, improvements, where necessary aggravation of the existing legal situation, so that we can meet each individual victim on his own, in his own own own way as a state, as a federal government, as the leaders of responsibility for this step that healing can begin.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7081	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7102	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Again and again we are confronted with new reports dealing with sexual violence, sexual abuse, but also physical and mental abuse. At present, this is a matter of increased public debate in the institutions of the Catholic Church, schools and boarding schools. Every day we read about attacks on children in educational institutions, but also in those areas where there should be protection and security, namely in the families. It's shit that comes to light. You have to deal with violence, perversion, dependence, fear, pain and injuries. But especially in self-contained spaces, in self-contained institutions, we always find processes, structures that do not penetrate outside, where everyone covers everyone. The vast majority of those involved in the current discussion and in the public debate were boys, male young people who were victims – today adult men. They did not get victims of a system that had not been through for a long time, where silence was kept silent, where long silence was held silent. A few years ago, the debate on abuse in Catholic institutions was held in Austria, and as it turns out, it was only the surface. In recent months, a flood of distress has been articulated, audible and visible. And this no-more-silence and this non-silence-being has set in motion an avalanche, ladies and gentlemen. People who have been silent for years – out of shame, out of helplessness, out of fear – are now at the centre of the debate. Clear words of apologies are necessary. These events will never be forgotten. What is to be done, ladies and gentlemen, so that these events can be stopped? – On the one hand, there is a clear education contract: Children must become strong, self-confident personalities. We need for closed school systems, for facilities an efficient control system that works within them and that also enables external control. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I am also convinced that this also applies to facilities for people with special needs, as well as to facilities for older people in need of care. These are also defencelessly delivered and often cannot articulate. The demand for a compensation fund for victims is supported by us, especially when it comes to financing treatment costs, enabling necessary therapies. We also have our consent to the demand for compensation for damages similar to the American system, where the Catholic Church has made money available. We also need to consider how existing protective facilities, child protection centres are still well-instructed so that they can continue to fulfil their necessary work. That means: It is not a reduction, it is not a reduction. More money, because especially these child protection centres, these anti-violence centres, are the facilities where often plagued and defenseless children, but also adults who want to provide assistance, receive the necessary support. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: Abuse is a social phenomenon, and all measures that prevent it are to be supported and promoted. We owe this to the victims, as well as clear, honest words of apologies and regrets – although I would also like to note that work with the perpetrators must also be part of our work and reflections. Coming to the end, my Ladies and gentlemen: 30 or more years ago physical abuses, abuses were taboo themes. Many of us will remember having experienced it ourselves, in smaller or larger forms, that disciplines were on the agenda. To beat children, to abuse children is forbidden and no cavalier crime. It is about mutual respect today, dignity, responsibility and human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7160	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7184	Madam President, Dear Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Advisors! It is undoubtedly a very delicate issue to which we have to devote ourselves today. Violence against children and young people, especially, of course, including sexual violence and sexual abuse of children and young people, is undoubtedly one of the most disgusting crimes that can only be imagined. This is particularly because the wounds that are being done to these children and young people do not heal for a very long time, often for a lifetime. Of course, this sentence applies entirely regardless of whether violence and sexual abuse take place in church institutions, whether they take place in state institutions or in private institutions or also in the family environment. It is therefore, I believe, right and good that we are also dealing today with the fact that the state and the legislator are constantly – and I believe that this is also a ongoing process – dealing with this issue, such as the protection of the weakest of our society, the children and the young people from sexual violence and sexual abuse can be further improved and expanded. This also applies, however, entirely irrespective of whether children are cared for in church facilities or in government or private. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, all children, all young people are entitled to state protection and state support. In recent years, therefore, numerous legislative measures have been taken to prevent and prevent sexual violence and abuse, particularly against children and young people, particularly in view of this particular need for protection. I would just like to mention some legal measures that we have jointly adopted, in particular the second package of anti-violence from the previous year which has already been mentioned several times. In recent years, the limitation period has already been greatly extended several times, most recently in the previous year. We are also very far ahead in international comparison. In the case of minor victims, the limitation period begins only with the 28th. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== This is also a requirement that has already been mentioned several times today – in some of the relevant offences, the criminal frameworks have been significantly increased, and criminal restrictions have also been introduced, so that the court cannot go under a certain minimum penalty framework, and it has also been possible for the first time in the event of rape and sexual abuse with death. The probation period has been considerably extended especially in the case of sexual offences, as has the period of eradication. The information on such crimes is therefore very long, in part also possible for life, and the premise is held for life. It was – and I believe that this is also an important point – introduced a very permanent and lifelong judicial supervision of sexual offenders, and I think quite, very important in the previous year was that the first time a judicial ban was made possible. The court may simply prohibit and prohibit activities in certain institutions, such as educational institutions, in the case of sex offenders for a long time, even for an indefinite period. I believe that this is an important point in the sense of prevention. A sexual criminal file was also introduced by law, with information rights also for schools and childcare facilities. And, of course, because the victims are also at the centre of our consideration, in recent years, the process support, not only legal, but also psychosocial, has been greatly enhanced. Finally, as an example, I would just like to mention that the fact that the abuse of an authority relationship – which is very common in the context we are discussing here – has also been extended for the first time to doctors, nurses, nurses, psychotherapists and also to nurses. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, of course, legal measures, in particular criminal laws, can do no harm to such acts – even if they are decades behind them. Even the best laws cannot prevent such loathsome crimes with a hundred percent security. This requires more – much of it has already been mentioned today – simply a culture of non-respectiveness, civil appeal, appropriate attention in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But even, ladies and gentlemen, if we manage to prevent a crime, even with quite further measures, only to help one victim, then it is worth discussing it. And, of course, we will be happy to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7251	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7272	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! High house! The reactions of the Greens, the colleague Musil, in particular – Musiol, apologise, Mrs Colleague – have shown us one thing to say to our dear colleague Fichtenbauer: [[Abg. May. Musiol: Musiol!]] The most critical criticism of green positions, green ideas and green politicians is in the Green language “Hetze”. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Stop party politics! That doesn't mean anything!]] With this ‘hetze’ and ‘polemik’, as you call it, we should discuss a little bit and ask ourselves whether this is really all hetze. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Come on!]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Talk about it! – Do not go into the role of sacrifice!]] The word “zero tolerance” has often been: ‘zero tolerance’ against child shears, ‘zero tolerance’ against and against children. – Let’s take a look at whether zero tolerance is really required by you against all, or just zero tolerance against those that don’t fit you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Do not always go into the role of sacrifice!]] Perhaps, Mr Steinhauser, before you jump over the table here, I can do a small lecture – a short one, because I only have 5 minutes. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: You are always in the role of sacrifice! You never talk about those really interested!]] I quote, “I worked in this kindergarten for two years. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: I'm so sorry! You're always in the victim role! How one hour of the day will do about you how you can be helped!]] There were children between two and five years of age – a fantastic experience. ... My constant flirt with all children soon took erotic trains. I could really feel how the little girls five years old had learned to touch me. ... It happened to me several times that some kids opened my pants and started caressing me. I reacted differently depending on the circumstances, but their wish presented me with problems. I asked her: “Why don’t you play one another, why have you chosen me and not other children?” But if they insisted, I would still strip them.” Now you can guess where I quoted it. Do you know that? – Oh, Mr Stadler is well informed! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Daniel Cohn-Bendit! Well-known children's muffins!]] But the Green Group does not seem to be. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, the Cohn-Bendit!]] The famous book – famous at least for people who are a little interested in the other side – is: “The great bazaar. Talks with Michel Lévy, Jean-Marc Salmon, Maren Sell, Daniel Cohn-Bendit. For those who do not know – Mr Steinhauser, you may know who Daniel Cohn-Bendit is. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: And? What does this help those affected?]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: How does this nonsense help those affected?]] Daniel Cohn-Bendit has been chairman of the Group since 2002 The Greens/European Free Alliance in the European Parliament. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Shame! Shame!]] – Dear colleague Steinhauser, before I’m ashamed, listen to me a little bit! And do you know when this whole story came out when you first faced the Cohn-Bendit? – 2001, it was. In 2001, Bettina Röhl, a converted RAF activist, brought to the public. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Say something about the subject! Or don't you have anything to say?]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: You have nothing to say, obviously!]] And Cohn-Bendit meant that – not that he apologised, all that you demand from the Church –: Well, maybe it was a little awkward to write it back then, but that was the time of the sexual revolution. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: And what does this help the affected?]] [[Abg. May. Musiol: Don't turn off!]] And the green movement has drawn clear “zero tolerance” from it and has chosen the Daniel Cohn-Bendit as the group chairman he is up to today! – That on the question of zero tolerance in the green view, and that on the question of who is hot. The position to be taken by you: Whoever is a perpetrator and a victim, we determine it; and if one happens to be a perpetrator in our circles, then there is no sacrifice! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: You have nothing to say to those affected! Only polemics!]] This position is one that speaks horrendously of a discussion such as the opposite where terror is concerned against our children. I think you have exposed yourself through this request and through the focus on the Church in a way that I have not noticed in Parliament in recent months. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: I don’t “explain” that at all! Now make a point!]] – Mr Commissioner, you are welcome to speak, but now I am on the floor. I have the microphone and am therefore also acoustically stronger – so it is better to hold back. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I ask you one: Imagine, Mr. Steinbauer, speaking purely rhetorically, in 2001, we say that Bishop Krenn wrote this and it would have come to the public, and in 2002 Bishop Krenn, we say, would have become Pope. Imagine the green reactions and also the reactions in the “standard” or “profile” or the “FORMAT” to this story! Or imagine that the colleague, Count, would have said or written this before he was elected as President of the National Council, or the Barbara Rosenkranz would have written it just before the election! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Did he write it? - I don't know!]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: What do you want to suggest?]] Imagine your reactions! Think a little further, and then talk again! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: What do you want to suggest?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to suggest anything, but I say something that applies not only to you, but to many like-minded people, perhaps by calling again to the Bible: “Why do you see the splitter in your brother’s eye, but you don’t notice the beam in your own eye?” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7592	It is now Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7613	Madam President. Dear ministers! High house! Dear disabled organizations! Dear TV listeners! Before I get to the point, I really want to express my deepest concern. I am really shocked that people who have been affected have been raped, who have been abused, are doing party politics! I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take account of those concerned. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I would like to start by bringing two examples of how people have been dealt with in the past. One concerns a church institution: At that time, for example, children were put in a room and had showers run over the children, and from outside the command came, whether hot or cold, and the children had to scream. And then this person – it was an abbot that it was dealing with – was transferred. And now imagine where to put this person: They put this person in a disabled home! – What does that mean? For people who are much less able to defend themselves, does this abbot come into use?- Oh, my God! These are the consequences of getting out of it?- Oh, my God! Another example: A teacher at a public institution has sexually abused several children for years. There was a trial, and this teacher was acquitted! The only consequence of this was that this teacher was no longer allowed to teach to public institutions. But he was generally allowed to continue teaching to private institutions. – These are the consequences we are pulling?- Oh, my God! People affected want to explain again and again that they have been abused, they want to express this, but often they are not taken seriously. This is often done as a fantasy. People with disabilities, perhaps they even lie!, that's what is seen. Once a lawyer held a hearing in general: No, we don't believe that because people with disabilities lie anyway! One really sees: In Austria, disabled women are affected by two thirds of sexual abuse and about 50 percent of disabled men. And that's really a big number. However, sexual abuse was carried out on every fourth disabled woman. I would like to show you a few more examples. If I visualize the number of persons concerned: Let's say it matters so much. [[The speaker makes a corresponding hand movement.]] Among the people with disabilities, when you look at it, this is visually equal to so much. And behavioral children are affected five times, to that extent! [[Making the corresponding hand movement.]] That means: How are people who cannot express themselves by language to tell this to someone? Ladies and gentlemen, imagine this: It was spoken of today by a phone hotline. Remember, too, that there are people who can't express themselves in a language that can't call? This means: people with severe hearing, people with speech impairment, deaf People. How should they express their sufferings? – Do you think about it? They're really isolated then! There is a UN Convention on Human Rights on the Rights of People with Disabilities, and it states in an article that violence and abuse and exploitation of disabled people must be prevented. Madam Minister, we need measures! We need legislation that prevents this from happening, we need social measures, we need measures in the field of education. I'm asking you to do this! What about the victim fund? Will you really meet people in person? What are your plans in connection with a round table insofar as experts – affected experts – are invited? The art. 4 of the UN Convention states that we should involve interested experts. This issue is really important and is far too bad to be used in this House, and in the interests of the people concerned, I ask you not to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7710	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e7732	Madam President. High house! Mrs Jarmer, so far, there is only one political group that has used this issue in political terms – and I say that has been exploited, ladies and gentlemen: Your own group. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Well, well! Shit!]] - Of course! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: nonsense!]] All the other political groups have so far held back, including in the public debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: You were inactive! Inaction and restraint is not the same!]] It was your own group! Do not pretend that the abuses of the disabled you mentioned would also be blamed on the church. The majority of this takes place in public homes. That is unfortunate enough and dramatic enough. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Did you not listen?]] Ladies and gentlemen, believe You're telling me: Every Catholic is sorry, and it hurts him when anointed hands, who are to consecrate and bless, commit to children. That's heaven screaming enough, but it's just as much a fact that in this Catholic church, which is today at the pranger, set by the Greens at the Pranger, for decades in educational institutions, in religious schools, in church schools, in church homes, great educational work has been done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: The Federal Government...!]] [[Congratulations with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We should not overlook this if today, due to dramatic cases, we act as if the Church as a whole would be a single child abuse facility. I warn against misusing the subject of abuse to be able to make church policy: The one... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – Well, that’s why the sound is coming! The one to stand up against the Church like the once Voltaire – Put it down, the disgraceful!, Voltaire has said; in tradition they stand – and the other who want to drive internal church politics, and that was very treacherous: Mr Schermann has already been quoted today – I refuse to say: Hochwerden Schermann. All of a sudden, child abuse is linked to the colibate theme. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: No topic! No topic!]] This was not even the last Bregenzerwald to convey to farmers what this has to do with each other. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Wasn't a theme here!]] Every serious psychologist tells you that child abuse has nothing to do with celibacy, so the subject has been dropped again. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That wasn't a topic here!]] That's what you and all of you have tried, one of them has already been quoted today. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Did you come too late?]] They are trying to abuse child abuse in order to be able to make policy against the Church in order to be able to perform party-political thesis. They don't care about the church. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: But those affected!]] If they were, then you would first have to enter into your own conscience and research what part your ideology, your own libertarian – radical libertarian – ideology has in the states, ladies and gentlemen; but of course not. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Incredible! Incredible!]] The “Soul Saint” Daniel Cohn-Bendit has already been quoted by Mr Hübner. You should first study the proposals for initiative in the German Bundestag on the sexual revolution by your family members in Germany outside, or look at your party friends in Holland, who together with a pedestal party there make a policy of sexual revolution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Don't talk nonsense!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] That's your share of the problem, ladies and gentlemen. They are responsible for the climate; all the libertarian developments are responsible for this. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Therefore, do not occupy a theme that you have previously considered quite differently! They belong to those groups, ladies and gentlemen, who were not sacred enough to make it not ridiculous, no moral commandment, no creed, no disciplinary command, ladies and gentlemen, and today you act as if you had invented the ecclesial discipline, the ecclesial moral and moral doctrine. Yes, the tears come to me, they shoot me riskily with loud credibility with you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: The tears come to me too! The tears are right!]] [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Painful! A embarrassing appearance!]] In fact, you are trying to misuse this subject unscrupulously on the back of the abuse victims. I have much more confidence in Mrs. Ex-Chairman Klasnic, I also have much more confidence in Mrs. Federal Ministers – but I have no boundless confidence, because child abuse is still a school, political associations are. When did the SPÖ make sure that the abuse victims of the children’s friends, the children’s friend, were paid? [[Abg. May. Korun: Why are you always distracting?]] And has the party president resigned, as the Pope should have resigned? When did this happen? Ladies and gentlemen, abuse of children is an issue that has to be dealt with primarily by the justice and the youth welfare authorities, and there is an intervention. And there are no means, ladies and gentlemen! It would be much more reasonable to provide the appropriate resources for youth welfare services in order to help victims of abuse. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It would be important to ensure a reasonable family policy. And now, Mr Steinhauser, I would like to say something to you: Go to a caritas facility and see what has been done there for decades for children from neglected families who have become victims of abuse! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Nice to praise the Caritas once!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what's being done there, you're hiding it today. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Nice to have you praise the Caritas!]] They are concerned only with polemizing against the Catholic Church, but other churches also have to complain of abuse victims, including other religious institutions. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That wasn't...!]] Also so-called enlightened religious institutions, as the Odenwald School has shown, have to complain of abuse victims. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the matter: Don't do it on the back of victims of abuse of party political abuse!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8026	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8047	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At the end of this debate, which was partly very emotional, I would like to return to an objective level in humility before the victims, by, of course, focusing on the past of the victims – the traumatized victim who has been abused – so that these victims can develop their yet traumatic experiences, but would like to go mainly to prevention, to the future. We know that in various institutions – starting with state institutions, through private institutions, down to the family – abuse is being done to our children, and today we have heard of the dolphins of the children's souls and of the murders of the children's souls. Klubobmann Bucher explained that there are 20 000 cases of abuse of children per year. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have to do something! For me, the alarm bells are ringing, and we have to do something to prevent the future of our children, the future of our state, from getting under the wheels. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Here I appeal to all the parties in this House, that we go mainly to prevention, that we review the criminal code, that we no longer release perpetrators who have been sentenced from prisons early on, that by raising the criminal frameworks we achieve a deterrent effect that we are acting by introducing the advertising obligation in cases of suspicion of sexual abuse and violence. [[Abg. Strache: No limitation! No limitation!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Justice Minister! Let us take this courageous step, but, as I believe, it is necessary to ensure that our children in our state are sufficiently protected in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8082	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. [[10:30:27]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8103	For the first time, we have come to the current hour of Europe, which was introduced in the context of the last Rules of Procedure. It is held four times a year and serves a debate on issues of general interest in the field of European Union competence. The President-in-Office of the Council agreed to be proposed by a political group in the order of club strength. Today, therefore, on a proposal from the SPÖ, we are dealing with: “ overcoming the crisis – with social justice and a new financial market architecture” First, Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, spoke. The rules of procedure relating to speaking time are identical to those for the current hour. That means the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8142	Ladies and gentlemen, you already see from the title of the current European hour that the issue of social justice is inseparably linked to dealing with this financial and economic crisis, which is only possible with a new financial market regulation and regulation. Those who suffer the most from this financial crisis are, of course, workers, pensioners, but also the entire productive part of the economy: Entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who are not seeking their profits in the speculation field, but by trying to be productive. In this context, it is necessary that there are, of course, quite deep solutions. Joseph Stiglitz, too, says this in his book “In the Free Fall” – a chapter of which is called “A new society” – in which he clearly states that this is not a sum of individual errors, but that a systemic crisis lies behind it and therefore also needs to take appropriate measures. Obama recently said the following in the fight for a new financial market architecture and in connection with the events around Goldman Sachs, which were not entirely indifferent to allowing Greece to get into the eurozone with beautiful figures at that time. – I quote: “Every day we do not act, the same system that has led to rescue operations remains intact, with exactly the same loopholes and loads. If we don’t change what led to the crisis, we condemn ourselves to repeat it.” This is a very clear target of the President of the United States, and it is also entitled, for the result is the following: We now have 24 million unemployed people in Europe – plus 7 million, since this financial crisis has also hit the real economy – we have experienced a fall in growth. The cost of the economies is around €1,000 billion. The public deficits in the European area have so far cost the States €3,000 billion in increase in deficits. To support the banking sector, 13 percent of the economic performance in the euro area has so far been spent, in total, € 390 billion – including liability and guarantee, I say, but that is what this is essentially about. First of all, the unemployment rate of the EU is 27 9.6 percent and the unemployment rate in Austria is 5 percent. It must be noted that this Federal Government, under the leadership of Chancellor Faymann, has at the right moment taken the right action, has tried to further boost growth and employment. That's one of the essential conditions also to address the consequences of this financial and thus economic crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We have made countless decisions here in the House and decided on economic packages – economic packages that have an impact on employment, but also on small and medium-sized enterprises – but also a framework for bank support, for the motivation of lending, because we have always talked about the credit clamp, and there was also a very strong debate on control and motivation and how to implement it. What is particularly important is that there are, of course, forces within the European Union that act against this: Like Obama in America with the lobbys of Wall Street, with the lobbys of Goldman Sachs and others who actually reject any kind of financial market order, there is an attempt on the European side, especially from the City of London, to oppose as clear regulations as possible. This is where Chancellor Faymann has been the one who, at European level, with the financial transaction tax, already launched an initiative at a meeting of the European Council in October of the previous year, which has led to the Commission's mission to examine this once so that there are documents or the basis for a decision, and there was also the demand of Werner Faymann for a bank levy of €500 million, estimated for Austria, which raises not only the question of social justice but also the question of: Should not those who are the cause of this financial and economic crisis – and, of course, their suffering ones – be asked to cash out? The financial transaction tax, of course, is about trying to do everything possible to afford the speculations with shares, with derivatives, with raw materials, with exchange rates, which should exert a regulatory influence, but of course can also mean a source of revenue. With regard to bank charges, it is true that – especially because it is precisely because of the interdependence of traditional banking business, but also investment banking, speculative sector – there is also, of course, always a co-responsible, and I must say that the root of the problem is not in Austria. The root of the problem, of course, is in the United States and, of course, lies with those circles in Europe who are now making up the lobby, who are trying to find out where they can only be found out. It is therefore important that everything is done in this direction. There is also an economic and financial network of social democrats in Europe, where Andi Schieder, who is the president of this network recently, is trying to do everything possible to coordinate and influence this transaction tax and financial market regulation. It is also important, of course, for these financial supervisory structures to go beyond the mere recommendation and warnings that there must also be a perspective for this supervision to be able to exercise real influence, that there should be a reform of this supervision, so that, in these essential areas, the banks, insurance companies, but also the securities dealers, there can also be a decisive influence against which the UK and Germany have been able to block themselves in its effectiveness until now, although there are, of course, fierce discussions and discussions in this area of the European Union and the Commission. With regard to the role of rating agencies, it is also important that they become more transparent that there is more competition that their dependence on banks and is questioned by private capital because, of course, this has often led to wrong ratings, which was a reason for misevaluation. Now one is even discussing how it is possible for one to earn money by betting that Greece will not cope with its crisis. So these are all the elements that are of great importance, but what we have to criticize in this context is – and it will be our task to counter this – that a paper from the European Commission lists, which is all difficult and how it may not work. ==References====External links== April of this year reported on this paper. As the volume of transaction tax is doubted, there will no longer be talk of an EU transaction tax and a bank tax, because they say they should perhaps choose the second, the bank tax. They say that this is basically positive, but at the same time they think that the location is not at risk and that the banks are not only quite fleeing into risky business models. In any case, there are still forces at work against which, I believe, everything has to be done – they are also critical about currency speculation or their regulatory attempts – because this can lead to a growing distrust of the European Union in the population, of course, by saying: Wait! How does this European Union actually legitimise itself? But, among other things, it is also able to participate in the fact that there are regulations on the European side once – with the claim to implement them globally. If we want to reach more agreement for the European Union, it is of course also important that we move forward in our efforts – and that is what the Federal Government is doing, also others, but not all the governments – to raise a lobbying structure, a counter-lobbying structure so that we can achieve that at the end of the day with this regulation, or to make such large banks that they cannot be destroyed at all, even if it might be business-friendly, because they are so large. So social justice is the goal, and in this way it is important that there be regulation, the new financial market system, and that we continue this path, because it is vital for all of us, for Europe, for workers, for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8243	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8264	Madam President. Honourable State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to join with the comments made by the president of the club. The European Union has undoubtedly done much in the past, which the skeptics should also recognise. The European Union has brought together countries that could not be different in the fields of peace policy and agendas, and the regular and good contacts within the European Union alone, in addition to the European Union's rules, are evidence of the importance of peace policy. The opening up of markets and the opening of markets, as well as the enlargement of the European Union, for export countries such as Austria, as well as for Germany or other countries in their own country, have brought a lot of security and benefits that can be expected. At the same time, we know that liberalism and openness of markets are not enough to create prosperity, social balance and framework conditions for fairness and justice. No one less than Professor Stiglitz, mentioned today, has recently said that we need to regulate the markets again. I quote: “Before the crisis, deregulation was in fashion for many years [...]. Today we know how wrong it was. Regulation plays a crucial role in a well-functioning economy, and in order for it to be really effective, we need to coordinate it globally.” But at the same time he says: “But you don’t have to decide everything together. It is more practical when each country first adopts its own rules [...].’ So it is not a question of leaning back and saying that we cannot do anything in the European Union as long as we do not have an environmental impact worldwide, on financial market regulation. It is not a question of using this as an excuse to do nothing in your own country, but of knowing that modeling in your own country will only give the European Union the power to demand international rules. Whether for the protection of the environment and for the prevention of climate change, for the reduction of CO2 or for the creation of control of financial markets, for the prohibition of speculation or for the creation of fair conditions: There is a range of opportunities everywhere in your own country, even if you know that you are stronger in the European Union and stronger with international rules. We must not go into competition with the sites where we are trying to apportion the cost of the economic crisis on mass taxes, evenly burden households, thus endangering purchasing power, even social compensation in Europe. That is why the question of who will ultimately pay this bill of € 800 to €1 000 billion for budgetary consolidation in Europe will be a very essential one. It is not an insignificant question whether the purchasing power of the weakest or the average wage earner is weakened in such a way that social compensation is lost in Europe and injustice also affects people, and, I am convinced, it would also be aggressive in many areas, because it is not to be seen that speculation will quickly bring one back to one’s feet and the other, who must turn every euro twice and ask themselves whether they can afford the rent or life at all, to do away with this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the question of how fair it is to remedy the damage is just as important as the question of how to prevent additional and future damage. This serious strategy of the European Union to build up its own financial market architecture, such as rules for social and economic conditions, not simply to see control as a sign in Europe, but to provide all the necessary instruments and measures, this credibility of control, of speculation prohibitions, of rules will be measured by the European Union and its development. I know we're far from this goal. I know that many countries of the European Union, represented by their government leaders, with whom I have the opportunity, almost monthly, to participate in a political exchange of information and discourse, are still of the opinion that we should be more reticent here, pointing out that we are in a location competition – Europe, for example, against Asian markets. But precisely this location competition must not lead us to orient ourselves to the lowest wages, to the lowest workers' rights and to the highest poverty. In Europe, we do not want to sacrifice the strengths of social Europe, even in Austria the special strengths of workers' rights, any location competition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The highest objective is not to ensure the self-evident purpose of site competition, but to ensure prosperity and social justice through these achievements of research and development, the education system and competition. This will be a measure of success. Location competition is not a self-interest, but it has a goal, and this goal is man at the heart of the economy. – This must be noticeable to the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is no longer just social-democratic politicians or representatives of the union, it has long been representatives of various groups and political directions, who no longer agree with the idea of unrestricted deregulation, where, at the end of the day, everything is for the good, but the fairy tale of: The more unrestricted, the better it will be!, reject and say that this greed and speculation have no place in the development of a human-rightly society. Therefore, I am convinced that the financial market architecture will have many challenges in Europe and that there will be setbacks as well as progress. It will not be so easy that it can be presented in headlines because the opposites of the countries, the opposites of opinions, the opposites of realities and interests in the European Union are stronger than we are often aware of. Poorer salaries in countries such as Romania or Bulgaria, shadow economy, high unemployment, high youth unemployment, budget consolidation, which in these countries often results in a radical reduction in purchasing power or a deterioration in the high quality of social benefits, will – and I am convinced of this – face strong challenges. It is therefore all the more important that we in the European Union, but also in the euro area, try to provide mutual assistance where the stability of the currency is concerned and at the same time have transparency when it comes to documents. If one does not even have transparency, if one documents in the European Union, if there is not even such a thing as transparency, transparency and correctness, how can one even control it? - Yes, Goldman Sachs. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Goldmann Sachs!]] – That is why the Greek government, which was previously responsible, should also be mentioned here. However, we look forward to making it clear, especially when it comes to securing the euro, that we also need to build up our own financial instruments in Europe, together with the Monetary Fund, together with those who have experience. It is about creating own rating agencies to assess, control and intervene in their own way. That's what we're measured by. The more credible we achieve this, the more we can move forward what is most important to us in Europe, namely the confidence of the population in a common social, economic development of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8325	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers is 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8349	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor has now carried this out: The most important challenge for us and also for the other EU countries remains the handling of the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. They all know that this is the most severe global economic crisis since the 1930s. The effects have hit people's lives massively and hard, and we are now rightly expected to act decisively and quickly. We will all have to make a contribution to dealing with the crisis, but especially those who are co-responsible for this crisis that has caused this crisis. They should make a fair contribution. I can only agree with you, Mr Bundeskanzler. We therefore strongly support, as has already been mentioned, in the EU that there should first be an EU-wide bank levy, that there should be an EU-wide financial transaction tax, and that measures should finally be taken to regulate financial markets and thus prevent the causes of future crises. While governments in all EU countries are still busy fighting the impact of the crisis, the financial markets are already very much speculated. What does that show us? – This clearly shows us that the financial markets need to be regulated more strictly so that we can prevent a repetition of the financial crisis – you know or have certainly read that experts can already warn about a new financial crisis like this. This calls for swift action to be taken by decision-makers at European level. That is why I am very glad that Chancellor Faymann is also strongly committed to making decisions. However, if the EU remains in agreement and does not take action, I do not believe that the citizens understand this. They would rightly begin to ask the question of the EU's sense of meaning, although the crisis has in itself strengthened the confidence of citizens in the EU. I do not want to say that I am really disappointed about the study that the European Commission has recently presented on innovative sources of funding, because it has not really investigated the possibility of introducing a financial transaction tax. In my view, the Commission still has a new start, because the mandate of both the European Council and the European Parliament was clear and clear. I also believe that the Commission's conclusions – either bank levy or financial transaction tax – are not really understandable. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU faces major challenges and is about to adopt a future strategy – you know the term ‘Europe 2020’. From our point of view, this is mainly a question of achieving a balance between economic and social security, because these two areas must be of the same level, and the equality of these two areas must be ensured. We absolutely reject that level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's clear, ladies and gentlemen: Europe needs growth, but growth alone is not an objective in itself, but an instrument for the creation of prosperity and employment. The EU needs clear objectives for more and better jobs in its future strategy. In other words: We need more quality work and a reduction in precarious employment conditions, of which women are always particularly affected. A key objective of a European future strategy must also be to combat poverty. You know, 2010 is the year of combating poverty and social exclusion. If you look at the EU and compare it with other countries, you can say that there is wealth here, but that is why we need to look very closely and point out that a large part of the European population is still living in poverty. Fighting poverty must be defined as a key objective in the EU so that we can actually build a social Europe. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8412	Member of the Commission. Plassnik is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8434	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! 15 years now Austria is a member of the European Union – so we are a "teenager" in the European orchestra – and the retrospect can make us proud, but especially optimistic for the future. The Austrians understand very well what the European Union is doing in reality in the context of the crisis. As we have already heard, consent is increasing. Almost three quarters of Austrians see the future of Austria in the European Union and nowhere else. Europe protects and benefits Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't always so clear to everyone. The EU membership has done well in Austria, both the location and the people. And if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, say today that workers' rights must not be abolished in Europe for any location competition, that is absolutely right, only: This does not require anyone – not in this house and not in Europe. Europe protects, benefits Europe. A number that may be very interesting in this context: Today we pay for interest on federal bonds, i.e. government debt, by half less than in accession. For comparison: In 1995, it was 6.48 percent, and today it is 3.28 percent. This is important, it also creates design space for us. The main objectives of the EU 2020 strategy, which has just been adopted, are very ambitious. But they also offer us a compass to navigation from the crisis. In Austria, we must benefit from learning opportunities, but we must also be careful to avoid mistakes. We must not impose additional burdens on those who have to make the way out of the crisis at all: SMEs and industry. They create and secure jobs and growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has a problem on the expenditure side, not on the revenue side. We no longer need taxes, but less expenditure. We need to save more, we need more structural reforms. Let us learn – also as a country – from the crisis! Let's see which countries are better now! – These are those who like Austria have a high industrial ratio, which is at the forefront of the production of property; Germany with 23 percent, Finland with 22.4 percent, the Czechs with 24 percent, Austria with 20.2 percent. In comparison, there are countries such as Greece, Spain, France and the UK with an industrial rate of 11 to 14.6 percent. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us take the crisis as a reason for a wise growth and location policy, because we need the wise minds and the hard-working hands of all Austrians to overcome the crisis. It is said that the causers of the crisis should be asked to cash out. – What are you thinking about when it comes to Austria? Are these the Austrian consumers, employees, farmers, businesses, businesses? – No, ladies and gentlemen, the causes of the crisis are not at all found in Austria! We must therefore continue to have a courageous common approach both at European level and at G 192 level, the international community of the global system. We should go to the future with a sense of self-confidence and determination. I should like to mention briefly the speech recently delivered by EU Council President Herman Van Rompuy at the ÖVP Klubklausur: The upswing is still a very delicate plant. We need more growth, we need more employment. Without such economic strength, we cannot defend our interests and our values in the world. Our European model of life is at stake. The rapid growth of others means that Europe needs to change something and also implement reforms. - Quote. A look at the economic data in the world; also very important for Austria. The IMF forecast for growth in 2010: World economy 4 percent, Europe 0.8 percent, Austria 1.3 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take advantage of the opportunities for growth where they are realistically too! But it does not look very good for Austria, because in those 58 countries that expect growth of more than 4 percent, only 4 percent of our total exports go. In this regard, we will still have to put forth effort, but we have no reason to be desperated. We need more courage in Europe, as a self-confident partner, not as an audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8519	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8540	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's current European hour cannot really conceal it, Mr. Cap, that one has the impression that this federal government has been more lobbying and living for large banks in recent years – even if you are trying to present others. In many areas you have the impression that you are hanging on the gangband of the Austrian bank directors; I am still going to talk about why this is so today. If you highlight this issue – the plans you want to put it into practice today – you have not really set it out specifically – then you have to say one thing: of course, it is very difficult to bind the players on the financial markets into a regulatory framework, but this rule has to succeed. We have seen in the past that all possible regulations have been bypassed by impenetrable visual financial products. We have had to experience that, unlike Mrs Plassnik, the debtors of this financial market crisis are not exclusively abroad or in America. Of course, our banks have been speculating, playing along. Our Austrian banks also have to bear responsibility for speculations that they themselves have lived in the sense of a casino humanity by granting €300 billion in loans in Eastern Europe – without insurance. At the same time, we experience that the Basel II criteria, which have been put into effect, are now killing our small and medium-sized enterprises. They are putting our small and medium-sized enterprises in crisis today because the credit gap from the past is getting worse due to this banking system crisis in which we are in. If you, Federal Chancellor, talk about the need for regulation, I say yes. But where were you, Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, with your Social Democratic Party, when you joined a Hurra scream of this European Union, where exactly this deregulation madness has found anchorage that led us to where we are today? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Deputies Jury and Linder.]] Where were you then? At that time, I missed your contributions to these questions. Propos trust in the banking world, also in Austria. – If I look at Bank Austria, for example, when I consider that in 2009 the mayor of Vienna, Michael Häupl, told his city councillor Brauner that the customer data of Bank Austria – 1.8 million customer data – will be transferred to Verona, when I consider that this data has been outsourced from Austria and that we can no longer guarantee the Austrian Banking Act at all today, even if it is not possible to secure and preserve Austrian banking secrecy for 1.8 million customers of Bank Austria, then I must say that the mayor of Vienna and also the Social Democrats have acted irresponsibly on this question by allowing it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Deputies Jury and Linder.]] – So much on the subject of trust. The supervisory authorities, in particular, are particularly difficult to fulfil their task, especially in Austria, when we are thinking about financial market supervision when we think of the Austrian National Bank. Of course, a lot of words come into your mind: BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria, municipal credit, the Volksbank, which has written 1.1 billion losses in 2009 and which threatens further 863 million losses in the following year, to the Raiffeisen Group. Where was the financial market supervision? Where was she? She failed in all these areas. She failed. And what have you changed up to now in this area of national control? [[towards SPÖ]] - Nothing! In vain, one is looking for solutions to the real problem – and of course this is a problem –: Too big to fail! This is the problem: to large banks, to large corporations that have developed and which, of course, our country is finally taking to the abyss, in fact, taking hostages. With every private company, with every private company that goes into bankruptcy, the state does not jump, but with these large banks and corporations, our company is being held hostage today. There we have to sit, but there you have also failed in Austria, where you need [[direction SPÖ again]] Not to look at them in the European Union at all. Where did you ask the banks to return to their core business by law if they want to cash state aid and tax money, which you have enabled? That would have been necessary. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Deputies Jury and Linder.]] Where are the consequences of the Austrian Federal Government for the banks, which themselves, because of their casino-mentality, have ensnared and speculated money and then called for state aid? Of course, one would like to help, but what consequences have been drawn from it by the Federal Government? – The Court of Auditors is still not allowed to review the banks, but still must not check the balance sheets if they are correct, although the banks have flown billions of taxpayers as state aid. The managers of the Austrian banks have not yet been held responsible. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] To date, there are managers with €3 million, €4 million a year, and we have not experienced anything like that that you would have made legal improvements to any controls. – That’s not a confidence building, you’ve absolutely played this country’s trust in you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8637	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8658	Mr President. High house! Gentlemen on the government bank! Before we come to the really important things, a brief remark to my previous speaker. It's good if you talk more often about the hypo, because I can remind you briefly who has merged with those responsible for this hypo scandal: That was no one but your FPÖ! You are the chairman of the Hypo-FPÖ – stick to the line, I congratulate you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Obviously, you weren't sleepin' enough to keep an eye on it. You need to see how you get along with it now. Whenever you take responsibility somewhere – hopefully not too often – you are able to drive a whole federal state into the graves. Please don't talk about Greece! But now to the essentials. The current European hour – a very important thing. We are now dealing with a subject, but we are also dealing with social democracy, which has brought this issue into focus, financial market architecture and social justice. – Yes, there are also links, but we are talking about the big goals: a socially just Europe, yes, but also an economically sound Europe, and above all – but this is hardly anyone's topic here in from all parties anymore; which is not good; one only discovers it more on the posters with which you change the landscape – an ecologically sustainable Europe, because without the pursuit of this goal, everything else will be half and nothing worth it in the medium term. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But such a thing is possible. A Europe of economic reason is possible. A Europe of social justice is possible, and a Europe of environmental sustainability is only quite possible, but not only possible, but also useful and – and that is the most important – necessary. That is why I am appealing to the group that has voted on this issue, and to others – but that is rather hopeless, especially to social democracy: Don't let the backbone bend constantly from small-format campaigns! Then we can also talk. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, this economic crisis has been caused by a financial crisis. One can now discuss a lot and speculate at this level, which is precisely because of the causes were and what are, so to speak, only consequences, but one thing is clear: In the hour of the crisis, we would have needed more Europe than less than that, because the institutions could have acted differently. There is no such thing to date, that is the point, and then we will come to speak at once. There's no such thing as that to this day! All that we are discussing here and encouraging you is being carried back to the grave at European level, but not by the evil EU Commission, which would suggest something, but by the national Member States that undermine everything, because any provincial princes who act as heads of government are failing it. This is like with the national leaders you constantly torpedo in your efforts, if you have any; for the sake of caution. [[towards Federal Chancellor Faymann]] That's exactly the same thing. Therefore, in all categories of awareness it is necessary to promote that, in certain questions, especially in this, and therefore, Mr Bundeskanzler, one must also take a stand for more Europe and not for less Europe – as can be prevented in the future, which is now so complained. – Of course, only through a financial market supervision that has grown – and that was your topic now – what is happening there. So if it is so – I agree – that international corporations, but more financial institutions are going to work here and in a relatively unregulated market economy – addressed to the ÖVP; it has not been so long since you spoke the word under black and blue; They have even produced a finance minister who has bothered us daily with this neoliberal guild, but who has even cleared everything aside; that was Your Minister, but this has had an internationally-accredited character – with responsibility for landing where we landed, we need institutions today that can get through, precisely because the players who belong to regulated are themselves acting internationally. This must inform everyone – even the FPÖ; You shouldn't always be so nationalistic about it – otherwise that doesn't work what you're asking for. That's why it's the hour's commandment. You have to stand up bravely and tell this thing – and then keep up when it comes to it. What happened? – Michel Barnier, the responsible Commissioner for the Single Market, who, of course, is rightly concerned, has described exactly that: all of this will be undermined again. That is why the approaches to this more socially just and reasonable, more environmentally sustainable Europe are perfectly clear. This requires ecological investment, social investment, accompanied by an economic rationale, which does not just rely on debt. That is perfectly clear, and we could agree on that. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That is why I urge the ÖVP not always to be blind on the social eye, and the SPÖ to open the ecological eye even once – if they have one.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8749	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8771	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of this current European hour, chosen by the SPÖ: “Overcoming the crisis – with social justice and a new financial market architecture”. – Mr Cap, if you let this break on your tongue, you can see: They have probably pushed out a lot in recent months. I always hear statements, including from the SPÖ, like: The crisis is over! It's going up again! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis is just at its height. We will feel the effects in the next few months. The real economy, the small medium-sized economy, which has hardly any more orders in its books, is the sufferers of the economic and banking crisis. They are now under threat, and we have to deal with them, which we now have to focus on in economic policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do not assume that the crisis has already been overcome! We may be in a wave valley, it may be uphill, but it's a pain. We are going back to a very difficult consolidation phase in the next few years. It will be a great challenge for States to avert and finance this economic crisis. What is social, ladies and gentlemen? What is social justice in dealing with this crisis? I've been wondering this all the time. Is it social, Mr Cap, that you are now thinking about new taxes and higher taxes day after day? Who will settle and pay for this financial and economic crisis? – The taxpayer will do this, the middle class will do it, not the bank managers and not the banks will do it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, this is an mistaken belief you are now pursuing that you are actually meeting the banks with a bank tax. First and foremost, you meet bank customers, and you meet the taxpayers again. Because what will the banks do? – It has never been possible to prevent a tax on customers in the history of the economy of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What are you proposing?]] The sufferers will be bank customers – with higher risk supplements, higher interest rates and higher processing fees. This is the practice, that is the reality, even if the bank managers were to be responsible for this banking crisis. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What regulation of financial markets, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cap, Federal Chancellor, are you talking about? What regulation is that you're talking about here? There is no regulation! Since September 2008, we know that we have a banking and financial crisis. At that time, it couldn't go fast enough to get the banks under the arms. We have spent €100 billion on tax resources to secure deposits, secure the capital market and support banks. This was possible in a few weeks. For a year and a half, however, we have been waiting for the banking regulation which cannot be completed in Austria, and there are no measures in this direction at all at European level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, do not regulate the medium-sized economy and not the small businesses, but at last regulate the banks that they will be held responsible to disclose the books! Let the Court of Auditors also look into the banks so that there can be some sort of order here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] People don't understand that anymore. No one can understand that everything in our country, in the European Union, is being overregulated and the banks can do and leave whatever they want. We learn every day from media reports that banks are already operating around, speculating and putting our deposits at risk on international capital markets. Think about what the people’s bank’s idea of origin and the Raiffeisenbanken was 140 years ago! From the farm stand, the Raiffeisen banks have been formed, the banks of commerce and commerce, in order to raise capital for investments, for loans. That was the origin of the protagonists who founded these banks. – How far away are they today from the actual task entrusted to them?- Oh, my God! Today, they go to the international financial markets with money and speculate on everything that is good and expensive. A bar has to be pushed forward to this one, and soon! There, policy at European level has completely failed and has not yet adopted effective measures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler – nothing but empty phrases, no results! Except for fees, nothing has been in recent months and years. The taxpayers are the ones who are now allowed to empty the soup, but who can't believe that the banks have been so provocative here. That's where the saying fits well: The banks are first frivolous, then excruciating and dangerous in the end! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep in mind this statement, that these banking mergers will not be implemented into reality, otherwise the banks will drive the governments ahead and control the governments. Conversely, it must be: Governments should take the banks into account and regulate the banks so that they finally fulfil their task and not speculate the money of taxpayers and bank customers!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8849	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e8871	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Secretary of State! The previous speaker, Mr Buchner, was excited about the non-regulation of financial markets in the EU. [[Calls:Booker]] I ask you: Why didn't you get excited about the Hypo Alpe-Adria? There is a lot to be done, and the taxpayer, the taxpayer, has to get into the bag all over Austria. That is also said here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The woman Schönig in the hypo-supervisory board!]] The Federal Chancellor has repeatedly pointed out to the EU Council – everyone can follow that Austria has been a moaning voice and has always pointed out – the importance of a financial transaction tax at European level, so that those responsible for this financial crisis are asked for the cash. It is Austria, it is the Austrian Federal Government, above all the Austrian Chancellor, who reminds exactly these regulations. But, ladies and gentlemen, growth, employment, competitiveness, social cohesion are not feasible, not possible. There is not only much to do in the European Union, but there has already been much done. There are passages in the EU's primary treaty, articles that not only anchor this equality, but also make it indictable, but have always formulated the corresponding targets. If, now, the EU Commission, the European Council, is discussing the 2020 strategy and is also deciding, there should not be a few of the idea of using the downturn to undermine precisely this equality policy. We all know that investment in gender equality – and this is about discrimination against women, and that is now more than 50 percent – is good investment, is investment in the future, increases GDP and employment. There are concrete measures proposed by the EU Commission, Viviane Reding on the front line, and Barroso has also joined this. There is the EU Charter for Women, where it is formulated and defined, which is important to advance this policy area. It is about equality in the labour market, it is important to formulate targets for women to get jobs, not only in the lowest wage groups, but also for the European social partners to ensure that work is assessed differently – that is – and that, on the other hand, women also have the corresponding positions in decision-making bodies. [[Abg. Kickl: Federal President, for example!]] I'm just mentioning one example: 40 percent of women in supervisory councils – Norway is not a member of the European Union, but is a good example. With its commitment to equality policy, Sweden took an important step as early as 1991, namely that men should also be involved accordingly in this field of policy. It's useful to all of us: It helps men and women when we take a walk. In this regard, we also have a lot to do in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Federal President! It's also a possibility, isn't it?]] On all levels, not only on the highest! When I look at, honourable Member Kickl, how thinly sown in your ranks the women are, I must say: Make a women's promotion plan! We will be happy to help you. Mrs Belakovich is certainly happy if she has several colleagues inside – not only two bank neighbours, but perhaps also a few banking neighbours inside her. [[Abg. Kickl: Go here and make the Kreuzerl at the woman Rosary on Sunday!]] [[Abg. Strache: Choose Mrs. Rosary!]] What is also important to ensure equal opportunities and equal opportunities is, of course, the framework conditions. The Barcelona targets have helped us, but we will need to expand parental care. What we have created here last year with the income-dependent karenz money has already used a relatively large number of men. Parents karenz is important, that is, men and women should devote themselves to child rearing. This promotes women and men in the workplace, because this not only might cause women to fall out of the work process for some time, but both sexes take care of their young. In addition, the birth rate is also higher if the appropriate framework conditions are in place. [[Abg. Strache: So you choose Mrs. Rosenkranz on Sunday? - Very good!]] I would have much to say about equality, and you, honourable gentlemen, are invited to join us. More equality means investment in the future, growth, employment and competition. Help!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9014	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9035	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker has tried to adjust the height of the speaker's desk, while at the same time it is locked to the lowest position and can no longer be set higher.]] – This is meant for smaller people, it can no longer be adjusted higher. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We are currently experiencing the biggest recession since 1930, and all reports on the fraud scandal around the Goldman Sachs Group, which has sold windy financial products to well-belief customers, show more than ever how important a new financial market structure is to enable healthy, sustainable economic growth in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest IMF forecasts for economic growth in 2010 say that China is growing more than 10 percent, India is more than 7.7 percent, the USA is 2.7 percent, and the European Union is only 1 percent. Here there is no need for major interpretations of these economic figures, the fact is: Europe is losing something from its strong position. With only 7 percent of the world's population, we generate 22 percent of the world's wealth. Compared to the US with 21 percent and China at 11.5 percent, we are actually the world's largest trading power. Europe stands in the world for political stability, security, a pronounced social system, environmental awareness and quality of life. But 1 percent growth is not enough to ensure social, economic and environmental standards for the future. It is therefore important that we discuss reforms and try to shape Europe, that we discuss a fair burden distribution after this global crisis, so that Europe can move in the right direction. For example, a European bank levy, whose introduction is also intended by Austria, is an important and correct step that we must take in order to secure prosperity accordingly. We need cross-border crisis management, we need EU-wide political coordination, and we must focus not only on the financial market, ladies and gentlemen, but also, in particular, on social and employment areas. We must give people work, secure income, secure value added. The EU 2020 strategy should also go in this direction. Further improvement of research and development is necessary. I also refer to the climate objectives in which we drive renewable energy sources, use domestic potentials with new technologies, create work, protect the environment and thus restore Europe's position. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has to be clear to us: If you want more Europe, you have to do more ideaably and financially for Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9096	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9117	Who's ruined that? [[The height of the speaker's desk can no longer be adjusted.]] Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Did he break it now?]] I have thank God for a loud voice, so it will also be if the microphone is down below. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember the subject we are now discussing: The current European hour. And with Europe, I suppose, we mean the beloved EU. And then comes the beautiful sentence: “Overcoming the crisis – with social justice and a new financial market architecture”. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe you haven't carefully considered the subject. Are you not aware that the EU itself is one of the main reasons for our financial and economic crisis? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Hö!]] Yeah, I know you're looking at all this as absurd, as I've heard now. But who actually has the say in the EU? Have you never thought that there are international, global corporations, which are completely destroyed by the social conscience? Have you not spoken all the time and even now about the fact that international banks, which also do not seem to have a very high social conscience, are involved in a way that is already worrying? [[Abg. Krainer: You're right! If more people chose the SPÖ, we would have fewer problems across Europe!]] We have the Lehman Brothers, who have now entered, who have been involved in various areas. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Now anyone will say, probably also in the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which now belongs to the FPÖ at once. I am very happy that we now have a bank. Or Goldman Sachs has had something to do with Greece, if I am not fooled by everything. Wasn't there anything? – There they are inside, and they have their lobbyists. And we accept this lobbyism, we take note of it instead of reversing this EU, if we already have it, so that it is not on the tape of any lobbyists, any international, global corporations and huge banking institutions that can no longer be controlled. That's where we have to go! And how can we go there? When we finally get to know what we really want with this EU. Is it a state, the United States of Europe like the United States of America, or is it a state government, as we originally imagined? [[Ui-Rufe]] [[Abg. Grosz: A very English gentleman!]] FPÖ has always been a European party. I remember how you laughed at our ideas of Europe and of the united Europe 30 years ago, 40 years ago. Only, we wanted a Europe of the Fatherlands, a Europe of the independent states, a Europe that is receiving its grown nation states, its grown peoples in centuries, even in part, in thousands of years. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We can't be compared with America, with the USA. They have exterminated the original population. Then they brought the others in and shaved them over a comb. They will no longer succeed, as we know, in the development of Latinos. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Now it will be interesting!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this direction, we need to think and not simply talk about social justice and a new financial market architecture. Financial market architecture, what does that mean? Architecture, architectural activity means planning and then building something. Our financial market situation has developed over the past 120 years, in the course of the development of capitalism, namely shark capitalism. We have to fight it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Social justice is a keyword, but it must be filled with life, ladies and gentlemen! And I also urge our government parties to do so very intensively, because finally and finally all decisions take place in Europe, on which we are so often squeezing our noses, with the agreement of our ministers, with the approval of our Chancellor, with the approval of our vice chancellor or Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, we should think in this direction – instead of giving such keywords to us at a current European hour, which is obviously an hour of embarrassment. Social justice – yes, but first in your own country, with your own resources. Financial market architecture requires effective financial market supervision in its own country and then across Europe. That should be the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9260	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9281	There's something wrong with the speaker's desk – well. [[Abg. May. Gässner: The grill has put that together!]] Mr Grillitsch is to blame, since his speech it no longer works. [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... with the machine ring here!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the title of this current hour to Europe is the word financial market architecture. Mr Cap, I do not think it is enough to point out what is meant by this new financial market architecture, Mr Weinzinger, yes, a comic word. In particular, European banking supervision is meant, and it does not come from the spot, not because of the Commission's inactivity, the Commission is even very active in this context, and not because of the European Parliament, but because individual Member States are beginning to block it again, including Germany and Great Britain. Commissioner Barnier did not take a lead this weekend because of the Council, the Ecofin and the European Parliament's attempts at blockades. I just want to point out that this is just the tip of the iceberg. We need another architecture, I call it the architecture of European financial policy, in addition to a new banking supervision, in addition to a new supervision of the financial market, a very different coordination of financial policies. For the current example, Greece: Greece is academically interesting in several respects – I would say – but extremely worrying in terms of financial and economic policy. And the performance of the EU-15 Euro-zone members besides Greece itself is not exactly impressive in this respect. Since January, there has been an all-rounder here, what to do or what is not to be done. There is a rescue package, so a rescue package that is just ten days old or so. And how did the markets react to this rescue package? – Essentially negative with higher interest rates for Greek loans, higher spreads, higher risk premiums and so on. It's no wonder if you look at it in detail. I'm not going through this, but just as a hint: A good third of this 30 billion euro-zone rescue package will come together from the countries of Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy. That's remarkable. I thought these are the countries that are so to speak behind Greece with their financial problems. And now they're supposed to spend more than €10 billion in a serious case? That's funny, that's pretty funny. And, and, and so. In this context, it is essential to mention that the financial markets, i.e. the potential creditors of Greece, have responded negatively to this package as the commentators in the Financial Times, in the “Economist” and so on are increasingly of the opinion that the default – i.e. the inability to pay – Greece is not just a question of whether, but of when. When will Greece be unable to pay? This rescue package together with the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – may extend this period by three years, because the package is now referring to this time. But then what? This is already an inevitable question, which we are talking about, because it is not so much about the question: Save “we” – under quotation marks; i.e. the euro zone – Greece?, but on the question: Save – or support – whatever expression you consider appropriate here – we support Greece or do we once again support the European banks, namely the creditors of Greece? In this case, it must be pointed out, in particular, that loans to Greece had no speculative character until January 2010. Greece was considered sovereign debtors, as were other members of the eurozone, such as Austria. It was only since January this year that the signs were that there could be real problems. I would like to say a few words on the scale of the problem. There will be a term relevant here, which we all have forgotten – at least I – because it has never played a role in Austria, namely the gross deficit, the gross borrowing of states to refinance old debt, resulting debt or credit for re-indebtedness. In the case of Greece, this gross Atlantic debt is based on the fact that we will have to raise around €50 billion per year up to and including 2015, respectively. This is because of the structure of the Greek loans alone. This was in the Financial Times yesterday. 50 billion per year, totaling 100 percent of the Greek gross domestic product – only for comparison – within this relatively short period of time. Therefore, it is not unlikely to assume that we are actually going to have an Argentine problem or a Brazilian problem, depending on how it works. In Argentina, it's going to be bad on a regular basis. Brazil had a good restructuring of debt. We must talk openly, as far as possible and with cool head over default, that is, about inability to pay – when and with what consequences – so that in such a case no one loses the nerves. It is of course better to think before, how to avoid this scenario. If in the newspapers a little euphemistic about restructuring, rescheduling is talking about, then this means time-limitation for Greek debt. The doubling of the deadlines, for example, was a recipe that in the case of Mexico... – Sorry, the light does not shine. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the ÖVP: All the time!]] [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: This too is broken!]] – This too is broken! [[Abg. May. Kogler: This has already been!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The whole house is coming in! The light's not going! The armchairs are falling down!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: It is the speech so bright!]] Let's hope this isn't omen, Mr. State Secretary. That's very unfortunate. Then I have to end by saying: Werner Kogler is right. We will need more Europe and no less. We need European banking supervision and not a national as before. We need European coordination – if we want to do so – “supervising” but we better avoid this word – of financial policies, especially in the euro area. [[Abg. Grosz: I think the government at all...!]] Everything else is naïve and unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9439	It is now coming, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9460	Mr President. High house! Mr President, you have set the clock to 7 minutes, I assume.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9500	5 minutes!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9515	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! And expect this speaking time. Please don't ask me, because that's with this messy story here...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9538	Excuse me, Mr Deputies, who are seven minutes in the agenda item 1. In the current hour of Europe, each speaker has 5 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9560	So no one knows about the panning industry here in the house! Mr Bundeskanzler, I regret that your partner, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, is not present, because I would have liked to discuss his own statements with him today. Pröll says at the Ecology talks at Raiffeisen-Leasing – I think it is very sensible that he... – I said that I would have liked to discuss this with him very much. [[Abg. Riepl: The pomp is not here! He doesn't hear it!]] So Pröll says: Austria must not become Greece in terms of debt. – This is what the Minister of Finance of this country says! [[Abg. Riepl:... don't ask if he's not there!]] Yeah, they're going to do that to him. Do it! [[Abg. Riepl: But he doesn't hear what you're saying now!]] Austria must not become Greece in terms of debt, says the Minister of Finance. Pröll warns of Greek scenarios in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, that does not mean any opposition politician from the FPK-Hinterbank, but that says the Minister of Finance! Five more statements, ladies and gentlemen, and we have a problem in international financial markets. [[Abg. Head: So, please!]] – Mr. Kopf, you know it very well: I don't want to listen to your masters if this was said several times by the Rostra that Austria is threatening a Greek scenario, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone knows what that means if this does not say Mrs Schmauswaberl, but Mr Josef Pröll, Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor of this country. He needs to know what he's talking about when he says Austria is threatening in three years – he's even given a period of time! – a crisis like in Greece. I think that's remarkable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In my opinion, the Vice-President has done so negligently in dealing with the Austrian reputation, but for self-protection reasons because he still remembers – that is his bad conscience – that he promised the Austrians at the last National Council election that there will be no new taxes. Now he has to somehow prepare the Austrians for there to be a wave of burden that he becomes verbal, and now he says, now in three years Austria is threatening the same as Greece, ladies and gentlemen. In my opinion, this is a negligent way of dealing with the reputation of Austria! I come to the second point. The vice chancellor also said: ‘Greece should be a warning point for non-sustainable economies. Over the years and decades, the country has been passing by with statistics on the subject that a country must also look at expenditure and revenue structures [...].” Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? – For years, yes, decades have it been known that Greece is dim, and no human being intervenes? What else do I need to do for the Commission in order to intervene in national budgets if they are not even able to deal with the twilight of Greece that they have organised for years, even decades, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Now the truth is slowly coming to light. That is what you have disputed during the last debate. Now Mr Pröll says it himself with Raiffeisen. Yes, with Raiffeisen, he – or he has to; I don't know – can obviously talk. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Then Josef Pröll continues: “This crisis has also brought back the primacy of policy towards industry and economic operators.” That's what he says with Raiffeisen, ladies and gentlemen, where he dances as a commander and does not symbolize the primacy of politics. The primacy is there at the Konrad level and not at Mr Pröll, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: At the high seat!]] I really think it's pretty cool what Mr Pröll has been doing there. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But it goes on: “In an extremely delicate situation where the financial and real economy was on the heel, the policy was again called upon to help ‘of course’ at the expense of taxpayers [...].” That's social, Mr. Cap? This is social if Mr Pröll says that banks can do what they want, at the expense of the taxpayer, we will fix it? This is not social as anything, ladies and gentlemen. No bank manager has arrived, and also Mrs. Schaunig, ladies from SPÖ, for her supervisory activity in the Hypo Alpe-Adria – no bank manager except Mr. Elsner. He got a prison, for which others have been held liable, ladies and gentlemen! Elsner is proof of the difference between liability and liability. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That's what he's doing. I would have liked a few more bank managers to take a seat with him in the Grey House. What a healthy effect it would have had! - No, we don't. Therefore, the European level would be called for a better liability right for bank managers, for brokers, for a uniform liability regime also for auditors, for appropriate supervisory standards for credit rating agencies that were co-causers of the crisis, and for appropriate banking supervision for European banks. - Why isn't that happening? [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Great Britain is against it, so the government must not act there. The uniform transaction tax, Mr. Bundeskanzler, can only be introduced in Europe if you do not want to harm the Austrian financial centre. I say to you that we still have a whole package of things that could reasonably be carried out at European level, and that should be done if we really want to bring this sector under control.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9717	Before speaking to the next speaker, I welcome the Austrian member of the European Commission, responsible for regional policy, Dr. Johannes Hahn, very cordial in the High House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with the SPÖ representatives for the Austrian Commissioner Dr. Johannes Hahn, who is among the listeners.]] Next, Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9751	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! To discuss the issue of social justice in the context of a current European hour is, in my view, rather ridiculous, especially if the Federal Chancellor has just said it again today, if we do not regulate it in small sizes, it cannot work. When I hear the subject of social justice and SPÖ, I doubt that this one of you is wanted, but above all I know that you do not have the strength to enforce you towards the coalition partner. You think about how unfair taxes come about, how we deal with tax justice – for example, when it comes to child care costs, where you go a way that the service providers are very likely to be improved, but the beneficiaries of small incomes get nothing, you can't get back taxes, and you can't be relieved of child care costs. We are discussing justice in the EU, but we are unable to ensure in our own country that the small person is truly granted a discharge and that the famous social justice is borne. The next, younger example is the discussion about an increase in mass taxes, which you, Federal Chancellor, want to avoid vehemently, and as you say, we do not need to do so, that is not necessary: We don't want mass taxes. – And then we suddenly hear that there will very well be an increase in the meast – the mineral oil tax. You can say, well, the Federal Chancellor agrees if it is only about increasing the penalty. Again, however, it is true that the little donor, the little housewife who works at Billa and earns 1 000 €, has nothing of it, but the one who earns 8 000 € can very well get up to 1 600 € over the shuttle fee. Dear Federal Chancellor, I say again: We do not discuss social justice in Europe, but we do our homework here in Austria! Let's see that social justice is realized in Austria, and see that you feel the SPÖ to be really there for the little people, to enforce and not to be constantly pulled over the table!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9800	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:53:07]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e9822	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:53:22]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10275	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to adopt the Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 (BFRG 2011-2014) in 660 of the Supplements at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:53:44]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10302	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 5077/J of Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “black tax clouds over Austria – Pröllnocchio 2.0”. [[11:54:19]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10324	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that Mr Oellinger has requested the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the application 11/A concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, a period of until 12. May this year to sit. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10348	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 and 4 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10372	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. A day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 84 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 66 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure to limit the speaking time of each Member to 10 minutes per debate without a club membership. In view of the fact that the television broadcast lasts until 1 p.m., I suggest a deviation from the one agreed in the Presidency at that time. Process before: I propose to hold two rounds of speakers, the first with 7 minutes each, the second with 3 minutes each, the member of the government with 10 minutes. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. We come to the vote on the just proposed speaking time. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:56:26]] 1. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (612d.b._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the bankruptcy order is renamed insolvency order and, together with the insolvency law, the law, the law on court fees, the law on insolvency insolvency, the IEF-Service-GmbH law, the labour contract law adaptation law, the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984 and the Commercial Regulations 1994, and the compensation is repealed (Insolvency Change Act 2010 – IRAG 2010) (651 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10424	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10458	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to come from the general point of view. I remember that the judicial system has too few qualified staff and too few judges. I repeat my request to resolve the financial procuratorship in the sense of the administrative reform. This will result in 92 highly qualified persons who are state employees, about half of whom could be used immediately – because they are audited lawyers – in the judicial or public prosecutor's service. People are pragmatized, so that the salary, which is budget-relevant and effective, is no further budget burden in itself. This extremely superfluous authority would therefore be abolished in the sense of administrative reform and judicial relief, and a cross-border shift to justice should take place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second point: The present draft law, which reforms bankruptcy and compensation procedures and creates a uniform insolvency procedure, which we are discussing now, when a restructuring plan is submitted, as a reorganisation procedure and otherwise as a bankruptcy procedure. In principle, it must be assumed and stressed that this is a very carefully worked matter, which comes from the house, which is the fulfillment of a long-standing reform programme. In principle, when all the proposals made in the course of the debates are finished, there is only a very, very hard core, which remains and which is at issue. However, this is important and essential, because the success of a restructuring plan is essentially related to it. T. After the newly created or proposed § 21, the insolvency administrator shall, if the debtor is obliged to perform a non-money-related performance with which he is in default, immediately after obtaining the request of the contractual partner, declare within a period of five days whether he wishes to hold on to the business. Of course, one has to understand that the nature of the insolvency procedure reflects very delicate, balanced interests. The right goal now is not to break down, i.e. to reorganise, to respect creditor interests and the orderly, structural settlement within the framework of the procedural system – all of this is important and essential. Now it has already been the subject of the debate in the Committee on Justice – and all the experts have also expressed themselves – that this five-day-frist is clearly unacceptable, because it is too short because of the need to consider whether the continuation of a permanent debt relationship should take place. In the Committee on Justice, the major parties indicated that at least a change would be made in the second reading – today – if five working days were to be proposed as a regulation. Otherwise, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays would also fall into this five-day Frist, and one would have to bear in mind that the actual time for the respective considerations might shrink to two and a half days. Now, in the light of the provisions of § 116 of the provided standard, it is especially evident that the mass administrator has to inform the bankruptcy court at least eight days in advance of the following transactions together with the statement of the creditor committee: the conclusion of comparisons, the recognition of disputed rights of isolation and other rights, the collection of appeals and the entry into challenge processes that are pending – I want to save further details now. That is to say, on the one hand, a period of eight days and, on the other hand, a period of five days too short. The damage in all procedural rights is and remains – and all those who have to do with such procedures – the existence of different time-limits, which cannot in fact be explained from a substantial, procedural background. I'll get you together. The five-day deadline is too short. However, this scheme constitutes one of the central provisions of the special private right of insolvency. Therefore, from the point of view of many observers – including the Bar Association's last day – it is urgent to delete this period either at all – which is probably not going to be the case – or to adapt at least system-adequate and manageable. I appeal to the major parties to show insight in the second reading and the deadline of § 21 also the period of § 116, namely eight days – eight working days! – adapt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10535	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10556	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! Unfortunately, in the time of the economic crisis, many companies have become indebted in difficult situations. “Raining instead of ruining” – this is also a statement by our Mrs. Federal Minister – is the intention and goal of the reforms in insolvency law. To help the economy and businesses to secure jobs through renovations, and not to destroy them: This is an important concern for all of us here. Accordingly, this bill was also adopted unanimously in the Committee on Justice, and that is, I think, a sign of commonness. It is all about securing jobs and helping businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler:... trying applause at the ÖVP!]] If one compares the number of company insolvencies in the first half of 2009 to that in the first half of 2008, it is noted that an increase of more than 9 percent. These companies will now also benefit from the innovation of insolvency law. It is now more important than ever, and it is also important, as has been said, to help businesses to secure jobs. The increase in the opportunities for rehabilitation and simplification or modernisation of procedures are key elements of this reform, which, by the way, is the biggest insolvency reform for more than 90 years. – That is also mentioned at this point. This creates a uniform insolvency procedure, which replaces the division in bankruptcy and compensation procedures, which is called bankruptcy proceedings when a recovery plan is put in place in good time. Thus, as a form of the new insolvency procedure, there will be the following types of proceedings in the future: first, the unprepared – usual – bankruptcy procedure; second, the recovery procedure with recovery plan – which also includes areas such as the acceleration of the cancellation of the proceedings from the insolvency file and from the company book when the recovery plan is fully fulfilled. The positive thing about this is that business is no longer hampered by the announcement of an earlier insolvency procedure. Here again, too, we see the important objective of the reform, namely a successful reorganisation. I repeat again – this is very important to me! –: This will ensure jobs. However, I would also like to point out very clearly at this point that, of course, it is about the interests and support of insolvency companies, but not exclusively. – This has to be clear, because the interests of creditors and other contractual partners must also be taken into account – and it has also been the reform, since it is not only about the company side, but also about the side of the one who has delivered something, and also about the third side, namely the workers' side. I would also like to address the process of reorganisation with its own administration. There is an important objective of the new regulation to achieve a timely opening of insolvency proceedings. If the debtor presents qualified documents such as a financial plan – but not just a financial plan – and has a quota of at least 30 percent, he should also maintain his own management under the supervision of an administrator. We can also encourage entrepreneurs to submit an earlier application. Another important amendment concerns contracts at bankruptcy. This change is also intended to encourage reorganisation in insolvency proceedings. Not least, the new insolvency law also includes provisions that counter bankruptcy because of lack of mass. This was certainly very technical from the content, even for the spectators. I would therefore like to give a clear example, namely a recent study on micro-enterprises in Styria. There are around 37,000 micro-enterprises in Styria – that is, companies with less than ten employees. A total of around 97 000 jobs are secured by these Styrian micro-enterprises. The study also shows that the economic situation – as of May 2009 – has been assessed more critically, as the order figures have fallen more frequently than increased over the past 12 months, but long-term market opportunities are largely assessed positively. Most of these micro-enterprises do not have a strong growth plan, but they are committed to maintaining the current size of the company or to growing easily. The strongest growth trends have the one-person company and the company-related and personal service provider or service provider respectively. I think that we should pay particular attention to this, because Austria – not only Styria – is actually on the road very successfully in the field of one-person companies or micro-enterprises, also in terms of securing jobs. It is now important to act properly to ensure the future for our children. New growth for Austria must be stimulated and this novelle will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10604	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10625	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at those who are the main victims of this bill. When we look at the credit protection association's data, we note that in 2009 there were 6 900 companies affected, with liabilities, with debt of €4 billion and say and write 28 100 jobs affected. Among them are, of course, many small and one-person ventures. And one should not only present the glamour of the number of business founders and the company start-ups every year, but also take a look at the shadows. Unfortunately, this is all too much neglected. Debt advice is quite clear by saying that the number of insolvencys has also increased over the last ten years with the increase in the number of business start-ups. And there the Austrian Chamber of Commerce is required to set up appropriate advisory structures to better accompany business start-ups. The debtors' advice representatives say quite clearly or complain that there are no specific advisory structures for self-employed persons at risk of insolvency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is called upon to provide the necessary advice or advice. It is not enough to invest hundreds of millions in advertising and marketing, but there must be concrete help and support. [[Abg. Grillisch: This is what the Chamber of Labour does!]] Last year we saw the example of the traditional trade house “Source” based in Linz, when 1 100 people were affected at a stroke. There is no warning for the year 2010: There has been an increase in company insolvency in 2009 and a much higher increase is expected for 2010. It is therefore very important to create framework conditions to support businesses in order to make business progress and secure jobs. In this respect, we see today's bill, Mrs Minister, as a contribution to this by making arrangements to create clear procedural structures, to prevent bankruptcy and thereby to increase the scope of rehabilitation. We think that a reorganisation plan is an important step, and that it is a concrete approach to implementing implementing measures. And that an entrepreneur has the opportunity to accompany this project in his own responsibility is also an essential approach, just as the measure me, to reduce the capital ratio from three quarters to a simple majority, as it can also ensure that a minority cannot block the majority who are willing to clean up a business. – These are the essential points that we see as great progress and which we believe is worthy of support. But, Mrs Minister, one must not ignore the fact that there are also critical points, such as the fact that the retroactive effect of the opening of insolvency and the ineffectiveness of contracts may be caused by employees and contractors. It would also be necessary to look at the protection of creditors and, as far as corporate ownership is concerned, to pay particular attention to the fact that mismanagement is put to an end – two of the criticisms about which we believe that particular attention is needed. We welcome the fact that one takes an important step in corporate insolvency, but believe that it is important to take this further step even in private bankruptcy and in private insolvency. In 2008 we had 6 300 corporate insolvencys and 8 700 open private bankruptcys. These figures are increasing steadily, even because of increasing unemployment due to the economic crisis. And there is, Mrs Minister, a particular demand for politics. It has to ensure that these households find the people affected by it back into normality by creating procedures that make it possible for them to get out of the vicious circle of debt. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Losing the job, accumulating debt, being exposed to pledges, not finding a job, having housing needs: all this is the challenge that politics has to face. We also need to provide private assistance and support, just as we decide today, to support companies, by ensuring that debt regulation procedures are handled quickly and efficiently. In concrete terms, Mrs Minister – I would ask you to take this as an invitation –: We call for a reduction in the duration of the procedure to five years, a greater flexibility in the terms of repayment and also a reduction in the minimum rate of levies, because that would be a concrete support that would help these people to live a life that offers prospects, a life with jobs and debt. We will, Madam Minister, agree to this bill today, we will support it, but as a commission, as a call to you we would like to give you the following: We expect you to evaluate today's law in two years to check if the criticism points have become striking. And we ask you to give Parliament a concrete presentation over the next few months as to how private debtors will be helped, as we will decide for businesses today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10674	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10695	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a happy day for the Austrian economy today, because we are putting in place measures with this law that benefit the economy, which, as a result, secure jobs, which is useful to all of us. We were up to now. In short – and unfortunately God’s too now – what has happened under Minister of Finance Grasser in the destruction of family silver, we are now taking new ways by taking steps that will secure our businesses in the future. My colleague Sonja Steßl-Mühlbacher will report more precisely on the BUWOG network at this item on the agenda. I'm glad that now, finally, justice is cleaning up with all the things of Grasser and his friends in this causa. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said and what we have been discussing for years now, this law essentially concerns how to ensure at the company's location in Austria that companies do not go bankrupt in the number, as is unfortunately the case. Then: Each single bankruptcy or individual insolvency is one or one too much. And there's been a long discussion: Can the so-called Chapter 11 process from America help here? The difference between our old insolvency proceedings and the American one is that there is a premise that in the crisis the interests of creditors must be pushed into the background and that the claim must be put in the foreground that the company must at least survive. Of course, when a company comes to the crisis, the question always arises: Should we make sure that the creditors get the last out of what is available, or should we ensure that we create a turnaround in the company with the help of an expert mass manager and thus keep the company alive, with the jobs, or with all that the economy as a whole benefits from – and hence, the society. This law is a compromise on the fact that, within the first six months, the insolvency of creditor protection is pushed into the background. This will enable the company to be restructured in these first six months so that it can continue to exist. This means that it is necessary to ensure that creditors do not have the power to disband the company. The five-day Frist, mentioned earlier, is concerned with the fact that the mass manager employed in this period of time has an insolvency company and a request to provide an overview of how the company will see what opportunities there are, how to proceed. This mass manager also has to decide whether or not to terminate existing contracts which are currently not being fulfilled because the company is in default. Until now, it is possible to resolve immediately, so there is no deadline for it. We have now introduced a five-day Frist, in which the mass administrator can become active and the creditor is in no way able to carry out this resolution. So in these five days, the mass manager can see how he can best do with the company. It may be possible that this five-day frist is too short, but that will only prove true. In any case, we have made an improvement in this respect – and this is the content of an amendment that I make formally – when we have determined that the five days are not working days, but working days. That means Saturday and Friday are not included. This is certainly not the “world”, not a question, but it is ensured that at least on the typical days on which mass management contacts are not possible, an extension of the time limit. And all of us, I believe – after this is a matter beyond the subject of a party-political discussion – agree that, should these five working days prove to be too short, we should then either make an extension of the deadline or create a perhaps crystallizing better system and become. I have thus explained the amendment which I made in the past and which, moreover, has been distributed. So, as far as I'm correct, he's standing up for the trial. However, to explain this is Mr President's case. The Rehabilitation Plan provides for a comprehensive approach to be drawn up and for the mass manager to carry out an audit and then to conduct the company together with the management. However, this also makes it clear that the mass manager has a very central or important role to play. I believe, therefore, that we should be all interested in ensuring that the quality of mass managers has a very, very high priority. We have therefore prepared a motion for a resolution setting out that there are mandatory courses for those lawyers who are included in the list of mass managers or who wish to register in that list. That means that this quality proof is to be provided. This quality control is intended to ensure that the high level is maintained, because it is no longer only about solving legal issues, but in particular about having management understanding, such as knowledge on the questions: How does a company deal with a crisis? What does the management look like? How should management act in a crisis? – All these are not legal issues, but central or relevant issues of corporate governance. I believe that it is necessary, with the involvement of the University of Vienna and the University of Vienna, to create training tools to ensure that we can better meet this very central importance of the mass administrator in the future, because it cannot be expected that we will not guarantee the important project to keep companies alive for longer or to keep them in the course of the economy as a whole with appropriate quality assurance. I believe that this law is a very good one that enables a good development. We will certainly improve where weaknesses are to be identified. In this respect, it is important to carry out appropriate monitoring and to look at how this law proves itself in practice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10777	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have been distributed, is considered to be properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10911	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e10932	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to say that my group, too, is in principle in favour of this law. Mr Jarolim's statements are certainly correct in this respect when it is not a party political matter – certainly not! There are a few details that you could or should talk about, but in general this is really a big law, Mrs Federal Minister – I would also like to congratulate you on this: It is a great work – even though parts of it already build on the development that has been made or is running, even if we are built, for example, on the restructuring process with self-responsibilities in principle on the compensation system, or in so far as the remediation procedure without self-responsibilities is based on the existing rules. For example, the reduction of the capital consensus ratio from three quarters to half is forced to be offset by modifications that are important. I've had that checked again. This is also necessary for the approval of the restructuring plan. The quota to be reached for a recovery plan of 40 to 30 percent is also required. The reduction is intended to serve the preference already described by you, Mr Jarolim, for the continuation or rescue of the company. Overall, the modification of the five working days period to five working days is not so unimportant. All lawyers from your profession, Mr. Jarolim, have informed us that this may lead to the fact that an insolvency administrator who comes into a situation in a time-consuming state – a contract is not to be examined within minutes – to be sure: I am not interested in the continuation of this contractual relationship! That is why it is not a matter of extending the time limit for the continuation of the company. In other words, it is necessary to allow a longer period of time for the insolvency administrator to continue the company. In any case, as my colleague Mr Fichtenbauer prefers, we would have preferred a single eight-day frist. If now five working days get out of it, the final effect will also come out for eight days. In the end, however, it is never bad to write in a law as uniform time limits as possible, because handling becomes easier for legal users. It is also better for the standard subjects to deal with uniform deadlines. To that end, the amendment tabled and tabled by Mr Jarolim must certainly also be supported by us. I do not hide the fact that the loss of commercial rights in the event of a bankruptcy proceedings has long been necessary, because there is already a certain amount of wild growth of specialists, who have made a real new profession in insolvency and insolvency due to their own bankruptcy and insolvency careers, because they have not lost their commercial rights. It is therefore reasonable to make it compulsory to waive the right to trade. What we do not like about this law – and it is not a law so good, Mrs. Federal Minister, that one cannot make some improvement from the point of view of the opposition – is the inequality between small and medium-sized enterprises and banks in relation to the issue of combating contracts in the case of rehabilitation. What is the background? – It is true that certain contractual relations can be challenged only under certain, difficult conditions by the contractual partner of the insolvency firm. There, too, the law shows the priority of continuation. This means that the contractual relations necessary for a continuation are to be maintained. On the other hand, in § 25a, there is a limitation of this obligation to continue, i.e., vice versa, an extension of the possibilities of contesting contracts – an exception which is certainly for the worker, because the worker is thus favoured, as I believe it is right, for he is, so to speak, regularly in relation to the insolvenent company, in any case, the weaker part. What is not to be seen, however, is the fact that the banks fall under the same advantage. Specific case: Rehabilitation in need of insolvency, and the Bank says: Although we have pledged a loan, there is a genuine loan agreement, we are no longer paying out the outstanding or yet outstanding loans! Please, Mr Jarolim, there is no one's preference for the continuation of the company at once, because, in some cases, a restructuring may fail by the fact that the financing bank is no longer willing to really release the already promised and contractually agreed loan resources, and instead, can contest the credit agreement, as the beneficiary workers do. We do not see this advantage of the banks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then: Banks, ladies and gentlemen, have to think more about whether they are dealing with a potentially insolvent company than small and medium-sized enterprises have to do. However, this must continue to bear the full risk, including the risk of the failure of the renovation, while the banks can get out fine. And that's not to be seen! Mr Hübner took up this ball in the Committee on Justice and tried to get a rational statement from the government as to why the banks were so unreasonably favoured. However, none came. Perhaps one still comes today, I don't know it could be the star of the wise in this law. But we have not received a rational statement from the government side for this power-political improvement of banks in insolvency proceedings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Of course, the banks are better placed there, and that is not to be seen. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This simple change ensures that the banks no longer have a special position. This special position, ladies and gentlemen, only shows – I return to the previous debate – who has the primacy in this country. Mr Pröll says at Raiffeisen-Leasing that the primacy of politics must be restored. But it is clear that the banks have ordered it, as they have ordered liability; this goes down to the detail. In the case of insolvency proceedings, it is not an essential detail that the small and medium-sized entrepreneur must fully cooperate in the reorganisation, also the risk of failure, but that banks can say good-bye and, in some cases, they may only be at risk of rehabilitation, which in turn must be borne by small and medium-sized enterprises as a risk. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to change this, otherwise you will not receive our consent at second reading – in third reading we will agree. But this important concern should be taken into account in the sense of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11069	The amendment tabled by Mr Bucher, Mag. Stadler, Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues are negotiating. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11137	Next speaker: Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11158	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let's all imagine a manufacturing company that manufactures machines. As a result of the economic crisis, the market can now break down, production needs to be shut down, and running costs can no longer be offset. [[Call at the FPÖ: Has already happened!]] It follows the dissolution of contracts, it comes to bankruptcy. The suppliers of this company are also in turbulence, even with me there are bankruptcys, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to stop this chain reaction. The Insolvency Change Act 2010 is exactly at the right time, the year 2010 is truly not a simple year. This is the biggest reform in this area since the monarchy. It may be time and again that an economic operator is in financial difficulties, that is to say, completely indebted. These entrepreneurs need to be helped, and there must be better chances of survival for these companies. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It is true that the stigma of failure must also be taken by these companies. Again, very briefly, on the essential cornerstones of this reform: It is intended to make it attractive for entrepreneurs to pull the hand brake in good time, to report the insolvency in good time. It's also better that if we have complaints, we go to the doctor quickly and not when it's too late. A signal will also be sent: Careful preparation is to be rewarded. The so-called rehabilitation process will be in the centre, either with self-management, i.e. if insolvency is particularly well prepared, or without self-management. This rehabilitation process should in particular prevent bankruptcy delays. In addition, for a period of time, a kind of protective sign is to be put on the company to be rehabilitated. For a certain period of time, not more than six months, contracts should not be terminated properly. This refers in particular to contracts that are vital for this company, which so to speak concern infrastructure, e.g. electricity supply contracts, leasing contracts vehicles, telephone contracts, or, if you wish, beer contracts. [[Abg. Scheibner: But it's not in it!]] The right of termination, as has been said, is to be excluded for this time. Of course, this is only a matter of terminations, which are expressed for claims that are outstanding before the insolvency is opened – after which, of course, the claims have to be settled, these are even mass demands. As has been said, there should no longer be automatic resolution of vital contracts. I would also like to add something to this famous § 21 para. 2 say, even if this is unfortunately very technical – but very briefly –: It is true that there was no time limit at all in the past. It was so that contracts were simply dissolved. Of course, this solution, this five-day period, concerns only situations where the debtor is still in a state of health, a state benefit has already been delayed. I think the five days – working days are now – are probably reasonable, after all, it must not be forgotten that the contractual partner must also know what the contract is about, whether he can still rely on it. Another very essential point of this reform is that bankruptcy rejections in the absence of mass should be pushed back, because precisely these bankruptcy rejections are very harmful. Firstly, it is not checked at all whether there are still assets or not, and the causes of insolvency are not questioned either. It is also not checked whether there may be a criminal behaviour in this context or not. That is why bankruptcy rejections have to be pushed back. This is to be done on the one hand by requiring the majority shareholder, for example at GmbHs, to make a cost advance. However, the fact that commercial rights are to be withdrawn automatically in the event of a bankruptcy of a lack of mass is also a very important element. Further reform measures: The insolvency procedure should be made more flexible, it should also be streamlined, and the removal of the insolvency proceedings from the insolvency file should be accelerated. It is also essential that the insolvency procedure should be harmonised, that multi-tracks should be avoided. A system of compensation and bankruptcy will become an insolvency order. The procedures will be accelerated, the continuation will be facilitated, which is a very important step in times like this. It will help strengthen Austria's economic location, maintain economic relations and, above all, jobs. Of course, the crisis is not only affecting companies, as has already been noted, but also private individuals, and therefore a working group has already been set up which will deal with the reform of the private bankruptcy. We have this “year to combat poverty and social exclusion, ” and this should be a contribution to this. It is thought, for example, that most of all human fates or external events are observed to a greater extent. Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the company's insolvency right and the planned reform of the private bankruptcy are both contributions of the judicial unit in the fight against the economic crisis. I can still very much thank my House, the judicial body, for the very, very elaborate work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11216	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11237	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! As has already been said by some of my previous speakers and has now been explained by the Federal Minister, what we have here today and decide on is a big throw in the area of insolvency rights. It is a question of keeping as little as possible – the economy is a living organism – the damage caused by the failure of a company, which can have quite a lot of reasons, including indebtedness, within the meaning of the overall system, the economy, but also in the sense of jobs, workers and workers affected by it. In my view, this great throw has been quite successful, and I would like to thank Mrs Federal Minister for her staff, first of all Dr. Mohr and his team, on behalf of my group. I think it was a difficult piece of work to deal with at that time. But I think it's a successful piece of work that makes an important contribution to the business location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I would also like to address some criticisms that have been raised here. One was the question of the deadline. I would like to thank Mr Stadler, who has known that the amendment we have proposed today – five working days, in reality, eight days – is already very close to his group's wish for an eight-day Commissioner. I think that we need to see all the interests that play a role in this period. It is not only about the continuation of the company, the interest in the survival of an insolvency company, but also about the interests of the contractors of this company. The economy and the overall system would not have anything if, in the interests of continuation, other companies had to continue to comply with their contract but still need a decision by the mass administrator within a short time. If we were to extend this period for a very long time, as some have demanded, this would result in the contracting party being in an uncertain, unclear situation. Even more so, he may have been in default towards his contractual partners and would have to suffer negative consequences, with all negative effects also on the environment of this company. I believe it is right to facilitate the continuation of the company, but also to provide for a short period of time. What has been seen by one of my previous speakers as a privilege of banks and has also been discussed in the Justice Committee is clearly misunderstandingd, I would say, even consciously. [[Abg. Scheibner: No! It's not going to be misunderstandingd! That's a fact!]] It is not about a privilege for banks, but it is to be seen that – it is about the fact that credit funds no longer need to be paid out after the insolvency proceedings are opened – realistically, the loan payment of the loan is very close. When is that not the case? – Already in the rehabilitation phase, if a company is already in trouble. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, but the small supplier must continue to do!]] If one did not provide for this provision, that would not be negative for the banks. On the contrary: Then a company that is perhaps already in economic difficulties would no longer be granted credit. And that would be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11296	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11318	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Dear listeners in the benches! I too can only join the just saying: Yes, this law was in principle successful. It has been a difficult work, and the problem situation has also been well solved – unlike many other attempts that have been made, that is not the first and only innovation of insolvency provisions. I recall, for example, the law on the preliminary proceedings in bankruptcy – a pure birth and death of the Ministry of Justice. I believe that, after ten years of this institution, there has not even been a double-digit number of procedures. This is not going to happen to us with this innovation, because it is essentially on the basis of good institutions and two procedures that actually belong together, that are also legally connected, namely bankruptcy and insolvency. Nevertheless: Criticism must be. Nothing is perfect, and this law is also far from being perfect. I come to speak on § 25a, which was addressed. This is the part that regulates the resolution of contracts in insolvency proceedings. Unfortunately, the Minister has not answered again the question why this so-called banking privilege is necessary. Mr Donnerbauer has also given us no answer. This provision is central because the continuation of the company requires a commitment to certain contracts and a restriction on the right of the contracting parties to terminate contracts. That's quite clear. However, this situation is very badly solved in § 25a, i.e. in the present case. There are two problems. The first problem: There is a “gummiparagraph” – § 25a para. 2 Z1, in order to say it precisely – which does not allow the limitation of the dissolution to apply even then, “if the resolution of the contract is essential to the rejection of serious personal or economic disadvantages of the contractual partner”. This is a rubber regime that has rightly criticized very many mass managers and other economic authorities. That is to say, it depends on the discretion of the mass administrator or the commissioner of the court whether he sees a case of resolution or not. If the discretion is contentious, there are years of legal disputes – the worst that can exist. The second problem is the exemption of the possibility of disbursement when it comes to the disbursement of loans. It is not about preventing credit disbursement, but about not blocking the possibility of a termination of credit contracts by banks. On the one hand, this undermines a very central continuation element, i.e. the flow of financial resources for the mass administrator and, on the other hand, the introduction of a non-representable inequality between creditors – in Austria only banks – and other creditors. We will vote in favour of Mr Stadler's request. Point 2 of the para. 2 of § 25a must be replaced. If there is no majority – and I would ask everyone, including the government parties, to reconsider whether we are not approaching a change – we will, in the end, agree to this law, but only in third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11363	Next speaker: Deputy Dr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11384	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can, in principle, follow the remarks made by my previous speakers and also say: It is a very successful law, a law that was essential and ultimately high quality. What was the problem? . We have two procedures for reorganising companies, the compensation procedure and the bankruptcy procedure, and we know that the compensation procedure has never actually come to an end. A number of these: In 2008, only 1.3 percent of all proceedings were conducted as compensation procedures which did not end in a follow-up bankruptcy. But 34 percent of insolvency proceedings have ended in a forced compensation and ultimately in a reorganisation of companies. It was therefore necessary to bring this compensatory procedure, which has virtually no longer been applied, into a single insolvency procedure. I think this is the core of this reform and has also been very, very successful. It has been tried to create several tendencies as the basis of this law, namely, that it is better to continue a company in principle than to destroy it, because the continuation of the company guarantees economic preservation, secures jobs and, ultimately, can also ensure the survival of a company which, perhaps, has also come into a bad economic situation through external circumstances. The second trend is that this insolvency procedure should be notified in good time. An instrument has been created, namely the rehabilitation process, which can also be conducted under the supervision of an administrator with a quota of 30 percent, a decent financial plan and ordinary documents. At the end of the day, however, the reorganisation process can also be phased out in a similar way, and companies can continue to reorganise themselves through this compulsory compensation. In the EU's expert group on restructuring, bankruptcy and new beginnings, the compensating procedure, which has always existed in Austria, was highlighted as one of the best practice examples in Europe. And this trend towards continuation has also been followed. Another thing: I consider the amendment to be extremely necessary from five days to five working days in order to extend the deadline. We'll see if that's what we're gonna do. I think you should observe that carefully and then react. A proposal would also be to consider a so-called ban on fruit and vegetables, which would mainly serve small and medium-sized enterprises. There is still a need for negotiation in this area, but it is basically a decent law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11436	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11457	Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we share the thrust of this novel. It is certainly right to clean up companies where it is possible instead of crushing them quickly. Every job saved in the economic crisis is a help to those affected. Today we decide, as it were, to help companies. We also need help for private people in a next step. It would be likely that private debt will increase especially in the course of the economic crisis, but paradoxically this is not the case at all. I have read that private debt has fallen, and this has the following reason: Banks have less money and can lend less easily. But this is another warning for the post-economic crisis. We need to work urgently on the laws so that the debt spiral does not turn even faster. At the moment, one has the impression that the laws primarily serve to collect debt and not to avoid debt. That is why we need reforms. What do we need? – Ms Justice Minister, we need to raise the minimum of existence. At present it is 783 €. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Who pays this?]] I think it should be raised to well over €900. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Member of the FPÖ wants to know who pays this. This is about wages and executions. It is then simply the minimum of existence covered with a limit of 900 €, among which you cannot go. I'm already at the next point: We need a real minimum of existence. At present we have the problem that certain demands, namely maintenance requirements, can be covered by the minimum of existence. This is very problematic. Not because it would not be important to serve maintenance debts, but because even those affected by maintenance debts need an existence. What would we suggest? – We would suggest that one cannot go under the minimum of existence, but that maintenance debts are privileged debts. This means that first, maintenance debts are served and then other debts, such as bank debt. Put to the point: Maintenance debt must go ahead of bank debt. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: Mr. Justice Minister, we need an interest stop on wage paving. At present we have the problem that if someone has a wage deposit and can just serve the interest rate, for the banks is the most eligible business, because then he pays the interest until his end of life, but the debt mountain does not get smaller. That is, if someone has a wage deposit and makes payments, there must be an interest stop to get out of private debt. Last point: Currently, employers are becoming collection offices of creditors, and we have to hire them. The creditors have the debtor's employer calculate the pay-powder. This not only costs something, but also has a side effect: that indebted persons find a job more difficult, because no employer has joy when someone comes to calculate the wage paving, labor and expenses arise. This means that for workers who are indebted, it is more difficult to get a job, and they will be put into an even more difficult starting position in terms of their personal situation. I expect these reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11506	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11527	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been implemented through the protection mechanism of this law. Member Stadler has already said that we share this in large parts, but what we really lack in this regulation is justice, the same measure of protection, because it is not only about protecting the insolvency but also about protecting the workers – it has been taken into account here. However, it should also be about the protection of small suppliers – and these are mostly small businesses, including in Austria – who come to the handcushion without debt and then perhaps even get into economic difficulties. Mr Donnerbauer, this is unfortunately not just regulated. I bring you an example: a construction company that acts as a general contractor and takes over a small order, perhaps a family house, with subsuppliers, a roof cover, a spengler. The client pays to the construction firm, also for the services of subcontractors. However, the general contractor does not continue the money he has collected to 100 percent, then goes into insolvency – and then it comes: The bank, which has previously granted an operating loan, is entitled to stop the credit payments, while the sub-supplier who has not received any money before is obliged to continue to provide its services. However, the client continues to give the money, not to the subcontractor, but to the general contractor. And finally – especially then, in the worst case, if the refurbishment does not work and there is a failure to connect – the small subsupplier remains without money for his services, while the bank – yes what remains for him? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Mass demand!]] A quota of 10 percent perhaps, in the worst case, Mr. Donnerbauer, while the bank can stop its payments from the date of insolvency. If you say that we need to, because it's about further credit payments, I have to say: Yes, but then probably with risk supplements and additional collateral et cetera! This is the imbalance we criticize. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] This is not at all an accusation to the banks – whose representatives here have held proper negotiations – the question is addressed to the Chamber of Commerce, namely why they were not worthy of the rights of the small business operators as sub-contractors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is our criticism, and therefore the amendment. Read it through and think about it in a few minutes! That would be important in the sense of justice. Of course, we want to help the insolvent entrepreneur, but we also want to minimize the abuse as far as it goes and, above all, protect those who are not guilty of the company's insolvency and then have to pay a token that may even threaten them to exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11579	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11642	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Scheibner, I think again and again: On the other hand, it is quite good to see lawyers sitting in the judicial committee in this House, because I think you did not understand the fundamental concepts of insolvency right. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] You have now spoken of the fact that a small business driver – you can believe me, as a member of the Federal Economic Association, we have to pay something more and have to bear it, but not a bank. [[Abg. Scheibner: They are all worth nothing more to you!]] [[Reassurance of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You all forgot!]] – Mr colleague, if the continuation of a company is made in accordance with this procedure, there is a claim against the masses when a contract is continued. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, what?]] The essence of the claim against the mass is that 100 percent is paid in the continuation case. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now she fails!]] That is to say, precisely the claim where the maintenance of the contract is arranged or agreed in principle, it is in which it receives 100 percent of its claim ; and vice versa when it comes to lending before and after the initiation of insolvency proceedings. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The small supplier carries the risk of failure!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now it fails, what is then?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What if it fails?]] Imagine a company getting a credit shortly before it goes into insolvency, and this credit is not counted yet. Only this case would be affected. What if he had to be counted now, and then in the case of the rehabilitation who needs to rehabilitate the company, would have this huge clot on his leg as well? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I think this law is the sensible means. For there was also the demand of banks to treat a first-class continuation loan. There were many experts who called for this, as many business continuations failed due to liquidity shortages. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Oberjuristin, of the economy zero idea!]] - We didn't do that. Conversely, however, the continuation of the company must be pursued with a reasonable restructuring plan and together with the home bank or a new bank. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You haven't told me what if the restoration fails!]] This law is an excellent means, and I hope that, above all, the rejection of the bankruptcy of mass is restricted by new rules. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who carries the risk of failure?]] That in this case it could not be checked whether the one who went into bankruptcy actually still has money, have really happened to very many small and medium-sized companies for their money. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can only be more superior in the ÖVP, but nothing else!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11829	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11850	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In order to amend the insolvency law, it has already been discussed in detail. In the judicial committee, the rules for this draft law were laid down. A committee that has a very special role for me personally, because the Austrians are beginning to doubt at the judicial level. We are faced with media reports, and the press is increasingly referring to inequalities in investigation procedures. How's a little culprit without a lobby? – I think each of us can answer this question. But how is a suspect who is prominent and supported by a strong lobby? – The public is increasingly given the impression that party-political interventions are possible. Unfortunately, the Causa Grasser/BUWOG – to name it – also shows that the competent minister always comes only one answer: It does not want to intervene in ongoing proceedings. [[Abg. Wheeler: Hello!]] I think it is a duty to ensure that the same standards are applied in all procedures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps the former Minister of Finance was declared “Persona non grata”, he may have been waiting a long time for regular invitations. It seems to me that – with this I give a general mood picture – it is prevented from putting light in the dark. It is therefore an obligation of the Austrian rule of law to treat all parties equally in a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11891	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11912	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are discussing a major and important innovation in insolvency law. I am very confident that this will speed up – that is intended – the process and that it will actually achieve jobs, that we will receive value added and that we will also be able to obtain assets. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] As long as an insolvency is not deliberately brought about – not criminally, whatever happens again – I believe that all parties have a great interest in ensuring that a business is run as quickly as possible. It's going to be made fluffy again. This is to be achieved mainly by reducing the quota from 40 to 30 percent in the normal compensatory procedure, while also allowing for self-management. I believe that this can indeed be a great incentive, especially for those entrepreneurs who are indebted, for example by the economic crisis, to insolvency and in this way have the opportunity to keep the reins in hand in the operation. The current compensating process will in future be called rehabilitation plan, which is certainly a more sympathetic representation. It also seems important to me – this is a declared objective of this novel – that there should be a minimization of bankruptcy procedures, especially of bankruptcys in lack of mass. As the new regulation will work in practice, of course we will only know exactly in a few years. It will also be evaluated. Personally, I very much hope that smaller creditors will come to their money more quickly in the future, and that banks, especially major believers, will not continue to be able to block procedures. This is also largely limited with this new novel. In any event, I hope that the overall success will be that businesses will be able to resume their work relatively quickly and, above all, that they will benefit from this innovation in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11958	The next speaker was Mr Köfer. To be desired speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e11979	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! “Insolvency Reform on the Chicken”, said “The Press” in its online issue of 8. ==References== It is therefore all the more gratifying that, in the Committee on Justice last week, all five parliamentary parties agreed on the amendment of insolvency law and today should be approved. With this, the law can finally enter into force at the beginning of July, half a year later than originally planned. This is also good because this reform actually benefits everyone, not only the workers but also the entrepreneurs and the creditors, but above all the economic location of Austria. Especially in times of this economic crisis, impulses as they are based on this reform are important and very necessary. Finally, there were 29 company claims daily in 2009, which is an increase in company insolvency compared to 2008 by 9.2 percent. At the beginning of this year, all experts agreed that the end of the flag rod has not yet been reached at Weitem. For example, Hans-Georg Kantner, the director of the 1870 credit protection association, charged a further 12 percent increase in company insolvency on the record of 7,500 pleas for this year. These dramatic fears have not been confirmed until now; I stress: not at first! In the first quarter of 2010, there were 0.8 percent fewer company insolvency than in the comparison period last year. This is a silver strip on the horizon, but that's all. Therefore, it remains to be hoped that this reform can contribute to preventing a wide range of future insolvencys. The stated objective must be to obtain companies instead of liquidating them. The purpose of this reform is to increase the opportunities for rehabilitation and to prevent bankruptcy in the absence of mass. This novel is also an attempt to achieve greater rejuvenation. I would also like to: A positive mention has been made of the fact that this innovation has been put on track with the involvement of the social partners. However, I would like to warn against having only the development of the company's pleas in mind. Attention and a watchful eye also deserve the increasing number of private bankruptcys. Unlike company insolvency, private insolvency in the first quarter of 2010 increased by 6.6 percent compared to the first quarter of 2009. This development, which, according to experts, will continue, is, as I believe, a number of social explosives in itself. Finally, the gap between the poor and the rich in Austria is further deepened. This – not least in order not to create social tensions – has to be firmly countered.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e12024	The last speaker to speak was Mr Pack. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e12046	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in economically difficult times, it is logical to take all the measures necessary to ensure the restoration and continuation of a company which is, for example, indebted or indebted as a result of the economic crisis. One of my previous speakers, the first speaker of my group, Ridi Steibl, said it right: Retting or refurbishing instead of ruining is the motto of this novelle. That's right. After a long discussion, we now have this draft law. The main points of the current reform are also proposals developed by the Chamber of Commerce. Especially in view of the current situation – my predecessor from SPÖ has mentioned the expected rising numbers of insolvency – it is a real step that we are taking here. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the most important thing is that we put the company in the foreground in this novel. Of course, it should also be stressed that although the law provides the appropriate basis, it is of course the sole concern of the company concerned to take this possibility of procedure in good time. To my predecessor Mr Steßl-Mühlbacher from Styria and to her speech on “Light in the dark” you can only ask: What about the SPÖ Foundation in Styria?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e12083	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 612 of the Supplements. The following amendments were tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues, as well as amendment by Mr Bucher, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these amendments in accordance with the classification of the draft law and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which is in the form of an amendment. 1 C 10 and 11. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Members of the European Parliament. 1 C 14. Whoever joins this amendment, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 1 Z 14 as amended by the Government template. Whoever gives his consent to this provision, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues on Rule 1 Z 63, Art. 3 entrance and Z 6, Art. 5 Z 47 and Art. 8 Z 3. Whoever joins these amendments, I am looking for a sign of confirmation. – This too is unanimous and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the 651 committee report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 89.) [[13:12:26]] 2. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (650 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the general Civil Code, a Federal Act on Consumer Credit Contracts and other forms of crediting for consumers (Consumer Credit Act – VKrG) and amending the Consumer Protection Act, the Banking Act, the Insurance Supervision Act, the Securities Supervision Act 2007, the Investment Fund Act, the Payment Services Act, the Commercial Code 1994 and the Agents Act (DaKRÄG) (652 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e12184	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Donnerbauer. Preferred speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e12214	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As already announced, we are now dealing with the loan and credit law amendment law. I should like to discuss the main guidelines as follows. We have to do with the fact that on the one hand, changes are taking place in the ABGB. The historical provisions on the loan agreement, which was a real contract, will be put on modern legs with these changes; it will be a consensus agreement in the future. And what the least know: The loan agreement, which has not yet been found in our ABGB, but is derived from the loan agreement, is now expressly mentioned in the ABGB for the first time and is also legally normized as a loan agreement. - That's the part. The second part concerns consumer protection provisions, namely the implementation of the European Union Consumer Credit Directive, which had a long history at European level and is now being implemented by us as one of the first countries in the European Union. The main issue is that for consumer credit, the credit of a credit company to a consumer, to the extent that it exceeds €200, a variety of consumer protection/consumer protection provisions, which have been partly divided into different materials in Austria, such as the Banking Act, the Consumer Credit Regulation, the Consumer Protection Act, on the one hand, and on the other hand, new consumer protection provisions and a new level of protection for consumer credit are introduced and implemented on the other hand. For example, it should only be mentioned that in future advertising for credit contracts must contain certain legal information. An example, a representative example, must also be translated into advertising for consumer credit. Pre-contractual information obligations of the creditor shall be defined. A form is also provided for in the Consumer Credit Directive, one to be implemented and one to be used by credit firms. For the first time, there are legal obligations of creditors for credit assessment. So far, it has been at the creditor's discretion to consider the extent to which he has carried out credit reviews; in the future, there is also a legal obligation to check accordingly the creditworthiness, the credit quality of the consumer seeking a credit. Even if framework conditions change when a credit is renegotiated during the term when it is increased, at least the relevant information must be recovered and an audit carried out by the credit institution must be carried out. There are also rules concerning the information in the issue of the credit contract. It is now for the first time also the right of the consumer to require at any time an up-to-date and updated eradication plan containing the rates, interest rates and costs. There is a right to withdraw from the credit agreement during the first fourteen days. In the future, there will also be possibilities to make early repayments for contracts at certain times, with the compensations already in place in these cases for the incidental repayment in the future. There are also provisions for a right of termination in the case of credit contracts at an indefinite time. In all, it is a quite comprehensive work, and I should like to conclude by bringing forward a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim and my colleague, Mr Jarolim, who has been a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. On the one hand, a change in § 7 para. 5 refers, so that here for certain credit assessments under the Consumer Credit Act § 28 para. 2 Data protection law 2000 does not apply. In addition, this amendment contains a transitional arrangement for certain formal provisions up to 31. ==References== In the last place, certain print errors have been taken into account, including in the form in the Annex. I ask the President to ensure that this amendment is distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e12268	The amendment has just been supported and has been sufficiently explained in rough points as well as in essence. According to § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure are distributed in the hall. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13265	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13287	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Consumer Credit Act, which is adopted today, sets a milestone in Austrian and European consumer policy: For the first time, there are clear rules for lending. A study by the Chamber of Labour, published on Monday, confirmed the deficits currently in the lending process. Banks do not comply adequately with their information obligations. Today's proposal, which we will decide, sets out binding, absolutely binding directives that banks will have to comply with when it comes to lending. The loans will be comparable across Europe. There is a standard European information sheet. Credit checks are carried out which are necessary, both for banks and for the protection of creditors. Foreign currency loans – if they can be granted to private individuals at all – are subject to special warning and information requirements. What is essential from a consumer policy point of view: For the first time, a loan may also be paid back in advance! It was always a problem in the consultation that banks did not want to accept it if borrowers wanted to repay a loan in advance. I believe that in the future there will be a fourteen-day right of withdrawal from such credit agreements. This is the first time that we have been This is very important – I see a lot of young people here today – especially for the younger generation. We have repeatedly experienced cases in which young people 18 years of age and 20 years of age have committed themselves to credit contracts, and after a week they have insisted that they cannot serve the credit at all. This was the case with car purchases as well as with the purchase of living space. With a 14-day withdrawal period, you can still consider whether you are able at all to fulfil such a credit agreement. I have already pointed out that credit checks are now mandatory. We have some problems here, and Mr Donnerbauer has already tabled an amendment. I may request a motion for a resolution. Maier, Mag. Introduce thunder manufacturers with regard to the use of data by credit providers and quality standards for information-based systems and credit-scoring. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you know the problem of credit information. There is hardly any regulation in the trade order. We now know, by an opinion from the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, that there is a legal regime for the ministers of the economy. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you to accept the motion and this resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13357	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, in terms of content and hence in terms of debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13464	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13486	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We too have already agreed to the Consumer Credit Act in the Committee, because we think this is a very good thing, for a regulation that is very useful. A directive of the European Union will be implemented here, and we believe that it will be implemented in a very useful way, because regulations are also being made beyond the framework itself. The scope also refers to loans of more than €75 000, including mortgage loans and financial leasing contracts. As a result, the whole thing in its complexity is much better understood and better regulated, i.e. a very welcome thing. A small drops of wormwood are always in such things that one has concerns to agree to an overregulation as well. This is, of course, always the counter-police if you want to protect the consumer. There is always the danger of talking the word out of human mouths and shooting it beyond the goal. In total, however, it is a successful law, and we are therefore, as has already been said, agreeing and agreeing. In the context of overregulation, foreign currency credits and pre-contractual information requirements were also addressed, which, of course, makes sense and is correct. It is also important to provide for this by law. The question will only be whether in reality a rage of information will be brought back to the people and then they will not be able to cope with it and will not be able to accept it at all. As always, this is the problem of overregulation. We also expressly agree with the request that Mr Maier has just made, because the assessment of creditworthiness is indeed an essential problem. There is a very large manko here in Austria, because there are private associations, companies that provide information, and that is very problematic. We have repeatedly experienced cases where black points are awarded, which then officially do not exist, where one is locked down at banks, although previous loans have already been eliminated, because an information has not been passed on. There is indeed a great need for action, and we hope that this request has been given the incentive to do something about it. We will take part in finding a corresponding legal change.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13525	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13546	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! The new consumer credit law is certainly a clear progress in terms of consumer protection, especially in relation to the really unsatisfactory protection situation that we find at present. It is certainly beyond question that this is a progress, and we will therefore also vote in third reading. However, since we and the government parties have set out so many advantages, I would like to say that we do not think it is as big a throw as it is presented. I have already discussed in great detail in the Committee on Justice the massive deficits I see in this presentation. This assessment, this very critical assessment not only comes from the Greens, but it is also shared by the Chamber of Workers and the debtor's advice. These are institutions that are confronted with people every day, working with people who are not able to control their debts, who have pay-as-you-go pledges, who are depreciated, because they have income, but are no longer eligible for payment and so on. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister has not been impressed by these critical opinions. It did not respond to the relevant criticism in the Committee at all, but replied with this typical political statement: Well, it's a compromise. Mrs Minister, of course, every proposal that makes a coalition government is a compromise, but I would like to make it clear here that it is the interests of this matter. On the one hand, there are private households, families, who in some overpriced loans, which they cannot actually afford, immerse themselves and only very, very difficult to get out of this debt situation or do not manage it at all. These households have a massive interest in fair conditions in the credit business and truly clear information they can understand. - That's the one side. On the other hand, there are the banks, the money institutions, the lenders. Of course they do a good business, plenty of profits with consumer credit, and they have last At the end of the day, there is no interest in changing this situation. So, now there are these interests! And what does the woman minister do in this situation? How does it reach a compromise? Does it, for example, benefit from the fact that all of us here in the House have not made billions of money available to the banks for too long, so that they can get their own financial problems under control? Does it use this very fact to achieve a maximum level of consumer protection in this compromise? No, ladies and gentlemen, she is not doing that, but she is “only” – under quotation marks – to a presentation that has massive gaps from the point of view of both the Greens and the Workers’ Chamber and the Debt Advisory. Mrs. Minister, you have in a situation where it would have been time to get on the table and say: Now it is time for a maximum of consumer protection!, willingly concluded a compromise with the banks. That was a time window you didn't use! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot therefore be truly satisfied with this government proposal. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to explain all the details now; I have already done so in great detail in the Committee. So just briefly to give an impression: It is, as it were, a question of bringing what we consider to be gaps into this law. I would now like to make one more request, namely an amendment: The National Council wants to decide: The Government template (650 of the Supplements)...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13639	Excuse me, Mrs Ewing, for interrupting you, but we do not yet have the requests made in writing at the Bureau. Therefore, at the present stage, we cannot verify whether there is a context of content. This is undoubtedly true of the oral speaker, but it must also be submitted in writing. I would remind you and your group that the requests have to be submitted to the Bureau. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13654	Okay. I'm going to recapitulate this later. I hope that the applications will then be submitted. Finally, this amendment – I would like to explain to him briefly – is about amending § 25 Consumer Protection Act and finally equating the depositors and depositors with the guarantees, guarantees and co-debts so that they do not unwittingly take an excessive risk if they are involved in credit. You should actually know this request because I have already submitted it in the form of an initiative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have this very concern, namely the protection of depositors, also in your government programme. As part of the first reading of this initiative, Mr Grillitsch, who is unfortunately not here, made it clear that a corresponding change will take place in the context of the implementation of the EU Consumer Credit Directive. So, now we have the implementation, and that has not been done. I therefore give to Mr Grillitsch – and I assume he has spoken on behalf of the entire EIA – once again the opportunity to speak by agreeing to this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear: This request is expressed in whose interest you are making policy here. On the one hand, we have consumers, creditors, depositors, hundreds of thousands of people in Austria; on the other hand, a few banks with the primary interest in profit maximisation. And now tell me, Who do you feel politically committed to? That's the question!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13699	There is now also the amendment you have tabled. I'd like to check him out very briefly. – Yes, the amendment that has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a context of content and therefore also in negotiation; as is the motion for a resolution tabled, which is also under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13868	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13889	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This matter is not, to the extent that it is ideological or worldlyly or politically charged, how it might be derived from one or another contribution. It is basically a very sober subject matter, which closes a regulatory deficit which was present domestically and which has so far been closed only by the Consumer Credit Directive of the European Union. Now it is also included in national law, in the law. We will agree to this matter of law. It is, in principle, reasonable. But the proposals – I have already said, Mrs. Federal Minister, nothing is so good that it could not be even better – which Mrs. Maier has made or colleague Schatzl, the Greens – honey, excuse; that is the slope of the Vorarlberger to the Diminutive – which Mrs. Colleague has made treasure seems reasonable to me. [[Abg. May. Honey: Honey!]] Mr Maier, I would just like to ask that the question of the origin of the data be taken into account in what is to be drawn up here. [[Abg. May. Maier: Stand in there!]] That's right, in the text of the resolution, in the Preamble. - Good. This is important to me. The data source is not irrelevant: Where did the data come from? What happens then is only the next consequence. Here I have reason to believe – I do not want to repeat it, Mrs Federal Minister has told me in committee, I am happy to note this too, but it is sometimes very doubtful where the data comes from, which can then be transmitted via credit information companies and sometimes misused, which can be caused by the consumer. As far as the Greens' proposals are concerned, in particular as Mrs Schatz has also said in committee, we believe that they should be supported. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is indeed so that it is not to be seen that you take out loans below €200. For many people in this country, unfortunately more and more people are 200 € very much money. If one assumes that in times of crisis, for example, the entire mortgage is increasing, where it is not about large amounts, then 200 € is no longer insignificant. These are those people who have to live from 200 € for a time. I personally know such people because they are usually assigned as procedural assistants, people who just can't afford anything more. For these people, 200 € is sometimes a large amount, but it is the protection regime, which applies to everyone else, not available to them. That's not to be seen. It is also not to be seen that there is no provision for banks to have to communicate to the customer free of charge the change in the fixed interest rate – we could still talk about the quarterly account statement. I have already told you that this would be included in the question of the loan contracts. If one can include leasing contracts, why not pledge loan contracts? Mrs. Federal Minister, the number of pledges – you will notice or have already found it – is increasing in times of crisis. I have always been a representative of the establishment of a trust register. Mr Jarolim! I know your profession or my profession is against it, it's not happy with a mortgage register. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I'm for that!]] - You're for it! I am also for this because sometimes people can only get cash at all. They make a corresponding pledge for this, and I do not see why the pledge loan contracts are being concluded here. It has not been excluded from lease agreements, although they have a very different nature from the rest of the regulatory framework, as Mrs Schatz does in the statement of reasons for her request. I also have to say that what is happening to foreign currency loans is only partially fixed. The customer must have the opportunity to convert back to the euro at any time. He can't do that at the moment, while the bank can do it at any time. It can change immediately if it fits her. The customer must also have the opportunity, if it is shown that the banker will be invalid or does not promise what the bank has promised him before – because this also goes back to consulting the bank – to turn it into a credit of interest. As far as mortgage credit is concerned, it does not seem plausible enough why a difference is made here. Also, the handling of trust agreements is not unusual and takes place in legal practice and business practice. On the last point, I have a supplement to the Greens' request. If, in the future, an arrangement is to be made for the intermediary to have a right of withdrawal, then I think that the consequence should be consistently linked to the fact that the credit business as a whole is going through with it, because it cannot be that someone takes up a credit, calls an intermediary as a guarantee and then 14 days later, I have now thought differently, but the credit relationship is still upright. This cannot be, but it would have to be the compelling legal order that the credit ratio would then be practically dissolved as such, so that it would have practically a right of resolution. That seemed right and cheap to me. Otherwise, we will support this proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13959	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e13981	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Consumer Credit Act means more rights and more information for borrowers. This is especially important for the young ladies and gentlemen, such as those here on the visitor gallery, because you have to be really well informed before you get a credit. What are the signs of this law? – On the one hand, the signal that a borrower has to make decisions in this area, of course, independently and independently, and – even this signal is supposed to assume – that debt is to be repaid in principle. It is important that, for the first time, there are uniform rules on the credit agreement. By the way, the ABGB – which will be 200 years old next year – contains provisions on a loan. But there is still talk about the so-called sounding coin. So you can see how old the law is. It now needs to be renewed gradually. As has been said, the credit agreement is now, for the first time, uniformly regulated, and I believe that it is transparent and very understandable. The Consumer Credit Act now includes not only banks' information obligations but also a right of withdrawal. We have already heard it, it also includes rules on the type of advertising credit – for example, representative examples need to be mentioned. The law also provides that the bank can at any time require a repayment plan with repayment rates or information on interest and cost of the loan. A credit assessment is also required by the creditor. If the creditor has doubts about credit quality, he must point out this – in the event of other administrative penalties. The withdrawal of the funded contract now automatically also leads to the withdrawal of the credit agreement. That means: This law also regulates the so-called related contracts, because the borrower who buys a car, for example, is of course interested in the fact that these contracts experience a similar fate. Very briefly: A law, of course, is based on a compromise of different interests, which is now the case in the legislation. I should like to warn against overregulation, because this does not bring anything to the consumer or to the entrepreneur. Excessive consumer protection would be very expensive. Who's gonna pay for this? – I believe that there has been a very good compromise here. The accusation that I would only do what banks claim to require, I would like to reject vehemently. Banks think quite differently about this law. As I said, I think we've found a really good middle way. Madam President, you have asked me who I feel politically committed to. I can tell you: I feel politically committed to the people of this country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14033	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Ikrath. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14054	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If one has listened to my previous speakers, the colleague, Mr Stadler, but also Mr Stefan, who sees this somewhat more differentiated, then one has heard the principle of principle, which often appears as a guiding principle in the field of consumer protection: More is better anyway – more information, more rights. I would now like to extend this by an essential aspect. A more is also increasingly expensive – more expensive for the industry, which is the norm-based address of this legislation and has to be implemented as a result. What I miss so painfully in the legislation on consumer protection, both at European and national level – you were now very good examples, ladies and gentlemen – is the following balance of interest: What is a useful increase for consumers? What is a little useful, but expensive, more? And: What is an absolutely counterproductive lake? I bring an example: Last year, in the Securities Change Act, we recorded a flood of additional information for the consumer. What was the result? The consumer feels absolutely overwhelmed. And the same ones who represented this more vehement at the time, among other things the Greens, now want so-called "packet" to make the information digestible to consumers in simple form on two sides. [[Abg. May. Honey: He's a bank representative!]] That is to say, one has first created enormous additional costs and then it has been assumed that this does not mean any added value for the consumer, quite the contrary. Now I'm asking you a question: Who's to pay for this? You could continue with the song now: “Who has so much money?” – Payment must ultimately be paid by the customer, so the consumer. That is why I think we should be very specific, very careful. My colleague Rudas is not here now, but I would now be slightly creatively adapting her sage to the taxes: There is a “good” more: benefits the consumer, and a “evil” more: benefits him nothing and only creates additional costs for him. [[Abg. May. Honey: The banks judge that!]] Despite “gold plating”, this law has found a reasonable balance of interests, between the added value for consumers and the costs that are caused by it – € 150 million per anno for the credit economy at least! [[Abg. May. Honey: Sure from your point of view!]] I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Justice on the need for long negotiations. However, I am also pleased that we will now adopt an amendment to ensure that the standard subjects – in this case, especially the credit industry – will be able to implement the law that we decide to implement through appropriate transitional periods. This too is a task for Parliament, namely to ensure that standard subjects are able to comply with laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14126	Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14148	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This innovation is certainly an important step in the field of consumer protection. It is gratifying that it is also possible at European level to create consumer-friendly schemes. European consumer protection organisations have articulated reform needs. The EU institutions have submitted a scheme in the interests of the people. Originally, the EU Commission provided for a purely minimum harmonisation, but the evaluation of the application and the impact of the Directive showed that more stringent national rules distort competition. Therefore, from the EU's point of view, the EU Commission now requires full harmonisation in the event of sufficient consumer protection. To this end, I would like to say: As far as full harmonisation is concerned, the Greens' request goes beyond this directive. That is why my group cannot accept this motion for a resolution. But what we think is very useful is that there should be an evaluation after one or two years. This is certainly necessary, but we do not consider a change of law to be very useful. For the first time, a detailed regulation on consumer credit has been introduced in the Austrian legal system. There are a variety of regulations, and because of this variety there are also various corresponding adjustments in other laws: A change must be made in the Consumer Protection Act and also in the Realtor's Act. This is also a advertising drop in this regulation in the new Consumer Credit Act. There is always the danger that such an extremely complex legal structure will no longer be transparent for users. However, the Austrian regulation states that this new consumer credit law in the national field, i.e. national scope for design, has created a semi-unity and manageable law. In my opinion, it is also important that this new regulation on consumer credit also amends the loan agreement in the ABGB. That too is an important step. The Minister has already mentioned it, the ABGB celebrates 200 years next year. This is the first step towards modernising this project ABGB. We will support this important step in consumer credit protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14196	Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14217	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! There are no rules on consumer credit so far. Today, we are implementing an EU directive which, as we have heard many times, ensures much better protection for individual consumers in the area of loans and loans. I would particularly like to highlight the newly created right of withdrawal. This will enable a consumer to withdraw from a contract within 14 days without giving reasons. For example, someone who has unthinkingly received a loan can simply withdraw the contract. This is not possible under the current law. In the event of a loan being used, a borrower has so far faced very complex bank contracts. They all know the general terms and conditions: often marked in small print somewhere. For an inexperienced consumer, these are often not to be seen. The professional superiority of the bank is too great for most consumers. This new law now provides that banks have detailed information obligations to their customers when entering into a contract. There are a total of 19 points on it. Listed. If a bank does not, the contract can be terminated at any time. The creditor must be allowed to withdraw if the notice of withdrawal corresponds to the information he himself has given to the consumer. Furthermore, a strict credit assessment is planned for the award of loans to customers. All in all, it's a good rule. Consumers benefit from this. A good balance of interests has also been found.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14263	I call Mr Fazekas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14284	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Lending and Credit Rights Amendment Act has taken a very essential step towards protecting consumers, as has been mentioned several times today. It is a law implemented under the Consumer Credit Contracts Directive. This also leads to European harmonisation and harmonisation of standards. From my point of view, this is a measure that also shows – this morning we have discussed the European Union – that this Union can work very close to the citizen, because it is directly on the citizen and on the citizen. I should now like to add a happy aspect. They will all be able to remember the TV series “A real Vienna is not going under” when the young “Karli Sackbauer” needed a credit for the renovation of an apartment. There was very good and plausibly shown which problems are associated with it. This is really to be used, even if it's just a TV series. You've also seen how important the information is. But you also know: If you get information sheets in abundance and urgently want to finance something, you sometimes don't care what you get there – then you often use them without reading them. Therefore, this right of withdrawal, which has also been referred to several times, is particularly important – in the event that one then insists that what one has signed is not useful. However, it also applies in general that in the field of prevention in order to prevent financial disasters, particularly information and knowledge of the impact of the consequences is given particular importance. I appreciate the aspect of young people who are offered mobile phone contracts, internet contracts, fee-based downloads and much more. I also welcome the initiative of Federal Minister Hundstorfer to act informatively in the field of schools. But I think that we also need to talk about a change in the field of private bankruptcy. In this sense: a very good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14320	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Nice to meet you. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14342	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This new consumer credit law, which – which is undisputed and has also been confirmed by all previous speakers – brings far-reaching and substantial improvements to consumers, but also more transparency, sets out previous regulations and implements the relevant EU Directive into Austrian law. The directive creates, as has already been said, uniform standards and rules in relation to consumer credit transactions across Europe. The law provides for extensive information requirements. It provides for a 14-day right of withdrawal for consumers, arrangements for early credit repayments and for the usual financing leasing contracts in the consumer sector. Among other things, creditors must provide consumers with much more comprehensive, standardised information before the conclusion of a credit agreement, but also credit intermediaries, than has been the case so far. All of these measures – because they were already talking about the balance of interests – have made a very clear assessment, namely consumer protection, and this is good in this case, but of course also with a great deal of attention. In total, this package will be used Ensuring greater transparency, clarity and security for consumers in the financing jungle of providers. More clarity and more transparency, this causes us today to call this law – if we don't want to say big throw, I would say anyway – quite successful, especially when we think that the negotiations were not always completely non-fractional. That is why I would like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14381	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Pendl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14402	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that everything has already been said in this regard. The colleagues, from Donnerbauer to Jacky Maier, worked out the contents. It's a consensual matter. I think that was good, right and so seen by everyone. On the individual speeches: Mr Stefan said that the FPÖ is carrying this novel – I am really pleased – but he has also pointed out the case-by-case overregulation. My colleague, honey, said we should regulate a lot more. Mr Ikrath, of course, worked out the area of credit management. I believe that it has become a good compromise – also in terms of content. And I believe that a good compromise should also be made in all public and in all clarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is a real, important, necessary step for all, I would say once. That's what characterizes this template. I believe, Mrs Federal Minister, in the Justice Committee, it is a long tradition that we also work well with the ladies and gentlemen of your home. I would like to thank you and your officials very much for this. I am pleased to invite all of you to give your consent to this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14445	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. As an extensive amendment was tabled in the short term and a brief interruption of the meeting to prepare the vote is not sufficient, I shall refer in accordance with § 65 para. 1 Rules of Procedure, vote on agenda item 2. It will take place following the vote on agenda items 3 and 4. We are continuing to complete the agenda. [[13:58:23]] 3rd. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (649, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act (663 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 143 i.a. Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG (664 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14499	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Spadiut. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14526	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The longer the debate on the Listeria scandal takes, the more curious the statements of various colleagues. For example, Mr Rasinger said in committee: Symptoms of diarrhoea and vomiting occur at the beginning of Lister Rosis are an indication of a lot of other diseases. - That's right. Furthermore, Mr Rasinger said that it is a sort of criminal success to have identified this pathogen at all. I don't think we need a criminologists to identify pathogens! In the statement about diarrhoea and vomiting, I would like to say: It must be clarified in case of a disease having a different diagnosis, which is the cause of this disease. After that, it is likely that the most dangerous cause will have to be explained at the beginning. It will probably not be usus in human medicine that is purely symptomatically treated. That is why Mr Rasinger's criticism of Mr Grosz is not justified. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also have symptoms associated with a number of diseases in veterinary medicine, for example at the MCS. MKS symptoms are likely to occur for a number of diseases. If I were not to diagnose MKS here immediately, I would be responsible for the cultivation of thousands of cattle. I don't need to tell you what that would mean by law. I therefore take Mr Rasinger's statement as an unsuccessful attempt to apologise for this scandal. [[Abg. Amon: No! He didn't apologize to me!]] I hope it's not Usus that this is how it is done in medicine, because then I'd be concerned with legitimate concerns. In order to amend the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, it would be necessary to say that it is primarily adaptations to the EU Directive and that the amendment of § 43 would not have been necessary to put the emergency plan into operation. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now make a serious effort to solve the problem so that people's health does not continue to be at risk of harmful foods!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14571	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14592	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is about combating harmful foods, and the main responsibility for the fight against harmful foods is the companies in which food is contaminated. That's exactly what happened in Styria at Prolactal's company. This was not the responsibility of the Federal Minister Alois Stöger, not the officials in the Ministry of Health and not the employees of the AGES. This should be kept quite clear in all criticisms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act provides for several absolutely positive rules. A part goes back to the government agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP, another part to the five-party proposal which we have decided unanimously here in this House. From our point of view, the new regulation – as provided for in the Government Convention – is essentially in relation to the quality management system throughout the federal territory. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Food monitoring is not a matter for the Minister of Health, food supervision is the matter of the countries, and the countries are responsible for it. With the new regulations in § 35 we want to create the conditions for a coordinated procedure and also to ensure that there is a corresponding quality management. A report on food safety will be issued for the first time in accordance with this bill. We have many reports – for example, there is a drinking water report – but there is still no report on food safety to date, which measures have actually been taken in the countries by the individual supervisory bodies. The most important part from the point of view of consumer policy is the extended information obligations of the Federal Minister for Health, who has to be informed for the first time to the public under certain conditions. I'd like to hold on: The previous regulations are based on the European Union's basic food regulation, and we are now creating the conditions for the public to be informed of food-related outbreaks of disease by the Federal Minister for Health when further people are at risk. This goes far beyond the criminal law concept of common risk and gives the Federal Minister the opportunity to inform the public independently in the future. I also note at this point that the procedure carried out by the Federal Ministry has complied with the basic food regulation and the Austrian legal situation. The recall action must be carried out by the company in accordance with the basic food regulation, and only if the company does not perform the recall action in the case of dangerous food, the Federal Ministry is on the train. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After this request is also in line with the five-party request, I invite all of you to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14647	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14668	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly agree with my colleague, Mr Maier, that we need good laws that will make our food safe in the future and will therefore also give the consumer the appropriate protection. But I see this template, which you have praised so much, a little different. I see them as a late emergency action to clean up a political person – Mr. Federal Minister – you were and are politically responsible for what has not happened in recent months in connection with the Listeria scandal – in retrospect, and to implement, so to speak, that crisis management and information for the population could be better in the future. We believe – and we have looked very closely at this old law – that the old text of the law could absolutely have corresponded to that. I think that what we now have and what has come out is, on the one hand, a wealth of EU adaptations that we have everywhere, in any law that should have been made anyway. New official titles – the food supervisory bodies are called food inspectors in the future – have come out, as we have already heard, a reporting obligation of the Federal Minister on the safety of foodstuffs, but not up-to-date, but only in the following year, that is, for me, rather a beautiful weather story, and a so-called new emergency plan has come out, which is sold very large, but would have been possible from our point of view, because any risk assessment of the AGES that would have been used in accordance with the zoonose law could have been done at any time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The new obligation to provide information would have already been possible with the law in force, and if you look closely at the text of the law, only a few words have been postponed. There has also been a so-called adjustment of fees and tariffs, but there is no information on how high these charges are, how high these rates are – I also asked the Committee – and it has not been found out what the annual drinking water report costs the countries that cost municipalities and how much the financial effort is. That's the negative that came out, and I'm saying, A lot of noise for nothing! It is positive – and I would also like to say this here – that in the future there will be clearer rules for countries and for national leaders, that one can act faster if there is a reasonable suspicion that quality criteria will be harmonised and that, in particular, the supervisory bodies of food control need better support and support from companies. We have therefore also called for a separate vote, and we will not vote in favour of this bill until third reading. Overall, I would like to say that this bill, which we have here, is an attempt to clean up the political failure of a Federal Minister at a very delicate stage, in a very delicate situation, although you would have had every opportunity, under the existing law, to inform the people in time and comprehensively, and you would have had every opportunity to carry out a so-called emergency plan. You wouldn't have needed this event law to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14725	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14747	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Haubner, when you consider that there are often five parties in favour of legislative amendments, and when you know that today's novelles on a five-party union of 24. February goes back, then you have to say, it has been, unlike some other materials, very quickly responded to it. If you say that the Minister has political responsibility here, that is true. Of course, he has political responsibility, but he is aware of this, and precisely for this reason, this legislative novel is also available today. Mr Grosz has once again shown us very impressively in the Committee that he prefers not only the Minister of Health, but also the whole government, but of course also the companies to criminalise. We have to reject that. I do not think it is possible for companies to control themselves, and the food authorities will then come to check their own control in a rhythm of 480 days, and that in some cases also by untrained personnel. There's a question. Where are the folders of control?, and in the company is pointed to these many folders that serve as a record here. And the food controller says: Yeah, that's right. - We can't take that! There must be coordinated information, there must be coordinated control. Businesses also need to be more controlled, and they must certainly take self-control much more seriously. I believe that we are now actually making improvements with this new law, including in terms of the stronger or the earlier information of the population. And because Mr. Rasinger was addressed a few times today: Mr Rasinger said in committee – and I think you can already join him – that: If the Ministry of Health had been aware of what product it was before it was possible to find out what these people had eaten in the last three weeks and what cheese products were here – because we know and we have learned a lot about where lists can be available in these weeks and months, for example in raw fish, raw meat or raw milk; I too, as a non-expert, have learned a lot about it, I must say – the Ministry of Health would have made a major and broad information campaign and perhaps a panic of the population, then we would have destroyed a company or perhaps several companies that put such products on the market, and that would have done nothing at all. It is better to act preventively and to look for the future that, when such food-related outbreaks occur, it can be quickly informed that, if several federal states are involved, now also the AGES can regulate that from above. However, for me, Minister of Health, a few questions have already been raised. One thing is: We have to try – the Code Commission is currently dealing with it – quite simply to ensure that the consumer and the consumer can no longer be deceived, so that, for example, “farmer quargel” is on it somewhere, but what is on it is far away from what is really inside the product. Secondly, The AGES must be placed on better organizational legs so that, when faced with these problems, they can also cope with their tasks. The latter – and this is still open from our five-party agreement – concerns food quality markings. Finally, we need to find a solution to the way in which we produce food quality labels, because we, Mr Maier and I, have agreed that we are also going through the agreement reached here in Parliament among the five political groups. So I'm trying to make you really more busy here, so that this will happen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14808	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14829	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Tamandel, it's all right anyway; it's not a problem at all. We're going a little to the agenda, we're changing a bit of a law, we're inserting a pass that's what the Minister needs to know a little more than he should have done anyway, but he didn't. We've forgotten it since the 14th century. August 2009 has given 30 sick and eight deaths in Austria. They are loosely pushing aside that the Federal Minister and his health authorities, the AGES, have been since 14. On 1 August 2009, a listria outbreak in Austria was detected in three different cases due to a tribe. They move to the side that the Federal Minister and his AGES and his ministry have been since the 14th century. ==References== October, that is, throughout the summer until late autumn, was unable to recognize this outbreak – although we already had nine sick and three dead – as such and to take the measures! Today, again on the agenda, we note that the Federal Minister will then be on 29 June. On 3 October 2009, the first meeting of three deaths and nine patients was arranged in the framework of a working group. The working group is then the soul healing of the Austrians. And if we look at the internal protocols of the AGES, which have been no longer disputed, even in committee, it has brought together the Federal Minister and his AGES and his ministry, de facto until 13. January – in keeping with the Christmas holidays, Holy Three Kings – does not work. He thus demonstrated impressively and tragically that the health of the population was completely no matter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have demonstrated the sad outcome in the ministerial anchorage that the BZÖ has brought in, manifesting in the motion of distrust and manifesting in the dead and the sick who have Austria to complain about. Mr Minister, I am making three accusations, three concrete accusations, three serious accusations, all of which should lead to a resignation, namely also a retreat culture on political responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stutter.]] To read: The wine scandal has led to withdrawals, but no death victim was to be complained of in this Republic. That's just by the way. Firstly, Mr Federal Minister: You've been tossed. ==References== ==References== February. That's proven. Secondly, Minister of State: You've covered up. They've known since 13. January 2010, which business it is about, and have it as a ministry say and write until the 15. In February 2010, the public was not aware of the danger. On a question from the Austrian Press Agency in front of the Council of Ministers you have still said, I know nothing about it then on 16. February to say: Yes, ever since I knew about it, since yesterday, we have taken all the measures in the department. This is your information policy! On my questions in the Committee – many questions, many minutes of comments – the Federal Minister said a sentence: Everything you say is wrong. Without being able to explain it more closely. This is just as by the way and it is also about the culture as you deal with Parliament. And third, Minister of State: You have said the untruth on several occasions, and we have also been able to introduce this serious accusation to you, in the area of how your ministry has worked, which records have been kept and how communication between AGES and the Minister of Health has been replaced. But the highlight, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Committee on Health said two weeks ago. In the Health Committee, we – and we did not make it public in the media, but we discussed it in the Committee – received the notification that, in addition to the seven dead who were then announced by the Minister, God, unfortunately, an eight-death victim is now to be complained of: a lady who died on 18 May. Januaryen with the diagnosis Listerosis has been supplied to the SMZ East and has fallen into the coma. ==References== January the health office of the city of Vienna confirmed this to the relatives. Because of the quargel, the mother was seriously ill, lying in the coma. You don't know if she'll survive. ==References== February, the hospital hygiene officer also inquired with relatives to investigate how this has happened because it is an adjunct disease. ==References== The AGES also called on the family to learn about the habits of consumption. The condition of the lady's illness has not improved, but has worsened more and more – and because of the listriosis disease and the weakening of the body, this woman unfortunately died on Easter Monday 2010 in the SMZ east. I drew the Minister's attention and said: Mr Minister, you see the unculture of information between your AGES and yourself. I did not claim in the Committee that this woman died of Listerosis but of the consequences of Listerosis, and said that I think it unbearable that communication between the AGES and the Ministry of Health still does not work. Yesterday, Members of the House, we receive a doctor's letter from this lady, with a communication from the AGES and the SMZ East – an absolute madness. So we forget data protection, doctor's secret, that's all completely meaty! [[Abg. Amon: This is a scandal!]] That's a scandal! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stadler and Schönpass.]] That's what it says: Dear Dr. Url! Dear Dr. Early Up! At your request... And the AGES will forward this to Parliament and Parliament to all the Members. There you can place the disease act of this lady, who died and has been buried today, right across Austria! So that's what it says: At your request, I confirm in my capacity as medical director of the SMZO Donauspital that they will be on the 18th. January 2010 with Listerosis in our home, a patient who has responded well to antibiotic therapy. He then continues to do this and then concludes: Thus, it did not die of Listerosis, because the disease picture is likely to have already survived, but ultimately to multi-organ failure. - Quote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's then...! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Incredible!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear doctors, Dr. Rasinger – not there – Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser, there are probably few or no people in this country who have died of HIV, but the people die of the consequences of this, namely, pneumonia, flu, banal sniff, just because of the immune system attacked, but not HIV. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, of course!]] Today to claim that this lady is not one of the listriosis victims, although it has been clearly stated in the doctor's letter, that Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser, Minister of Health, and thus also that the relatives also have the opportunity to keep themselves in the Prolactal company, which has poisoned several people in that country, and that this company, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, is also the head of the robbers by ordering the SMZ-Ost doctor's letters in this Republic – by the way, a lady who has not been observed to this day, although it is an admissible disease, Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser, Minister of Health Stöger – that should lead to your immediate resignation, and today still! [[Abg. May. Stadler: And then sent to Parliament!]] Get out of this house! Put your offices back! Because what you're doing here is humane politics in pure culture, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the BZÖ: Scandal!]] Moreover, this change of law, which the Minister is presenting today, will not do any good. For the Minister has already broken the law, as we have done on the basis of this incident, on the basis of this chronology since 14. ==References== That means we can't make a better law if we have a latent lawbreaker on the government bank who doesn't comply with this food law. I would have expected this Parliament, if it had already made a legislative change, to be no longer possible in Austria, at last, for Dutch shipping milk, Dutch low-priced milk to be converted into pots only for the purposes of profit in Lower Bavaria, from which in Hartberg in an international company at once becomes a farm-based product of Styrian provenance, where no single component – perhaps the water – comes from Hartberg. Not even the cumble that is in this Hartberger “farmer quargel” comes from Styria! I would have expected that we would finally tighten up the food laws in Austria – but not a change in the law that would alter the name of the Minister's information policy a little, although we know that it was not only information policy, it was even a latent violation of law that the Minister had been doing since 14. August to this day has to be held responsible. Mr Minister, we are discussing today's ministerial package: Show propensity, step back, and actually take on the consequences!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e14978	For the accusation in the direction of the Federal Minister Stöger that he was a latent legal breaker on the government bank, I declare to honourable Member Grosz a call for order. [[Abg. Grosz: Very much!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But only because of the government bank!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] As a result, Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein spoke. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15035	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The change of law, which is here – which is a change in the law of the event – will be accepted, even though I would like to say that it would in fact have changed nothing in this case at all. Mr. Federal Minister – and this has also been repeated by Mr Maier today, when he said that the company is legally obliged – you are the top official, of course you would already have on 20 November. January can and must inform the public. Still where you knew that this company has not always been a show business in the past. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not about panic, because it was already on the 20th. Janen secures the food that is the cause of this disease. At the moment, there is no panic, but that is pure information policy. They have tried to make clear to us in the committee what has not happened, where this company has not informed the public everywhere. But that was all very, very much later. Mr. Federal Minister, if it were so that you wouldn't do it, then you would also have on 16 June. Not able to say after the Council of Ministers on February: I informed the public as soon as I knew! – For if it is not at all Your job is if you didn't have to do it at the time. So this is a contradiction in itself. They have failed to inform the population in good time already in January, and we know today that after this 20th anniversary, Januaryen still infected people – and there is nothing to point out and say that they bought the quargel before the recovery action. Well, after all, they could've bought him hard. But that's exactly the accusation: If people had been properly informed, they might have looked more closely in the fridge and then they might not have eaten this quargel they bought in the past – and that's the problem. That is exactly where you made a very, very big mistake with your information policy, and you can't talk about it, you can't get rid of it, even if the government partner now makes you the wall. This has been your fault, and you will have to carry this mistake – no matter how long you have been in this office; this error will continue to be yours in the future. We will vote in favour of this bill, although I would also like to point out that this law is very bleak – I say now. We know that there will be an information requirement in this law if there is a health risk. If there is no health risk, the company that has placed a foodstuff with poor labelling on the market does not have to be publicly mentioned. I think this is a big mistake. We had such a case a few years ago, as there was this genetically modified rice. As a result, the company that brought the genetically modified rice to the market in Austria was not mentioned as having lost the entire industry. I think this is a bad way we've got here. I do not think it makes sense to protect a company that does not comply with proper labelling requirements here. Enterprise protection must not be protected from the protection of the population, and ultimately the whole industry will be affected. We would have liked it to come in, maybe at a later date. The BZÖ's ministerial contribution, we will not give our consent to this request. ==References== ==References====External links== I think that's enough. The courts are now speaking, the courts now have the guilt or innocence; and I think we should first let the courts work, and then we can see what has come out. Should the court come to the realization that the Federal Minister Stöger has somehow made himself guilty not only politically but also legally relevantly, then it is clear that the Minister will have to resign. It is not our job, however, to clarify this. [[Abg. List: Of course!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is a political question!]] Mr Grosz, I think that if we start filed a complaint in April, we would also be a little late. The reaction that you did this immediately, at the time when it was announced, was certainly the smarter.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15107	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15129	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors in the house! This is an important question, food safety concerns all of us: We go shopping every day, we eat products that we can't always trace ourselves, and there is food control and food quality assurance. Let's stick to the facts. What are the facts at the end of this process, this situation? There are still the criminal surveys in the Styria, on which we are of course very curious, but the fact is: There were tragic deaths, which should not be kept silent at all. This is really a very dangerous germ, and it is simply a problem that there are contaminations that can have very serious effects on health, until death. What's the second fact? It is a serious label gap – and this is more about political responsibility – when a company can write “Hartberg” and “Farm Quargel” on a product, and both are lying. It has to do with Hartberg zero, except that the company is there, and it has nothing to do with farmers, because it is shipping milk processed from the import. So it is primarily the responsibility to see there, and there we would also be at the point where we say that we have implemented much of what was agreed in the joint five-party proposal in February with the law. Some things are still waiting for implementation, in particular the designation of origin. We know that this is a European issue, but also an Austrian one, and we hope to continue in the next few months. What's more fact? Fact is the ignorance of a management with regard to the legal provisions, that is obvious. This management of Prolactal has deliberately placed contaminated products on the market – I would suspect, because it would have to know better. Yeah, that's incredible. I am very curious about the criminal relevance, and if they are not given, then we also need to change the law because it cannot be that people who have no idea of the legal basis work in so truly far-reaching companies. Furthermore, massive hygiene failures and unfortunately, and one must say that one also has to say control deficits in the Styria facts. This is certainly also to be discussed in the Styria. That's where we'll see: Interface food control, a question of the countries, the central government. And I am quite right to Mr Maier that the uniform quality management and the pooling of information at the AGES – and this task has the AGES – is a very important and correct step; and then the responsibility is clear. In the future, there will be no more excuses, who has not or has already given what. It is then the AGES that must carry out and implement the information pooling. Yeah, and what's clear? The company has even received agricultural export subsidies, €800 000 in 2006/2007 – as you have to see if something has also disappeared there. According to how this company works, one must honestly suspect that several things are wrong, what has happened there. But now to the law, to the present Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act: We will agree to him this time. There are several good points and partial implementations of the joint five-party application. Some have already been mentioned, for example, the health minister's obligation to provide information in the event of suspicion of common risk from food based on contamination. This is a very important concern, because then you can intervene much earlier. The review in the present case would have taken place much earlier, perhaps already in January. Then you might already have received the message from the AGES in mid-January: Attention, there's something big on the march. Is this a relevant problem that we should already report to the public? – Then you would have been more or less committed to action on the basis of the new law in your political responsibility. The annual food report is an important step in the right direction. We have argued for years together on this issue. Mr Maier is right, it is also positive because it is an implementation of the Government Convention. We are glad of the opposition when it is worked when it goes in the direction that we think greens are necessary and correct for the future. One aspect that has not yet been addressed: that the border veterinarians receive new tasks, they are now increasingly used for import control in animal products and in foodstuffs in general. This has become necessary because veterinarians are simply no longer needed to the extent that other agreements apply in Switzerland and in other areas. The reports of the laboratories are very important. You have to imagine: Prolactal commissions a laboratory to investigate quality assurance, which is self-control. If this laboratory finds a positive find, a listria case, it is required, in accordance with the new law, to pass it on to the AGES within two days. Then it is no longer possible to put such a thing under the carpet or, as is suspected, to pass on these contaminated products to social institutions. This too will have to be clarified by Prolactal. Summa summarum is the law a good step in the right direction, it contains some very essential points that we can really carry. I hope that this is how it continues, Minister of State, we still have a lot to do in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15195	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15216	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that my previous speakers – I say now: almost all – have raised the question of Listerian infections very objectively and very seriously, on the one hand, and also the question of the revision of this law – the many positive things that have been achieved with this agreement. To Mr Grosz – I am sorry, I have to tell you again –: Untruths won't come true when you bring them more often. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And yell!]] I admire your rhetorical tricks, tricks, or whatever you want to call them, here with half-truths and untruths and juggling around. That's really admirable. Only, as has been said, this discussion, scandalizing that a doctor's letter has been sent to everyone in violation of secrecy, is it not true. [[Abg. Grosz keeps a document up to date.]] Yeah, you can keep this up. I looked at him again. This is a letter to the AGES, where there is no patient data inside, not a patient's name inside, but where there is an opinion from inside, which, at the request of the medical director of a home, is to an authority with... Yes, yes! [[Interlocutory calls by Ursula Haubner and Grosz]] [[Abg. Grosz: They are sent to Parliament?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: To the President!]] With the transfer to the.... [[New calls from the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: But that can't be all right! Don't be angry with me!]] In order to clarify the untruths and attitudes made by Mr Grosz in the committee, because this was not clear in the situation: Provoking, challenging and then somehow saying that you can't really look away... – that's not true. The second thing – which is also a half-truth, Mr deputies – is that you take every legal opportunity to sue for damages if a member of your family does not die of lists, neither is it true. In the context of the product liability, it is true that in the event of a proven illness or damage from a product, the claims are equally preserved. That means, once again: I am in favour of talking about what can be learned from this case – and I believe that we have discussed this very objectively in all, quite a number of meetings here in part, in part, very polemically, and I think the lessons have been drawn, that is to say, the agreement we have in the law after that. [[Abg. Grosz: No, not everyone yet! The Minister hasn't gone yet!]] That's how you should do it. The fact that the case is not more fun and that it is really more dramatic and tragic for those concerned is not a question. Just, once again: I don't think that it's all right to try to get a minister to be a liar, to put him as a potential right-winger – and to try to clarify the whole thing under the cover – that's all I want to do. It is precisely the same with Mr Spadiut, who First speaker and colleague Rasinger were concerned about whether the human physician should not really look at the most dangerous. [[==References====External links== Ursula Haubner.]] Now I've been golfing again: It is an incidence of 0.25 to 100 000 that lists occur. That is, if I have someone with diarrhoea and vomiting now, I am not a bad doctor, nor am I infringing anything if I don't think of lystries. In human medicine too, what is common, is common, and you look at it and treat first, and if no improvement is made, you need to keep looking. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think we learned a lot from it. I hope that such a case will never occur again, and I would really like to have a real discussion – as is the case with all other political groups on this issue – and not the polemization that comes from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15333	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15354	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I think it came out quite clearly in the discussion today: If someone has diarrhoea and vomiting, then it is probably not the first reflex that one immediately clears all Austrian supermarkets and seized everything on Listeria suspicions, as Mr Grosz would have liked. [[Abg. Grosz: Even if three people die of diarrhea!]] It's sad, sad, but... [[Abg. Grosz: This is bordered by curfew! That's rhetorical curfewry!]] Let me say once again, Mr Grosz, I am not going to give you any medical instruction – you are not a doctor, I am a doctor – but: In case of diarrhoea and vomiting, this is a symptom that can be caused by hundreds of germs, you can't say from home that they are lystries. Mostly the suspicion arises when someone ends up at the intensive care station; one searches and searches – mostly in the case of cerebral inflammation – and then one finds in a laborious procedure that they are lysical. So much for those who are not physicians, so that it is clear that “listeries” are not cried out suddenly in each diarrhoea. In contrast to Germany, Austria has managed to find out the causer – and you always let that fall under the table. That's the difficulty of finding out which company is responsible. Suppose the hospital administration says we have a listria case, then the contaminants can be thousands of products. How would you like to say in Austria then the company Billa or the company Spar: Please clear all dairy products now? – The consequence would be such a liability action if the suspicion that would have washed did not come true. Therefore, one should remain on the ground of reality. We don't need a light-seer as a minister or a panic maker as a minister, as much as it is – probably – in your interest to hit vortex. I have to regret – I have been in Parliament for quite a long time – what you have listed on the ministerial basis – I say consciously: listed – in the choice of words – lies, conceals and so on. I always thought we were the Ho-he house, I thought there was some basic consensus about a minimal fairness. That you put the fairness latte below the ankle height, that's why you have to live yourself. They were once part of a ministry and know how difficult that is. Nevertheless, we don't want to cover up, we want to improve. In my opinion, the company's information, in the specific case, was worth checking. That is why we are making a legislative amendment which we hope the House will approve by a large majority. I also consider it problematic – as Mr Pirklhuber said – that a company can call a quargel produced with foreign milk “Austrian quargel”. This is not exactly helpful for informing the consumer. To sum up, however, it must be said: So sad that's all that, you should learn from it. Also in medicine: Panic can make you sick, Mr Grosz. I would advise you to take this into account, because there is also a day after the Styrian country election.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15410	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15432	Mr President. Minister! High house! I understand, Mr Rasinger, that it is obvious that we have daily dealings with foods that are faced with bacteria in various concentrations with various ill-healthing potential. As a logical consequence, each time a whole industry is shut down and the population is put into fear and terror, it is not feasible and stupid. I think there is consensus here in the house. However, it must be so, and you must become a responsible person if, in this context, there is a concentration of cases of disease. This is what we are throwing before the acting actors – the Ministry and also the AGES – that this has not happened as it should have been and how we would probably have done it. The novel of the new law should ensure that there is a clear improvement here. It's come, it's coming, it's going to get better, but not in the way we imagined it. In the specific case, a maximum of a two-day gain in the event of a justified suspicion comes up, and that is far too little. I would have imagined, and we have also articulated this in the Committee, that instead of the current enhanced self-control, the authority will have an increased frequency of control. Unfortunately, this is not the case if you read through these new laws. In the present case, one will not get the impression that the coordination of the authorities and, above all, the acting actors is really in annoyance, and one will not get the slight feeling that this is really incompetent. This is partly the fault of the parties involved, because the letter of the SMZ East, which Mr Grosz read to us yesterday, which was shaved and sent to us all, is not a business card, and this should not be done in this way. This has a negative side-effect, this negative side-effect of Intervening, the under-the-table-turn, the bad conscience. The whole industry is not presented in any better light by such actions. In connection with this Listeria scandal, the problem arises that some companies in Austria obviously interpret this law as they consider it to be correct. In the specific case – as we have also described and seen – it is true that the company obviously left the lists in its product quite consciously. The company knew that its product was contaminated with Listeria, it called for an ominous limit value. I tried to find out this limit value. I couldn't find him. That is to say, in German, they deliberately traded a product with a contaminated ingredient with the argument that this is below the ominous limit value. There are, of course, already the questions: Where was the authority? Where were the inspectors? Did they somehow document that? Did they tell anyone? – If that were so, it would actually be a scandal that goes far beyond what we are discussing today. One last sentence: The consumer, when entering a business in Austria, must be sure that he receives the best possible quality due to the best possible control by the authorities. We hope that this law is a small step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15495	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15516	Mr President. High house! Dear listeners! Dear listeners! I think that this new law, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, serves to strengthen the Austrian way of producing good food, controlling it and providing the population with food at the highest level. We need to learn with every measure how we can improve the overall situation so that the information requirement can be improved so that food security in Austria can be improved. I say: Food quality cannot be tested, but the quality of food must be produced in a company. Each entrepreneur has the obligation to constantly control the food it markets and to offer only the best quality. In this sense, we have also created a new system, so that – Mr Pirklhuber has also mentioned it – the laboratories that carry out this review have to report to the authorities that, if such lists occur, this will be known. This will strengthen the security and information provided by the authorities. It is also important to be able to respond as an authority if there is a reasonable suspicion. So far, it has been possible for an authority to react only if it has been clearly established in accordance with the rules of proof that there is an unhealthy food, a harmful food; then we have been allowed to act. We're putting this into practice now. I also say that it is very central and important that we can actually bring these good food to the man to whom women are. How can we warn? – It is now included in the novelle a regulation as to how a warning should take place. I would also like to point out in the House that no later than 23. Januaryen on Austrian radio, about many rails in Austria has been warned, partly by the company, partly by the radio. I'm just saying that very clearly. One thing is particularly important to me, namely to point out that the Federal Ministry of Health communicates with Parliament about your President. There was something in the committee that could not be left to stand. I asked the President to send this information to the members of the Committee, in the sense of clear transparency. It has been addressed – and I am seeking support from Parliament – that food content should be known that quality is also excellent. We are currently dealing with the issue of “Market Law” in the government deliberations, by which special qualities are to be awarded; and I am seeking to also contribute to the fact that we have a quality mark law in the future, which also includes food quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15568	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15589	Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! I agree with all the previous speakers who have thought that this law is now an even better control so that such cases as we have to complain can be avoided in the future. Whether they can be completely avoided, we will never know. At least, I believe, this law has given us the opportunity to offer even more safety for our food. I do not, of course, join in with this theatre that Mr Grosz has again performed today. He has already done this in the general sample, in the committee, and we, who are in the committee, have already heard this for the second time. I join all those who believe that Mr Grosz with half-truths is trying to insure the population and put himself in the scene where it is completely inappropriate. I also share the view of Mr Rasinger, Mr Grosz, that it is really unsavory to collect, so to speak, political little money with these tragic cases, which you will not get. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I believe that it is important now that we let the people know that they have safety when they buy products, and that this does not result in cases of disease. I am not the Federal Minister's defender of duty, and one can certainly discuss many of the projects or non-projects he does, but we from the Austrian People's Party will certainly not give our consent to this staging that you have made here and in which you have called for the appointment of the Federal Minister. We will support him where it is necessary that we have more security and that we make better laws for the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15640	The next speaker was Mr Keck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15662	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's proposal to amend the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act will be the five-party resolution of 24. In February 2010, it took into account a new regulation of the regulatory response and public information in the case of food-related outbreaks. In future, it will also be possible to take measures to inform the public if there is a reasonable suspicion of a food-related outbreak and a link to specific food can be established. Information shall be provided provided that persons are ill and other risks are not excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Austrian Agency for Health and Food Safety is already responsible for the technical evaluation of plant protection products, it is also intended to give its responsibility in the field of fixing maximum residue levels in foodstuffs. The Government template also provides that import controls on vegetable foods will be carried out in the future by federal bodies, for example border veterinarians, in the sense of improving efficiency. The fees for official controls are not included. The proposal also makes adjustments to Community law and adaptations to avoid difficulties in interpretation. While some are trying to beat political change from human tragedies, Health Minister Stöger has assumed responsibility and presented the novels of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act here. The current Listeria scandal shows how necessary it is to have clear rules when it comes to outbreaks of diseases based on food. On the one hand, there are, of course, strict procedures, such as time limits for controls or clear responsibilities, on the other hand, but on the other hand there is also the right, reasonable and, above all, understandable information for the public. In contrast to Mr Grosz's specific case, this disaster is about serious warnings and information, it is not about panic and incessant accusations. Mr Stöger, Minister of Health, has not only complied with Parliament's wishes with the new law here, but has responded to a burning problem with his place of business in Windseaile. He takes his office very seriously and has proved that he is a minister who reacts quickly and correctly to the good of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15708	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. I would draw attention to the fact that I put the clock in two minutes, because then we come to the call of the urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15729	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Food safety and consumer protection law – I think the title is already a positive beginning. If one now looks at the content, it is quite successful points that are dealt with here, derived from the basis of the five-party application: of course the obligations to adapt to Community law; important and interesting also the setting of MRLs in foodstuffs, in connection with plant protection products, and that the AGES is included for their determination; important and interesting also for the import control of plant food and the removal of the fees for official control. Unfortunately not included – but hope is certainly also a political principle – is the free demand for measurement, disclosure and consistent publication of drinking water values. But of course one can argue whether this is the case in this law. We believe it would have been necessary and important. The real and most important point is the new definition of the procedure for information in cases such as the listria case. One can now discuss whether this is an event legislation, as was once accused by the BZÖ. A counter-argument would be: If we had not taken this case as an occasion for the law, I think the criticism would have been all the more severe, so let me say that in this case. It is important that appropriate precautions are taken. I am already aware that the whole case for the competent minister always means a graze migration – if you are too early with the publications, of course the complaints stand in the room, if you are too late, there is legitimate political criticism in the room. Mr Federal Minister, I do believe that in this case the suspicion will not be completely resolved that: You acted a little late. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] - All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15790	Mr Deimek, do you want to continue your remarks after the urgent debate and after the short debate? - Yeah, let's go like that. I am now interrupting the debate on points 3 and 4 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:40]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance concerning black tax clouds via Austria – Pröllnocchio 2.0 (5077/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e15823	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 5077/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16148	I give Mr Klubobmann Bucher as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the meeting of a urgent question with Mr Finanzminister Josef Pröll. Welcome, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I hope you are well and the leg will not prevent you from answering our questions. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll nodded.]] [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday, it is well known that the Council of Ministers has agreed on a Financial Framework Act, which gives rise to concern about black tax clouds that will cross Austria over the next few months. [[Call at the SPÖ: Volcano clouds!]] Mr Bundesminister and Vice-President Josef Pröll, I am now saving you from quoting the variety of statements that you have given in recent months, which have been printed in the most diverse media, which you have not done to deceive and camouflage, so that no one will know what tax plans you are dealing with, what you are thinking of, what you are doing in order to reduce the middle class to the Austrian people in order to pay the taxpayers. I just remember a variety of announcements, for example: The budget for the next year will not be adopted until 2011. – It would have been best for you to decide a budget at all at the end of 2011. – Then the constant denial of tax increases and plans aimed at this direction. Then a competition for new taxes and tax increases, how to read them daily in the media. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor Josef Pröll! The quote will probably tell you something, and it will be known to you: “Whoever lies, you don’t believe it!” Mr Pröll, this very quote applies to you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not only am I saying this, but it is also told to you by the head of IHS, Felderer, who cannot be unknown to you, because he is someone you also finance because he also provides you with the basic economic data for your budget increases. After all, he lets you judge the following, he says: “The credibility, however, suffers when you constantly talk about taxes and are unable to reduce expenditure”. - That's what IHS Chief Felderer tells you. That means you're lying. You're lying when you're talking about tax plans. You're not telling us the truth what you're actually planning. Therefore also our urgent request today to finally bring light into the dark and finally to explore the truth, which will actually come to us in the near future. I take it a little more seriously with responsibility than you, Federal Minister. What kind of responsibility do I have to ask you personally if you, as Vice-President of this Republic, are constantly thinking about new and higher taxes as Vice-Cancellor of the Government? Do you not know what responsibility you have in the interests of taxpayers, in the interests of the economy? There is a wing within the ÖVP, the Economic Federation, which always pretends to represent the economy. Do you know what the economy wants? – The economy wants planning, the economy wants predictability. The economy wants to know what will be waiting for it in the next few months and what will happen to it when it comes to setting up businesses in Austria or creating jobs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister, you do exactly the opposite by constantly talking about new taxes and participating in this competition for new and increased taxes in Austria. You should know best if you are now implementing these tax plans that we have long reached the ceiling in Austria with a tax and tax rate of 43 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we should use Switzerland as an example, not only because it has been so popular in the last few days to move Switzerland to the centre once more, but because we and especially we from the BZÖ have repeatedly bonded to Switzerland again and again as a comparison. Federal Minister Pröll! Yes, but take Switzerland as an example and not Greece! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Switzerland is the model for our future budget and tax policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Switzerland accounts for 27 percent of the tax and tax rate. Switzerland has a tax rate of 27 percent and a debt ratio of 40 percent. These are examples where we should orient and measure ourselves, and not Greece. We should not weigh ourselves in security that we have gotten out of it again due to this financial market and economic crisis. Consider, too, because we are currently in comparison, an example in the Federal Republic of Germany. There is a completely opposite discussion. There is also a competitor there, but a competitor for where one can reduce taxes, which taxes one should reduce and what makes sense to upgrade the economic and competition location of Germany. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Yes, what's your business worth? What are you, ladies and gentlemen, worth the jobs if you in Austria make a completely negative, counter-productive policy, which causes the companies to desist, detest and frighten, and ensure that fewer and fewer jobs are created in Austria? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All of this only against the background, because in autumn two important country elections are imminent, because You don't want to give people pure wine because you're camouflage and deceive and because you don't say what you're actually planning. Otherwise, this policy would not be explained, would not explain why you are pushing the budget out and why you, SPÖ and ÖVP, are creating a competition over the media, which taxes are now to be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why today this urgent question, which I hope will give us an explanation of what this Federal Government is doing. In fact, it is unbearable for us to be guided by the media for weeks, which tax plans are actually being thought of by the Federal Government here in Austria. Therefore: Leave the cat out of the bag! Today you have the opportunity to do so. Give us the answers to the urgent and important questions so that the economy in Austria will also be more planned! Tell us what you're actually planning! Do you want mass taxes? Do you want an increase in VAT? Mr Finanzminister! Do you really want to go from 20 percent to 22 percent? Tell us today, just as you are told by the SPÖ! That's what some in your ranks say, it's not from me. [[towards SPÖ looking]] That's what you're doing to each other through the media. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Something new every day!]] There you have to ask yourself openly whether this is a responsible government policy or a pure fight rhetoric in the run-up to important country elections. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second, tell us if you want to introduce capital taxes. Give us the answers to whether you intend to introduce the inheritance and gift tax again, whether you want the foundations to be more interested or in the future you want to scrap the shareholders of the shares! Give us an answer and finally make sure you want to bring in these 3 billion € additional tax revenue in the coming years up to 2014! This is reflected in the proposals you decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers. For everyone who has not yet read this in the ranks of the ÖVP: It stands in there, an average of €3 billion per year until 2014. Everyone will be able to calculate the average. We'd be interested in how you do this. It is also clear – and this can be traced back – that the basic principle of the ÖVP is always: Before the elections, taxes will be reduced, and after the elections, taxes will be increased. Again and again the same principle! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Before the elections you are always generous, and afterwards there is the tax culprit. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will probably find out today “Pröllnocchio 2.0”. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] “Pröllnocchio 2.0” is listed today by Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who once again shows us that he does not take it seriously with his information policy and that he leaves us unsure that he leaves the population in doubt above all and allows us to compete here towards new and higher taxes. Otherwise it can be explained that you first meant that there are no new taxes at all, no tax plans you are working on. A week later you said that we are making 50: 50, 1.7 billion over savings, 1.7 billion over new taxes. Then suddenly came a new distribution factor when you remember: 40 : 60, 40 percent taxes, 60 percent savings. If you look at this financial framework law now, when you look at what came out, you see that the new distribution factor 80 : 20 is, 80 percent over new taxes and increased taxes and 20 percent over savings. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers. Let me tell you that to your honourable Member. There is nothing to be heard about, because they remain in doubt, because they basically do not know what plans are actually being forged in the Council of Ministers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] This is a irrational government policy, Mr Vice-Chancellor! That's not fair, that's not honest, and that's also the completely wrong way! First of all, I would have thought that you would in all cases take seriously the reform plans that have been presented to you by the Court of Auditors for years and days, that you are not first using the tax screw, but that you are going through reforms, that you think about where you need to start in this Republic, so that we finally install a modern, powerful, powerful and slender state, which has set up fat in recent years, which we can no longer finance in the future, and where, for the next generations, the financial room for play is getting tighter and tighter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore essential and necessary that we renegotiate the financial balance with the countries and with the municipalities. They are the important partners for a state and administrative reform in Austria. Nothing goes without the countries, nothing goes without the communities, if one sees that they withdraw to the point of view: Yes, the federal government is supposed to abolish taxes, the federal government is supposed to put on the tax screws more firmly, and we are transferred monthly so that we can cover our expenses and carry out our tasks. This is irresponsible to the next generations, especially when one attaches to examples, such as in health policy in Lower Austria, where one wants to open a hospital in Mödling, a hospital in Baden, just a few kilometres from Vienna, ladies and gentlemen. This cannot be a serious one, but it cannot be a reasonable health policy measure that we approve of such investments, where it is a matter of turning every euro around and ensuring that the next generations also have scope and a Republic where they can finance their core tasks. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is only about a comprehensive structural reform with the countries, the municipalities and with all the partners responsible. It is unreasonable for you to prescribe to the ministers that you must save one or two percent, where you know that the individual ministries are communication vessels, where they are concerned, and that there is a comprehensive reform of the entire federal government, cross-sectoral measures that must finally be taken, for example in the area of administration. This system, which we have implemented in Austria, is far too expensive and far too inefficient, and we will not be able to afford it in the future. We have a large number of political bodies that are completely unnecessary, which we could reduce. This is not a measure, Mr Finanzminister, or a proposal that comes from us. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: BZÖ!]] No, not just us. This is what a head of state also says the SPÖ, who openly says that he wants to narrow down his national government, that he wants to reduce the land days. These are proposals that come from SPÖ and ÖVP, which are always populist and where you ask yourself afterwards, where the seriousness remains in the consideration. Where, then, do Members follow their country captain in this gift? As a result, everyone retreated and shrunk in the last few rows and did not stand up to the requirements and proposals made by the head of state in the country in question. This is irresponsible, and that is not an honest policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we also expect that, when such exposed politicians make proposals, such as reductions in political bodies, even here, the mandates who owe it to these top candidates stand up for these proposals, or at least once give a speech on how they intend to comply with this proposal. But don't give up and don't go mute in the rear rows, but come to speak and stand up for what is in the country in question, ladies and gentlemen! We demand that we at least think about how we have done this several times in the Austrian conference, Minister of Finance, in these social coffeehouses, where we meet, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, that you think seriously about these over 200 measures, proposals and recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the reduction of political bodies, the reduction of structures and the administration in Austria. At last take this seriously and accept the willingness to negotiate with the opposition about it and to talk about how we, together, remove these large chunks, so that we can move towards a powerful, forward-looking state. This is a recommendation from the Court of Auditors, a willingness of the opposition parties you are making. That's irresponsible, that won't bring you on! They should address this and ensure that these important recommendations will also be implemented in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We therefore need an intelligent budget recovery. It cannot be your serious that you require any minister to save one, two percent in his area without knowing what is feasible, possible and thoughtful in the cross-border departments. We say yes to future investment, quite clearly. It cannot be your serious that you are now going back to public investment, for example in the area of infrastructure, thermal renovation. You can't be serious! This is death for many medium-sized companies in our country, who live on the fact that the public hand takes over billions a year to promote the structurally weak medium-sized economy in our country as well as to maintain important jobs in the country. It can't be. You are serious that you take away the money from the communities that fight for survival in rural areas and also have the responsibility to survive there in the near future, because otherwise it will lead to a thinning of rural areas. It cannot be your seriousness and goal that you also save in the field of education, family and youth. This is the future of our country, and the next generations are building on it, that you are not cutting the funds here, but that you are setting clear, targeted investments in the future that the country needs at an economically difficult time, so that we can no longer fall back, but can look to the future with optimism, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, tell us – that would also be a request – what is with the 70 working groups you have installed from the Federal Government! You can read that in your government program. I do not know to what extent the SPÖ and ÖVP MEPs have ever been involved in this government programme, or have constantly looked at it. But if they do, they will see that the members of the government have used 70 working groups. Finally, tell us which of these 70 working groups is actually installed, who is in there, what results and what consequences there are from these think factories and whether, in the near future, really measurable results can be expected! We hear nothing of all, we only hear when a problem occurs that a working group is installed, but in addition no reports on any efficiency. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle must actually be – and this is likely to occur at the end of Mr Pröll's reply: preventing new taxes, hindering this government in order to increase its purchasing power and not reduce it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16369	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Bucher, I would like to remind you of the agreements we have reached at previous presidential meetings. Agreements in presidential meetings apply, even if individual members were not present at the time. Conventions have already been made there on several occasions that names of politicians and politicians, but also of people in public life, are not evaded. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The blacks make this restless!]] We have already discussed this a number of times and have reached agreements. I am now saving you the examples from earlier times. That's still true! I would like to ask you and urge you to comply with these agreements, otherwise I will put this back on the agenda at the next presidency! Secondly, We have also agreed – and there is also a note in the commentary version of the Rules of Procedure – that the submission or word “lying” does not occur here in this room. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is proven! That's a fact!]] I do not now call for an order, because there is an appeal here from my side to comply with this determination and definition even in this commentary version of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, this would also be a topic for the forthcoming presidential meeting. I am now looking for Mr. Federal Minister and Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Proud of answering the question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16429	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the crowd lines! On the comments and pre-declarations of the BZÖ – also expressed by Josef Bucher – as regards the illiteracy of names: You know, if you don't think anything else, then you're taking such stylistics! This proved to be impressive once again in the speech. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[The representatives of the BZÖ keep posters up to date on which the title “Pröllnocchio 2.0” as well as a photo by Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, with marked attributes of the Roman figure “Pinocchio” – hat, stitch and a renewed nose – can be seen.]] It's my job today, after the signs are shown the second time, to just give answers. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16465	Mr. Vice-Chancellor, just a moment, please. – We can also continue to do so and will not be taken seriously in the public. I really urge you to take seriously my appeal, which I sent here to you two minutes ago! Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16497	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer very, very objectively and clearly the questions I have been asked. Let me, however, perhaps say very serious words at the beginning of the show elements here in Parliament. I think the situation is serious enough to deal with issues that are there, how we keep Austria in balance, how we manage to lead the country into the future together. Over the next few months, it will be clear whether we, the government and the opposition together – it will also need two-thirds – will be able, after we have handled the crisis very well and together, to bring forward the right prospects for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Buchner, before I come up with the questions, a few more issues which you have raised. [[Call BZÖ:Booker!]] - Booker, sorry! [[Abg. Grosz: Again a evaporation of the name!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's exactly the same!]] Mr Bucher, there is no cause for unrest. I believe that you have passed without any trace that we in Austria, the European Union and also internationally in 2009 have had to deal with the biggest and most severe economic crisis since the 1930s. What we have to clean up today has not been created in this country, we have not caused, but we have done so in this House with many, also joint decisions, to ensure that the following has been implemented: a stabilisation measure for Austria's banking landscape, which has been effective in the economy far beyond the banks. [[Abg. Bucher: Did I claim that?]] Without the stabilisation, we could have experienced not only a collapse but a collapse of the economy in Austria. Second point: We have taken forward-looking steps on the issue of tax reform together and on individual topics. In 2009, in Austria, we reduced people, businesses and families by €3 billion, a discharge over which Germany is still fighting. So much for comparison with our neighbouring country, where nothing has yet to be done about discharge. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to clear up the things that are necessary because of the crisis in order to provide very forward-looking answers. Mr Bucher, you take the words “economic competence” and “economics” into your mouth so often! [[Abg. Bucher: You were never in business, not a second!]] Andreas Schieder and I did not have too long ago to clean up the largest BZÖ-Misswirtschaft in this country in Carinthia. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] [[Abg. Booker: This is unheard of! I was a 20-year-old entrepreneur! ... Supply posts!]] That's the theme! We've had years of shivering what caused you to be a Carinthian in Carinthia. That's the truth. Don't take your mouth to full! I'll tell you that. You've proven that you can't operate, as you sit here, in your political responsibility in Carinthia. And we'll do the opposite together. – So much for reality. So much for the future. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Weight shift, otherwise the second Achillessehne also rips!]] I understand you're getting nervous, given the data that's happening in Carinthia. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, get out with the emotion, into the facts and data! Now to your questions. Questions 1 to 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 21 are as follows: Thanks to the new budgetary law, adopted unanimously by all the political groups in Parliament – also an important point: unanimously decided! – we have at our disposal a unique and significant instrument of budget planning in Europe. The Federal Financial Framework sets out its spending limits – decided by Parliament – to the Boards by the year 2014. This will also make it transparent in relation to the requirements of the European Commission on a legal basis, in which steps and until when we will reorganise our budget together. The federal financial framework will be discussed in detail here in Parliament in the coming weeks, I think. Rehabilitation of the budget after crisis expenditure is a mammoth task, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side, as we had not yet done in this country. In order to reorganise our debts, we, the Federal Chancellor and I, have jointly made sure in the Federal Government that 60 percent are about the reduction of expenditure, about savings and only 40 percent about the increase in revenue. In short: Every euro we have to take on taxes is up to €1.5, which we have to save. This principle applies. And along the way, we will have to hold the discussions here in plenary and in the course of the course also with the Ministries. But above all, we want to work out restructuring with particular emphasis on the economic situation, especially in the interest of the next few years. Let's not forget. The crisis has been settled well together, but it is not over yet. After the financial crisis, it has affected the real economy and now in the third wave of whole economies. She's not over yet. We have to counter it now. Austria has a huge advantage – I also want to say this here: Due to the good economic data achieved by the previous governments in recent years, especially from 2000 onwards, we have also set the Austrian lead in the crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was in the government? Just the ÖVP! ÖVP government alone!]] We have the second best situation in Europe on the labour market. We compared with other countries one of the lowest deficits after the crisis in 2010. That's why I'm saying: If we act early and now, we will also be able to deal more closely with the rehabilitation work for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From my point of view, the budget renewal is under three premises. This is what we want to do, and this also shows the documentation of the Federal Financial Framework Act on saving. First point: First save and increase efficiency. Second point: Secure growth and generate and develop new growth. And only then, ladies and gentlemen, even if you like to do this passionately, will you discuss taxes and revenue. [[Abg. Bookbooker: You do this every day!]] If you save more, you need less taxes. This is our principle which we will pursue in the next few months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you also come to the questions?]] Questions 5 and 6: An arbitrary stability levy for banks is based on the following parameters: The previous discussion on a bank tax aims at a flat-rate and exclusively at the balance sheet amount as a basis for assessment. The balance sheet sum may bring a corresponding quantitative width, but from my point of view it is not the most useful variant. Finally, the classical banking business, namely loans and deposits, is penalised or taxed. From my point of view, therefore, there is still a need for discussion to consider any stability levy that we agreed to take into account risk positions in the bank as a basis for assessment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The tax rate will depend on the steering effects. In this direction, we should take the debate together. We also need to pay attention to the fact that the lending situation, especially for the medium-sized economy, which must be at our heart like nothing else for economic development and for the new growth, is not further aggravated by a bank levy, even by a discussion on Basel III. This is an economic core, because we can then have a good debate of envy, but also an economic effect that is already prejudicating the next crisis in the medium-sized economy, where 60 percent of jobs are at home, with credit bottlenecks. This is a challenge that we have to discuss in the context of the bank levy, which we also have to take into account regarding Basel III accordingly. That is why I am extremely critical of this question. What I suggest and what we should do in the government is to abolish the credit contract fee in return for the bank. This would help both companies and private borrowers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The ÖVP in committee rejected! Stumbling and co-in the Committee prevents!]] I have a few numbers here to illustrate in answering your questions what that would mean. This would mean, for example, a savings of €1,000 for private customers with a credit of €100 000, an operating loan of €500, a business loan of approximately €7 500, and a one-time loan of €5 million for an investment volume of €34 400 as a discharge. We have to think about that too. If we control for the future, when we save, then with steering effects and also with offensive measures in all areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Question 14: – Mr Bucher, you obviously did not understand my questioning! [[Abg. Booker: Don't you go chronologically?]] I have already answered a number of questions. It is no doubt that the 2009 tax reform and the family measures brought a €3 billion reduction in household income in available income for Austria. This was important for purchasing power support. We see, for example, that in the 2009 crisis year, these measures to relieve families, incomes and the medium-sized countries could appropriately stabilise the development of turnover tax and private consumption. Moreover, according to WIFO's early year forecast, the private savings ratio of 12.3 percent in 2009 is significantly higher than the long-term average and serves as a corresponding economic buffer for the future. Question 15: The WIFO has already taken into account the foreseeable consolidation in its medium-term forecast. In the mid-term forecast of January 2010 – parentheses on: what I am talking about here; Clamp to – is therefore already taken into account the foreseeable consolidation. What conclusions have been drawn in the specific case, you can see in the WIFO forecast itself. I think the forecast is realistic and I do not expect any change in the forecast from the specific measures. On the question 16: The Federal Government has already stressed in the stability programme and has repeatedly stressed that it respects the common budgetary responsibility of all local authorities. The concrete detailed agreements will be negotiated in a timely manner with the fixation of the federal share in consolidation with countries and municipalities. The focus in these discussions will be on consolidation measures. I refer here to cooperation, on a common approach to the responsibility of all the political leaders in the different local authorities. Questions 17 and 18: The recognition of the Constitutional Court for the solution of drinking taxes does not affect the distribution of income between the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities, nor the formation of the nine country heads, but merely the distribution of a part of the income shares of the municipalities in the turnover tax within the municipalities of a federal country. Since only a certain part of the financial balance is concerned – namely the division within the communities, as I have said – this knowledge cannot be used as an argument for the renegotiation or renegotiation of the financial compensation. On question 19: According to the Austrian Financial Constitution, the Federal legislator has the possibility to declare taxes on exclusively federal taxes or to determine the divisional conditions in the case of Community federal taxes. These far-reaching competences are subject to the principle of equal pay, § 4 of the Financial Constitutional Act, which states that the distribution of charges must take account of the burdens of public administration and the financial performance of the local authorities. Question 20: The designable discretional expenditure is only a fraction of the total expenditure of the federal government. Given the level of need for consolidation, it is necessary that all major expenditure areas make a significant contribution to consolidation. On the question 22: For interest payments and other expenditure on financial debt, UG 58, around € 9.9 billion is planned in 2014. On the question 23: For the first time, the Federal Financial Framework Act sets binding expenditure limits for the next four financial years. It seems to me that in the debate, what was created here in Parliament often goes down. This legal quality has no other European country in budget planning over four years. And that is a very crucial point for consolidation and for the perspective. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The problem is only, in the end it has to be true!]] This is a very crucial and, indeed, unanimously decided support here in Parliament for a sustainable and forward-looking policy. Mr Westenthaler, you say: In the end, it must be true! – I remember so much because it was one of my first Parliament meetings as Minister of Finance in 2008, in early 2009 with budget planning for the years 2009 and 2010. [[Abg. Grosz: A black day!]] You said exactly the same, Mr Bucher, you and others: All this is not sustainable, what you announce here in the budget planning! Today we know that we have made a point landing because we can do it, Mr Westenthal! And that's the difference to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Abdominal stain!]] A change in the expenditure ceiling is only possible by majority voting here in the House. And the corresponding structural reforms to comply with the expenditure limits are now being developed in the ministries – this is an important indication of your question. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's exactly where you came up with your left foot! Point landing! You better stay on the ground!]] Question 24: The volume of savings per sub-division is estimated in the Strategy Report on page 9. These are savings compared to the status quo scenario. On question 25: A serious budget planning must be based on a development that would result without counter-taxation for the following years. Based on this, the Federal Government has set itself the goal of doing 60 percent on the expenditure side, 40 percent on the revenue side – a wise mix in view of the scale it needs to move. By the way, once again: What we published and carried out in 2009 has kept us on track. On the question 26: The consolidation programme expressed in the Federal Financial Framework Act extends to the medium term, at least until 2014. The necessary measures, in particular the amendment of the substantive laws, therefore do not concern only the year 2011. The Federal Government will develop this measure by autumn and endeavour to submit the necessary legislative drafts to Parliament in good time after carrying out the review procedures. It is a huge task, a great challenge, to make savings where we take the first step, to also implement the right measures together with the revenue side in autumn. On the question 27: In principle, my experts are examining all possible reform considerations in the tax system. I do not actually support a unilateral burden on managers' salaries due to additional taxes, because Austria, as an economic location, must also bring highly qualified managers in international competition to Austria. We need the claim to bring the best people here who can earn money to develop and secure the headquarters and location function for Austria in the sense of thousands and thousands of jobs. This is a task we have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on the financial transaction tax: In my view, this makes sense only in the European equinox. We are very far here with the coalition partner, fighting in all the Council formations of the European Union for the pre-drive of the financial transaction tax as a wise and right idea in the portfolio also the revenue-side discussion in autumn. A single entry of Austria in this area, however, does not seem useful to me. Ladies and gentlemen! Speculative financial transactions are already subject to speculation tax under the Income Tax Act at a rate of 50 percent. On the question 28: In the 2009 tax reform, we have already relieved mainly persons companies. Self-employed small and medium-sized enterprises are undoubtedly the backbone of the domestic economy; two thirds of the self-employed are situated in these small and medium-sized enterprises. The tax reform already benefits them from the general tax relief. In addition, the following measure was taken for them – volume around €250 million –: that we have increased the free amount from currently 10 to 13 percent, on all types of business income and profit analysis. In the interest of small and medium-sized incomes for self-employed persons, the investment condition for profits up to €30 000. We have implemented this, it has worked and helps small and medium-sized enterprises like little else. This was and is, along with the wage tax reduction, the largest relief so far in the tariff area in the history of the Second Republic. On question 29: The European Union has adopted a rating regulation governing the supervision and authorisation of credit rating agencies on the European market. With the Financial Market Stability Act and the Interbank Strengthening Act, Austria has created effective instruments to achieve the objective of ensuring stability in the financial markets in Austria. The Company Liquidity Act has also helped to bridge the credit clamps in the business sector accordingly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But only for the great, you know that – if at all!]] Question 30: National tax law must comply with European rules on fundamental freedoms and, in particular, with the freedom of movement of capital. In this respect, a transfer of profits abroad cannot be prevented on a flat-rate basis and taxed against it. However, my experts in the house are in the process of closing tax loopholes. [[Abg. Bucher: What does Bank Austria pay? What's the price?]] And all the anti-fraud and tax-enforcement packages also prove that we are clearly ahead of what is necessary not only to combat social and transfer abuse, but also tax evasion and fraud accordingly. On question 31: In BFG 2010, payments to foreign countries amounting to € 1 billion in the VA 1/45285 approach are provided. On question 32: The Austrian Parliament is receiving a large number of reports on the development of the federal budget on the basis of the applicable budgetary law. The relevant EU institutions shall receive only the information to be provided under Community legislation. These are currently the financial framework law adopted by the National Council and the Federal Government's strategy report. On question 33: For consolidation, savings are necessary in all areas. The so important areas of safety, work, education and science are of savings, and You know this very well when you look at the numbers – if you look at them – partly excluding them. We therefore ensure the economic and work location of Austria with a clear political focus – internal security, work, education and science – and invest in the future of the country despite savings. On question 34: The current salary agreement runs until 31. ==References== In the past, in October, the competent Federal Minister for Public Service invited the trade union to negotiate. I can therefore only refer at the present time to the practice and responsibilities that have been exercised so far. [[Abg. Scheibner: It says if you are for that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You will still have an opinion!]] On question 35: For politicians, as you know better than I do, there was a zero wage round in 2009 and 2010. I proposed this because of the crisis itself. From my point of view, President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: For the coming years, the National Council will probably have to take appropriate decisions in good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16933	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the speakers should not be more than 10 minutes. Overall speaking time per group: 25 minutes. The first is Mr Scheibner. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e16960	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! Your answer to the last two questions is symptomatic of the problem we also have with you. You once said: Did you notice that a crisis took place? - Of course! That is why we have met again today to discuss with you ways out of this crisis and to prevent the consequences of this crisis from being carried out on the back of the population. We want to prevent that, and we also demand it from you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say, of course, in question 35, for a zero wage round for politicians will be You use yourself – well. But with question 34, your opinion is also asked, not the normal procedure. For political salaries, the normal procedure is to take a decision here in Parliament. But with regard to the question of zero wage rounds among officials, you say goodbye to your own opinion, because this could be unpleasant, especially because the civil servants' union is on the move. And that's why you're saying you can't say anything now that's not your competence. That is the problem, Mr Vice-Chancellor! Now it is also about addressing unpleasant points, implementing reforms also against the resistance of lobbys and groups that are looking only at their own advantages! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what we demand of you. And there is nothing that helps to try to get these issues out of here with overelevation and lust. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... Carinthia!]] That's exactly what I've been waiting for: Carinthia, Carinthia, Carinthia. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! First of all, I'm Wiener, and second: Do you, as vice chancellor and finance minister of the Republic of Austria, fall within the scope of a urgent request to prevent tax increases for the population, always to say “cards”, “hypo”, “cards”, “hypo”? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes because the money costs us! Because this is a reason for the tax increase!]] That's poor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It's poor! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm telling you, I'm not moving at this level and I'm going to stop you: Hypo Niederösterreich, municipal credit, Volksbanken and so on. – At this level I am not moving down, because this is about something else. [[Abg. Grosz: Hypo Lower Austria! Erwin Pröll!]] It is also about something other than detergent slogans like: Increase efficiency, secure growth, manage revenue accordingly, before thinking about new taxes!, but it is really about implementing these principles as well, gaining confidence in the population, and above all in the economy that they will continue to be supported. We haven't overcome the crisis yet! – You always have questions when we ask: What's going to be You still do?, referred to the already executive. We already know that! We also know that there has been a tax reduction in which we have also said that it should have been more severe. But if you say that taxes have now been reduced by € 2 to 3 billion, then we want to discuss the question now: How do we prevent plans for tax increases of €4 billion from coming to the population? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] Yeah, you always say it's not right. What's the matter? – One thing is true, Mr Vice-Chancellor: that you are not willing to slaughter holy cows, namely in the administration – where the billions we want to see lie. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is what Mr Felder tells you, that is what the Court of Auditors is throwing before you, and these are the realities! Now I'm telling you something positive: There are good approaches and ideas in this Federal Government at the Federal Ministers! We had a subcommittee meeting on administrative reform a few days ago. The two ministers Schmied and Karl have been present, and there has been a report in which, to my real surprise, also to the surprise of ÖVP delegates, Mrs Karl, also agreed with Mrs Teaching Minister, has presented this concept, one of one of our ideas, to also implement the Court of Auditors' ideas and to save in the school administration: Saving levels, reducing overcrowding federalism, giving schools more responsibility. Even correct analyses were made there – wonderful! – Yes, you also say: [[Interference from the government bank:Super!]] Great! After perfect, wonderful! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] Then I said: Mrs Bundesminister, you have our full support; let us talk about implementation! – Then, unfortunately, it was over because the Minister of Education had to tell us that she had no competence for the negotiations with the countries. Mr. Finanzminister, who is negotiating this? When will that be implemented? You yourself have said that you have to break the expenditure dynamics of the countries. Where is the initiative to actually implement it? We would ask you to do this – not bring here any flagrant election slogans, but really take the opportunity to take advantage of them. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He can't do that, against the uncle!]] And: When, if not now, Minister of Finance, can we make profound reforms – in the fields of competence, in the school administration, in the health administration, also in the political structures, ladies and gentlemen? You've always said: What does that bring? – The colleague Bucher, who, as you think, does not understand anything – but he was really in the economy for decades – has predicted it: [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I didn’t say that!]] €300 million in savings in the political system would be possible throughout Austria! For example, let's just look at the following: 100 Landtagsreiters in Vienna. If I refer this to the National Council, as measured by the population number, then there would be over 900 Members sitting here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is crazy!]] Very “senseful”, ladies and gentlemen! But you don’t want to change anything about this “sacred cow. ” This is not only the case in Vienna, but also in the other federal states. [[Interim note from the government bank.]] – Of course, that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: 400, not 900!]] These are the things we want to discuss! There are a total of 1,000 district councils, Mr. Cot. And we all need them?- Oh, my God! That's great! – Now, with around 1.6 million inhabitants in Vienna and eight million inhabitants in Austria can [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: 400, not 900!]] I hope you calculate it yourself! [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: Maybe you can calculate it!]] – But that’s what you see again: There are jokes in the back instead of taking up and implementing reform proposals! That would be important, ladies and gentlemen. Where are these real negotiations and the implementation of the demands? If the heads of state believe that they cannot distribute the tax money collected by the federal government, I can only say: Well, then we give them the right to collect taxes so that the national leaders can collect and take responsibility for things that they themselves produce in their own sphere of activity. That would be ideas, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Finanzminister, you have spoken about tax justice and have said that you will accordingly prevent abuse. – After all, there are studies that hundreds of millions of euros, falsely declared, disappear in the case of VAT reimbursement and are not controlled. These are all things that we have wanted to discuss here, where we could avoid tax increases through these revenues and through expenditure efficiency. Mr. Finanzminister, you say the Ministries are saving. That's where I ask you: How's that? They may save a measured estimate in 2009. But you know that there is a success in 2009, i.e. the actual figures on expenditure of €69 billion, that is exactly the €69 billion you are now taking as future expenditure. – Therefore: Nothing is actually saved, but everything you finance through revenue and tax increases. This is not the confidence we expect from a Finance Minister of the Republic of Austria in this crisis situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17195	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17217	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner's proposals are really absurd. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] If you, Mr Scheibner, complain about more than 100 members of the parliament in Vienna, then tell us that this is the only 100 councillors in Vienna at the same time! Show me a federal country that comes out with so few politicians – and that is even so if one calculates the district councils in Vienna. There are up to 60 district councils in a district, but we are talking about districts with over 100,000 inhabitants. If you change this to other federal states, you will need to find out: That would mean 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, or 8,000 municipal councils, compared to Vienna. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That only proves the correctness...!]] – When we talk about slender political structures here, I can only say: Vienna is an example as far as slimming in political structures is concerned. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unbelievable applause at the SPÖ!]] If I look at the proposals in this urgent question and if that were to be implemented, then at the end of the day only one thing remained: huge debt, more every year, in record time. The only thing you really propose here is that the political salaries are not increased. This may save € 1 million and fortunately € 2 million a year, but it is a need for consolidation of several billion. This proposal is the only one you submit from the BZÖ. On the other hand, what the Federal Government submits with the Federal Financial Framework Act is clearly based on the rules of the game, which we have decided unanimously here with the new federal budgetary law, namely that in spring there is the framework – and in autumn the details. The Federal Government says openly and honestly: The crisis we need to finance is the money it is about, and therefore: 40 percent on the revenue side and 60 percent on the expenditure side. The details will then come in autumn, where there are several proposals from different political groups – but unfortunately not from the opposition, but exclusively from the government parties. Löblich have been mentioned here – I do this myself – proposals by the ministers Schmied and Karl, who have clearly presented what they want to do in terms of administrative reform in their field. These are forward-looking steps, especially as regards the administration of schools, and this, at least, has the full support of our group to implement these things, because the expenditure side is also the bigger side, the one that we are dealing with as well as with the revenue side. But there the said Federal Ministers certainly have our support. But there is – Minister of Finance Pröll said this in his contribution anyway – of course not only the international cause, so that one cannot say that it was only the “evil uncle” from America who brought us the crisis, but that is also a system crisis. There is already evidence of the way in which not only in the United States – perhaps more visible to everyone than in Austria – the deregulation of the financial world, including in Austria, has been taken more and more risky, but always higher profits, higher salaries and higher risks have been taken in turn, so that all of this has not worked any more. This was perpetuated – to the extreme – in the USA. Nevertheless, it is not easy to say that Austria has nothing to do with this because: Austria is just as part of this political system and this economic system, and the deregulation has also been promoted in Austria – with exactly the same consequences as we have seen at the Hypo in Carinthia, for example. In this respect, it is of course particularly strange if the BZÖ proposes measures here, where it itself has the political responsibility for the greatest pleite. The whole state of Carinthia would have pleaded at the hypo if the state of Austria had not jumped in. This was a pleite sum of €18 billion, where the Republic of Austria jumped into the break for Carinthia. What we have presented on the revenue side is the seven-point programme, where we clearly say: We want it to be responsible – say: Bank levy – it is paid for to be paid socially fairly. This means that those who today contribute nothing or much less than those who go to work make a fair contribution. Therefore also: the question of capital increase taxation, but also changes in the tax system, with regard to the deductibility of manager salaries. Furthermore, the financial transaction tax, also other areas in the field of group taxation and the prevention of tax evasion are included in this seven-point programme, where we say: That is where we need changes, which are major changes, clear changes, which we also argue that we can calculate. We from SPÖ have put this on the table, the coalition partner has also put proposals on the table, so both are on the table. We will look at all of this carefully and discuss it, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. Tomorrow we start with the parliamentary treatment of the Federal Financial Framework, and in autumn there are the details – just as is foreseen in federal budgetary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17306	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17327	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Bucher is not in the hall now, unfortunately. – I understand political discussions in such a situation, only: A political debate requires a minimum degree of seriosity. And unlike what I know about my colleague Bucher, this has not been the case today. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then you have to judge the answer!]] My colleague, Mr Bucher, has obviously taken a great deal of effort. But that's not actually the measure I've been to Joseph's bookkeeping. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is typical! – You just say that because you don't have a service post...!]] The fact that after such a speech there is a certain indication is certainly clear, for: Those who know the budget situation in Carinthia will have to point out the responsibility of the BZÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: A shame for Upper Austria are you!]] But what is far more important at this time and in the seriality of an argument that we have to carry out: Yes, we have a crisis, the biggest since the 1930s in the last century, but we have to say what that means. The crisis causes the state to take less and spend more. Logically, taxes decrease as growth declines, and expenditure increases as unemployment increases. That's a perfectly clear thing. Clearly, everyone here in this House will be – at least I would like to remind everyone – that there was a consensus here, across parties, to combat this crisis with all the means available to us, because we clearly have the common responsibility to keep this crisis as low as possible for Austria. Therefore, a unanimous decision in the area of banking package, for example, bank stabilisation. We have decided on two economic programmes here in the House, and the opposition has criticized the economic programmes because they are supposed to be too few. But what is the meaning of the bank package and the economic programme? – More expenditure of the State. And what is the result of that? – A higher deficit and debt. Yes, if that can't be said, dear friends you want to discuss here in a serious way?- Oh, my God! – This truth must be expressed, because only when we speak the truth can we respond properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is equally true that budgetary law has also been unanimously adopted in this House – by the way, a big throw, I still believe, and Parliament should be proud of this legal opportunity that we have created, because it now gives the government a hand to plan for the long term. These are the frameworks, and therefore it is perfectly logical that in this situation, our priority must be to reassess these debts as quickly as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In my opinion, debt is the major problem, not only for the management of the future, but also for the current economic situation. Yesterday, it was clear from the IMF report that the real risk to economic development is the debt of the states, and that is why we must do everything we can to re-indebted the debt, ladies and gentlemen. . We have been responsible for it for good reason, but now we have, the Federal Government has the responsibility to make the more difficult part of the exercise, namely the debt. There is no alternative to that! Those who impoverish public debt, ladies and gentlemen, are impoverishing the risk in it, and those who provoke public debt as a solution have not realized that public debt is the real problem. And now the question is: Who? – This is a legitimate discussion. For us, there is a very clear list of priorities. The first priority is: as soon as possible back to growth, because growth on the one hand increases revenue in a natural way and reduces expenditure in a natural way – back to growth! Any investment in the future, in exports, in research: That's the right, important priority number one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Priority number two is also clear: This is called a reduction in expenditure. But, ladies and gentlemen in this House, we will still have many discussions on this issue of expenditure reduction, and I already know the respective members of the opposition, who will come out and say at every point in the expenditure reduction or reduction: No, no, no! I have another thesis: I believe that we need to put forth much more effort, that is my firm conviction – at all levels: Federation, countries, communities – and that we really have to go down there. [[Intervocations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course the truth that the Ultima Ratio is ultimately the following: If there is no other way, the tax issue – as painful as that is, and I share the opinion of the Minister of Finance, who has done everything to prevent this option or to keep it as small as possible – may be the Ultima Ratio that does not save us. But then, in the tax debate, I also put very important questions on the table from my point of view: What is the growth effect of taxes? – We already have an extremely high tax rate. What is the distribution effect of taxes? What is the steering effect of taxes? And what is the location effect of taxes? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Exactly! And that's how you do it with the foundations!]] I do not want to participate in the competition and the race, but I want us to define these economic criteria and then decide. I am sure that these economic criteria are the standard that our Minister of Finance is taking in this difficult discussion. These are the criteria that will decide at the end of the day. This path will probably not be spared from us. I would rather it would be without – like everyone in this house, I suppose – but if it doesn't go any other way, then according to economic expertise and not to ideology.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17452	Mr Themessl has now come to terms. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17473	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear visitors! Mr. Magister Molterer, you are perfectly right: We have decided here to combat this crisis with all the means available to us. And if you put this request here today, then the decision would be unanimous again because it is in the interest of all parties in this House to fight this crisis and return to healthy growth as soon as possible and do not have to impose additional burdens on the population. It is only the access of the individual parties to these available resources that is completely different, and this government has, until a few weeks ago, maintained that this budget is purely expenditure-friendly. . I recall many statements made by Mr Vice-Chancellor, but also by Mr Bundeskanzler. The only ones who warned months ago that expenditure cannot go on were the Greens. I would remind colleagues Kogler, Mr Van der Bellen, who said months ago that a reorganisation of this budget is simply not possible on the expenditure side, and the government laughed at these two gentlemen at that time. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Yes, of course! You don't have that! Until a few weeks ago have You said that the budget can be reorganised on the part of expenditure and that there is no tax increase. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Only about my body!, you said – but you are still alive and you are now only talking about tax charges. [[New interim remark from Vice-Cancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Mr Bucher, you're right in a lot of things. The only thing you're wrong with is the following: They have said that a black tax cloud will move across Austria. – This assessment is wrong, because the black tax cloud remains over Austria, and after the Vienna elections and after the Styria elections a red flash will flash and then the whole thing will pour out as a permanent rain over this population, this tax burden that comes upon us. That's the case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: (keeping the photo of a smoking volcano) Has a certain similarity!]] Four or five hours ago we had here the so-called current European hour, the current hour of European policy, and the government parties – both from red and from black – have always come: Yes, economic growth in Europe is very bad compared to India, China and other economies in the world. We are talking about economic growth in Europe of 1 percent, in Austria we are talking about 1.3 percent, and all have said: This delicate plant needs to be preserved now, cast and must continue to grow, because economic growth from 1.6 to 2 percent then really helps the economy again and perhaps also helps to reduce taxes again in the future. Now, five hours later, it is only about you – and you are outnumbering each other – finding new proposals for new taxes. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. When?]] What could new taxes mean? How high should they be? What do you need to get in there? – You risk this economic growth! Believe the Lords Felder and Aiger, your own experts – that only where I give them right –: Any additional discussion on tax increases threatens economic growth. Now, economic growth is one of the most important parameters in order to define the strategy for the next few years: In order to create a budget for the next few years, the most important point of this economic growth is that it depends very much on it. And if you are threatening this economic growth today and Austria has not 1.3 percent economic growth in this year, but less than 1 percent, then you can anyway stamp your strategy paper and re-form or re-calculate it, because your whole numbers are no longer voting and it is therefore wrong. What I criticize about you is that you spend 90 percent of your energy inventing new taxes, thinking about what these taxes might be called, and not thinking about what savings potential you could really use. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] I'll give you the right. If you address the administrative reform – and we have broken down into 14 detailed points where savings are possible – I am right to say that in many things, this administrative reform does not involve these savings potential in the first year. But then, in order not to endanger the economy, you must have the kindness to purchase the higher debt for a year if, in the future, a savings potential of several billion euros is available. – I expect you to be the responsible Minister of Finance, and nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can do you because You're so smart and you use all your energy to invent new taxes, say a few things – because on the expenditure side, you're always just behind the 'administrative reform' tag – which is possible: [[Abg. Amon: You talked about that!]] Reform of health care, reform of the social and care sector, reduction and merger of social security funds, reform in the school sector – which has already been addressed today – reform in the promotion sector. Do you know that in Austria 5.6 percent of the gross domestic product is spent on subsidies? – That’s currently 15,6 billion €! This is an end to the introduction of the transparency account, but the transparency account also applies to all support payments: both in the agricultural sector and in the industrial sector and in the commercial sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Our idea! Our idea]] - Yeah, why don't you do it? They always say: Our idea, but you don't. That's the big problem you've got. That's exactly the problem you've got! Theme 350 000 unemployed: A unemployed person costs the Austrians in the year 25 000 €. This is not just about unemployment benefit, it is about paying the pension contributions that have to be paid for health insurance contributions, which have to be paid to the AMS share. 400,000 unemployed people cost the Austrian state €10 billion per year. – If you manage to force economic growth and reduce unemployment by 100 000, you have saved €2.5 billion. You know, that doesn't bring you the CO2 tax, that doesn't bring you the mineral oil tax. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] One word on the CO2 tax: You know that if you introduce or increase the CO2 tax and the mineral oil tax, 10 000 jobs in the transport industry fall immediately – they are at acute risk – you know that! . and another 70 000 jobs, directly or indirectly employed in the transport sector, are included. We are at risk that we will also lose 100 000 jobs in Austria, and not by 100 000 unemployed people in Austria. Think about it at last! Take full advantage of the savings potential in expenditure and finally stop thinking about new taxes!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17641	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17691	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning we have already heard a little, and tomorrow morning it will be similar – I think you will be able to distinguish the arguments a little more clearly from each other. But one could also take these urgent ones on the occasion and, at one time, actually lead to an economic policy rather than just a purely fiscal and fiscal debate, because things are related. You tried to explain, Willi Molterer, too. [[towards Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Now this financial policy side has at least a few components, and not just the taxes – that was the reason why we said we were going to land there sometime – but let's start somewhere else. That was your proposal. It's about saving, yes – I don't want to reinterpret the term right now – to make sense. But it is certain that if we are already on the expenditure side, also the focus, where at least even more is to be spent, in order to perhaps be better on it later, even now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] And thirdly, it's a baseline, if there's a certain balance; it's always just three sizes: Expenditure, revenue and what is left is usually a deficit. If this is not to become too high, because the interest payments otherwise eat up the largest or a very large part of the future budgets – they are already larger than many ministerial budgets, you have to recognise that too – because otherwise you would have to remove that from the state with a huge wave of inflation, which you do not trust without further consent, it will be impossible if we agree on a certain baseline to talk about where we get the money we can, because we should not be saved with the lawn mower, otherwise not get in. And now I'm allowed to take a brief look at the questioner and ask him a question, because there's something that's different from us. I already know that you are flashing towards your clientele – now there is the BZÖ long enough that you can also identify something like target groups, and there is good if you can say... – Don't be so cynical! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Not anymore!]] It's good to be able to say: No new taxes, never again! And at all, that sounds great. They have brought the comparison with Switzerland – much lower tax rate. Okay, seriously. Then we want, as it were, such an economic and social system that corresponds to Switzerland. You can have that, but I'll tell you one thing: In economic and social policy, it is also good to look at the speeds of adaptation to see the outrages that we are creating. How soon do you want to be there? Here you have to explain the following, gentlemen of BZÖ: Either the deficit has to rise massively – then you have to explain how this debt service can be reduced – or, because new taxes may not be, you have to explain where expenditure cuts are to take place beyond the extent proposed by the government. [[Abg. Amon: Actually! More specifically!]] They have to be huge, you have to say that. I mean, you don't need my attorney's help, but because we did, that in this urgent, then read in the Minutes, we really want to carry out a serious economic policy argument now, and that was not to be heard, colleague Bucher, because it was rather the flashing to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that are obviously to be picked up with the call: [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's precise!]] [[Abg. Bucher: I said!]] No new taxes! And that's exactly what's going on. [[Abg. Bucher: But the taxes...!]] So let us start with the question of taxes: It won't go without it. And who's to pay her? Relationship – more economically interesting – which sectors, because that has all the consequences. Mr Molterer said: Employment and growth effects – I actually don't start like that anymore. So: Economic and employment, long-term growth, but of course also steering effects, including the environmental issue. But, in this situation, we are already there, where we normally gather under the heading “social justice, ” the distribution effects are also to be seen. And I do not really understand you here, Mr Bucher, and the colleagues from the FPÖ at least no more. [[Abg. Grain Duration: Be careful!]] Ideology is yours if you say nothing is going to happen there – that is to say, with those who have a very high income; Mr Herbs has made a proposal again today. I'm telling you honestly: From my point of view, this top-rate tax debate is totally irrelevant – in the case of the given asset distribution in Austria – because then it comes, and there you are not at home at all, in the property-related taxes. Austria has a gap in the distribution of assets, how it can only be sought throughout Europe. They always say we have a relative equal distribution and refer to the distribution of income, but all statistics show something different – if they are available at all, because there is a policy of our own in this country that there is almost no such thing. I'll keep this to you: The Socialists have many years of failure to answer, which means that we can only compare our situation statistically very difficult with other countries. But what we know now that some are finally starting to research, finds its result where we are allowed to say there is an blatant difference in almost all types of property: real estate, stock ownership, classical money – everywhere there is a very big difference in distribution. If you all aggregate, you conclude that the top percent of the owners in Austria have a third – the highest percent! – and the next 9 percent the next third. Yeah, what does that mean? - One and nine is ten. The top 10 percent – not the top ten thousand, but the top 10 percent! – two thirds of the assets and the remaining 90 percent have only one third. And if you do this and compare it with the Federal Republic of Germany now, you will notice that this is much flatter there. It is already the question of whether this is a desirable state. I claim that it is even of interest to growth policy in the long term that this is a bit more equal, because I also believe that even in such a small country as Austria domestic demand still plays a role. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Now we're right at the point: If we have to collect taxes – you have denied that until recently, but we are not talking about these insults today – then it is also useful – yes, tactical lie is good – to look, just as Willi Molterer has said, where it is most reasonable to access economic and employment policy. [[New interim remark from Vice-Cancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Further notice from Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] And the stupid thing is that we're landing where you're obviously obliged to have some clients. Now, just so, purely economically reasonablely thought, we are not going to avoid – even if the Social Democrats now speak the same text in this regard, they have to enforce it – that we have to do something about wealth growth taxes, that we may have to do something with the exchange rate tax – which alone does not make the herb fat either. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] At this point, addressed to the Social Democrats: You always tell us you're there now, and you keep telling us that the financial transaction tax is such a great source of revenue. Financial transaction tax is a very important thing, but it must be introduced at least in Europe, otherwise it is Humbug, otherwise we need the stock exchange VAT. Only one thing should be clear, especially the comrades: That goes into the EU budget, you know that very well. Only a year and a half ago, in a five-party application, we decided on the Austrian position on the financial transaction tax and gave the Federal Government the way. It is expected to be used in the EU budget for this and that, among other things, for development cooperation. And what are you doing? – You advertise every day in the newspaper – you know how it works; a few ads and next to the report – that the financial transaction tax is recorded as Austrian revenue, with 1.5 billion, so to speak, half of the total. So we are not going to go on, thought in both directions, if we want to argue rationally. So we need to look exactly where else is going. In our proposals – we trust this – we also come to the appropriate revenue at this point. Now on the question of ecologisation, because you have addressed this in your campaign, as I almost have to say. First of all, it is not quite the truth that has been said about taxes, then they have been ecologically justified. It is true that an increase in the tax on mineral oil is an ecological measure, measured by the alternatives, but the major environmental tax reform would be quite different. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Now I say as a greener and even argue with one or another green friend that we can't go up to the height of everything that controls resource and environmental destruction without going down elsewhere, because in contrast to property-related taxes, this would be very likely to affect households and businesses. This type of reform would require, on the basis of job and employment grounds, that we reduce labour costs in other places to about the same extent, both for businesses and for households, to the extent they have to bear. This would really be an ecological reorganisation with the corresponding employment effects. So we should not be too early – the mineral oil tax also has a mass tax effect, although with a more reasonable steering effect than the VAT increase I am always imposing on you – but rather reasonable. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is, a genuine eco-tax reform is necessary, and if you do it properly, it has employment effects. However, we cannot at the same time renovate the budget, but we must do that where your clientele hurts. – Don’t lie at least at this point and tell the truth! You'll have a chance tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17872	Mr Kogler, you too: The word “lying”, we have agreed, is not used in this hall. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Minister told me!]] – This also applies to Mr Vice-Chancellor, if he has really whispered it as you have said. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: This is a lie! I didn't offer it!]] Mr Ing. Lugar, you're next. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e17917	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! When a volcano bubbles, an ash cloud comes out. We've known that for about a week. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: We already know it longer!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] If it's bubbling in the budget, a tax cloud will come out. We have known that for decades now, that whenever there are problems in the budget, we are called after tax increases. The only connection that exists here, because it is not a natural law, that every problem in the budget has to be raised immediately, is the refusal of reform, which has existed for decades and which you are also operating, Mr. Finanzminister. They are refusing reform and resort to the simplest means of raising taxes. Mr Finanzminister, you said you did not cause the crisis. I'm right, you certainly haven't caused the crisis. Also Austria has not caused it. We have certainly contributed a lot to this, not a question, but we have not caused it. But the budget crisis has caused you very much; not just you, but all your predecessors. If you, Mr Molterer, make yourself here and give us insight into how a budget should be as regards revenue and expenditure, and so on, then I can only tell you one thing: They managed, at a time before the crisis, when the revenue was disintegrated, when the budget growth was very robust when the party was in full Gan- ge, to achieve a deficit in spite of more revenue of almost €10 billion. – That is exactly the problem, Mr Molterer, Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance. It could be that this crisis has brought us into this situation. It could be. It could also be that we now have to bite in the sour apple, because that was so inevitable as many here claim. – But the comparison makes us sure. If we look at another country, let's see if it really is! [[Abg. Amon: Now I'm excited!]] There is a country in Europe that is not a member of the EU and about the size about comparable to Austria, and that is – that is no secret – Switzerland; [[Abg. Amon: The Vatican!]] Mr Bucher has already mentioned this. Switzerland had similar problems in the 1990s, and Switzerland did its homework. Switzerland has covered the expenditure and has not only made an administrative reform, but in general has made a reform. Switzerland has managed to produce surpluses from 2005 onwards and has even budgeted almost 2 billion surpluses in the 2009 crisis year. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Budgeted, but not done!]] Switzerland has done this. Now I'm wondering, Why don't we do that? – I can give you the answer: because there is a refusal of reform in our country, not only since Mr Pröll is the Minister of Finance or Mr Molterer was the Minister of Finance, but that goes much further back. That must be done now! It must be finally concluded that whenever the budget runs out of the row, the taxpayers' pockets will be seized and the problems will not be addressed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They're going the easy way. What happens if there are problems in the administration when there are too large tasks when administrative tasks are delegated that are no longer modern? – It is not reformed, no, but it is taken into the taxpayer’s pocket. It's the same in the health system. They do not address the problems because you are afraid of taking the national icons, some of which are from your party, into duty. [[Call the ÖVP: Stop!]] You finally have to do the homework! I am in principle willing to talk about tax increases – but as an emergency programme. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] That is, if you do your homework, if you implement all the reform steps that the Court of Auditors takes to your heart when you have finally done so, then we can also talk about tax increases. But I'm not ready to go the opposite way. A year ago it said: We are working hard on administrative reform, we are trying to save expenditure on a number of sides. That's what it called a year ago. Now it says: We'll talk about it in a year. That means we've lost two years. If this continues, nothing will change until the next National Council election, and what will be implemented, we already know. One will be careful to make something unpleasant, because as a learned Austrian one knows that this is not too popular. State Secretary Lopatka said to me: We're finally going to do this. We're taking this step by step. First, education is on it. – Where are the reforms, and why cannot all reforms be addressed at the same time? With regard to tax increases I hear creative ideas every day, every day, like from a machine gun come new ideas. As far as the administrative reform is concerned, there is nothing at all about savings. I can imagine you'd rather go the easy way that you'd rather go the path of the slightest resistance, according to the motto: We get the taxpayers in the bag and hope they forgot everything in three or four years. When a small sugar is given, everything is all right. If you were to work with your country chiefs, with your representatives in your alliances and other fields of influence, that would of course be a hard path, a rocky path, no question, but I believe you have been chosen for it. They were not chosen to go the easy way and leave the real problems outside. Switzerland has recognized this and has gone this way. That wasn't easy either. There have been many problems in Switzerland, but she did it. That is why we need these reforms, even though the Federal Chancellor has said that we have no hurry in this area. - I don't know why he believes that. In any event, I believe that it is not five to twelve, but five to twelve, and therefore I ask you to go. Not the simple way, but go the right way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18031	Mrs Mag. Rudas is now coming to the fore. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18060	There are also good and opposite calls – yours is getting more and more on the back. Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators and visitors to the gallery, nice that there are still people and follow the discussion! In itself, it is a rather exciting discussion about the questions: What's after the crisis? How do we consolidate the budget? How do we do repair work? Unfortunately, I didn't hear a single proposal from the oranges – I didn't expect it from the blues at all. I've heard what they're against, some funny slogans and headlines, but I haven't heard a single proposal. I hope that it is undisputed that we consolidate the budget, that we have to do repair work to prevent the young people in our country from going into the future with debt. [[Abg. Scheibner: Have you ever heard of administrative reform?]] Mr Westenthaler, what is your proposal? What is your proposal to consolidate the budget? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No bad taxes!]] It's impossible to save unless you come here and say: We delete the family allowance, we block schools and hospitals, we delete various social transfers. Then be so honest and say that's your plan! – Suddenly no call? So that's not your plan. Nice to meet you. So we agree: Only saving alone is a good saying, a good slogan, but unrealistic. History teaches us and also all scientists, economists, experts confirm the following: It is intelligent to consolidate the budget in a balanced way on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. This means, of course, saving, reducing bureaucracy, but we will also have to consider measures on the part of revenue, while doing so in a just and cost-effective manner. First of all, account should be taken of: What does Austria live on? – Austria’s tax pot lives on consumption and wages, but – Mr Kogler has already made this quite clear – not on capital taxes. We therefore want to act fairly on the revenue side. However, I do not quite understand what the BZÖ has against the fact that, for example, stock speculators pay as many taxes as a grandmother on her savings book. What is the objection? - No call, okay. What is the objection that banks are paying a tax? They're making profits again, they're getting better again. What is the objection? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – Intervocations that I can't understand, unfortunately. What is... – Wait! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what bank customers pay! “Evil taxes” because that’s what customers pay!]] Calm down, the next proposal will be made! What is your objection to the fact that manager salaries of €500 000 are at least no longer paid by taxpayers, so they cannot be tax deductible? - No objection! So we agreed on this: There are also, as I mentioned recently, good, fair revenues and taxes. Just as we are doing with the revenue, namely, in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle, those who have contributed to this crisis should also make a contribution to the repair work, we are also going to save. Yes to red tape, yes to an administrative reform! I'm excited if the BZÖ, whether the FPÖ, will go along with the entire opposition when we're ready. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: We have put in enough proposals!]] I am excited if you then, if we, the government, take action to reduce bureaucracy, that you make the administrative apparatus slimmer, that you modernize the administration system, that you are all in it. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Yes!]] There will be enormous resistance, because you have never supported the government in these modernisation proposals. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Please agree to our requests!]] I would remind you then; I can't imagine it yet. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an interesting discussion that we are now holding, there are various proposals on the table. [[Abg. Scheibner: Make it! Do it!]] There are also different proposals in the government. The Federal Chancellor has demanded a authenticity test, I think it makes sense. I also think it makes sense for the opposition to participate in the discussion and make proposals – I have not heard a single proposal from you – and then we agree on something together. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Thank you for allowing us to discuss!]] That is not enough in this discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18244	Mr Dr. Stummvoll is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18265	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! When Klubobmann Bucher went out, he whispered to me that he was hoping for support. I take this up and I would like to start by saying the following: I have some understanding of the urgent request made by the BZÖ, but not because a few are really sympathetic colleagues in the BZÖ, but because I understand, of course, because I understand that the smallest group in the House, which in the surveys is about between 2, 3 and 4 percent, naturally tries to create a certain media interest through parliamentary events. [[Call BZÖ: Go!]] They believe that the scenario with black tax clouds is suitable for this. I'm just telling you one thing: I believe that the issue of consolidation of state finances, stability of state finances, is far too serious to change the policy of small and medium-sized enterprises. That, Mr Bucher, I have to say, unfortunately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the matter itself: I do not want to go ahead with tomorrow's debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act, but I really want to focus on the tax issues and join Mrs Rudas – who has left the hall in the meantime – who has meant some time ago that there are "good" and "evil" taxes. I'd like to make this a little more economic. I say there are taxes on growth and employment which are harmful, and there are taxes promoting growth and employment. That sounds, Mrs Rudas, a little more nuanced than your classification into good and bad taxes. [[Abg. May. Worm: It's not objective with you either!]] If I look at some of the tax proposals of the last few weeks without a source, I have to say that for me a growth-friendly idea is the ecologisation of the tax system, especially when it is linked to offensive elements such as: Resources from it to be used for research and development, resources to use for green jobs, resources to use for energy efficiency and thermal insulation. This is growth-friendly, it is growth and employment-enhancing. There are other taxes that are harmful to growth and are also harmful to employment, the question – we discussed it yesterday, I invited myself to an informal debate – on tax arrangements for foundations, for example. We have found that there are tax advantages of the foundations and there are tax disadvantages of the foundations, but above all – and we have discussed many details – what the Foundation association says floats. The most important thing for pens is not individual tax provisions, but the most important is: Which country guarantees planning security, reliability, trust? There is no question, therefore, that any tax increase discussion with foundations – I have not given any sources; the direction will probably be voted, Mr. Bucher, but once again, I do not call any sources and no names – is of course already harmful to the location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] And let us not forget about this – I have said that many times –: Economic location always means jobs, income and, ultimately, social security. In this sense, I always oppose when tax proposals come to distinguish between workers on the one hand and business on the other. I'm always saying, and I'm firmly convinced – no one has yet taken the counter-proof –: All that we do for the economy, we do in the interests of the workers. Our businesses – and there are many, many examples – are virtuous enough to make their profits abroad as well. All that we do, we do to ensure that jobs remain in Austria. This, ladies and gentlemen, should be taken note of. In my opinion, in the same way, it is missing to say – whatever is being done again – that those who have caused the crisis should now pay for the crisis. It was only yesterday that Ewald Novotny, governor of the central bank, meant years ago my predecessor as the chairman of the financial committee, that our banks, who are mentioned again and again, were not the perpetrators, but rather the victims of a crisis. What triggered the crisis? Let's be honest! – It’s always the same thing: Whether in the US or Greece, it is never good to live on its conditions in the long run. The excessive private and public debt in the USA has triggered the global financial crisis. What is happening in Greece is due to the fact that the Greeks have lived over their conditions for years. That is what we do not want, and that is exactly why I am glad – but we will discuss this tomorrow – that we have this Federal Financial Framework Act, in which a cover for the next four years has been drawn up for expenditure. I think an incredible progress! Again: In the case of taxes, please do not distinguish between good and bad, but between growth and employment-related and growth- and employment-friendly. In this sense, I am already looking forward to tomorrow's debate on the Federal Financial Framework Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18332	Mr Grastaur has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18354	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think the budget can be rehabilitated with superiority. I think the situation is so serious that we can only solve this problem with everyone. Mr. Federal Minister Pröll, you are always talking about you making the 2008 tax reform. I can already remind you that you have tried to prevent this tax reform until recently. The Austrian People's Party absolutely did not want to, and how good it is that this tax reform has been made because it enabled domestic consumption to be saved and a pillar kept in the economic situation! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He's right!]] Mr. Federal Minister, I can remind you of yesterday’s “ZiB” – of course! – where Mrs Thurnher said to you: [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Did you look at it?]] Today we are talking about taxes! – You have not lost any word about the new taxes, but you have always acted as if the Federal Government were only saving more in the future. So they actually said something wrong to the people or put something before them. You have promised before the election of the Chamber of Commerce – that has gone through all the media – you will eliminate the 0.8 percent credit fee that would expire. To date, there is this 0.8 percent credit fee. Where's the completion? [[Abg. Scheibner: They voted against it in committee!]] [[Abg. Head: In connection with the bank tax! It was quite clear!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mr Krainer, if, like you, everyone always defends their own clientele and says: There's nothing going on, we can't save!, we won't come to the goal of getting this state back into a reasonable water. Mr Molterer, I remind you when you were Minister of Finance, of the good years we thanked God at the time: You have consumed all the surpluses that the country has produced! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It didn't come up with a single reserve, you spent all the money again. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's not true at all!]] You certainly remember: I asked you once if that was necessary. You said: I've reached my 1.5 percent deficit, and that's it. If you didn't... – Mr. Molterer, that was it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] I can remember exactly because this is annoying me to this day. Really! [[Abg. May. One plus one is one, Mr. Molterer.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Yeah, yeah, it's all right. But I know it was. You have spent all the surpluses that the state has given you again! [[Abg. May. Molterer: My God!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Why did the debt ratio fall?]] A supplement to the communications made by my colleague, Themessl, on the promotions. He has told you that funding in Austria accounts for 5.6 percent of GDP and is € 15.6 billion. However, he has forgotten to say that the EU cut is 2.6 percent. So in this position alone, almost €7 billion of reserves are inside. Ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition, why don't you go about things? Mrs Rudas, if you are never in the house, if you are not present here, you cannot hear our proposals to improve the budget we have made on-going. Finally, make an adjustment of pensions to ASVG height and condition as regards the municipality of Vienna, the country of Salzburg and also the country of Carinthia! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What does that mean? Retirements or what?]] Why not also bring the employees of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank to this ASVG-pension? Why do we always talk about increasing the retirement age – for men to 67, for women also higher, to 62 likely – if in the meantime we have only a retirement age of 58, 59 years? Let us finally try to bring the retirement age to the legal heights of 65 and 60 years! – Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Tosser applause!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You can praise if you want. I would like to add a few to the arguments made by Switzerland, which have already been brought twice today. Swiss GDP is measured by 45 percent in debt. We are currently 67 and are approaching 77 percent, so we are twice as high as the Swiss indebtedness. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What is the double of 45?]] And this, of course, corresponds to the interest services that we have to provide, which is not the case with the Swiss. The Swiss have a 5% better tax rate. We will probably have much higher rates of tax due to the new taxes that we are in the house. It has already been mentioned that the Swiss were able to generate surplus in the 2009 crisis year in excess of 2.7 billion Swiss francs. We have made what is celebrated in the deficit a point landing of almost €8 billion annually. There's a lot wrong here. Maybe we should go to Switzerland to see how they do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: “Zur” Switzerland?]] Mr Finanzminister, I would like to make another sentence from you on 23. Cite October 2009: "If the other side does not want to keep the expenditure discipline, it places tax increases in space. Somewhere the money has to come. I can only say, without me. – More taxes, not with this Minister of Finance.” Actually, you'll have to step back from now on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18580	Mrs Lichtenecker is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18602	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Without a doubt, the debate on the budget, on tax systems is a very important and exciting one, because it is about justice, it is about future design, it is also about steering effects, it is about efficiency and, of course, also about fairness. In this respect, it is also good to consider the factual arguments and quite Pro and Kontra on the respective topics. Mr Rudas is not present in the House at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Not only “not quite”, that is a permanent state!]] Mrs Rudas has always spoken of justice. The question is how to understand justice in other contexts. Is it fair, for example, that children who grow up in the city center are always burdened by traffic, inhale fine dust and become sick as a result? This is a negative effect – in the financial sector, it is called the negative external effect of transport – which one has to deal with in terms of environmental policy and health policy. Or: Is it fair that the industrialized countries, undisputedly responsible and centrally responsible, are driving ahead with CO2 emissions and climate change worldwide, but do not have to address the consequences? This has to be done mainly by developing countries, countries along the equator. – These are also questions of justice that you have to answer. Mr Minister, we are in a moving, interesting and exciting time when we need to look closely at this. I believe that the issue of eco-social change in the tax system is really central to this. But what happened in the discussion now: What you, now I specifically call the ÖVP to bring in with regard to eco-taxes, is a serious threat and makes what is actually in it a farce. Walking with this eco-smooth in this form is simply unreasonable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, you have three essential aspects in the Austrian tax system, where the experts, including the international experts, say it is outdated: We have too low wealth taxes – which have already been received today – and we have too low environmental taxes – we are also the final light of OECD data – and we have too high labour costs. So why not do that in concrete terms and work on it? For this purpose, an eco-social tax reform is appropriate, but it is quite clear with the view to using what is taken into account via eco-tax to relieve households and businesses. That is exactly what is possible, and we Greens have also developed a concept for this – with the support of very important Austrian tax experts, for financing issues. That is exactly what we are convinced of, and the data and figures show it, is also the starting point for future-oriented growth. If Mr Molterer is always talking about the return to growth, what growth is the question? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: To a qualitative growth!]] Minister! About qualitative growth? Then you'll define that! It can't be what you've done with the business package, for example, scrap premium. This is a cementing of old structures, which we wish to reject and which we would like to have differently in the new budget and in the Federal Financial Framework Act: a new quality, an eco-social tax reform with a clear focus on job creation, fair distribution and very clear orientation also on ecological criteria. This requires, of course, consistency, clarity, participation and partiality, even if this is not at the heart of the discussion at the moment, namely not in Austria, but internationally very well. It is now important to work on this in the coming weeks and months and also tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18657	Mr Mag. Widmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18679	Thank you, Madam President. High house! One thing bothers me in this debate: This is the game between oppo-sion and government parties, according to which the government parties have eaten the wisdom, so to speak, of the yellow of the egg – as is said in the Mühlviertel – while at the opposition the stupid ones who make their proposals are the greens, the blues or the oranges. And that is exactly what you have seen today, Mr. Finanzminister, when our Clubobmann Bucher presented his ideas, with loose hand movements, with intermediate calls and many other things. [[Abg. Amon: That was a urgent request, not a presentation of ideas! You have questions!]] Mr Finanzminister, you are talking about future-oriented steps, you are talking about joint, you are talking about sustainability, you are talking about consolidation, and, and, and. Nice words – listen to me once! – from the budget book of the University of Linz, that's all. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Amon: Mr Colleague, you would have had to make a urgent request, not a urgent question!]] Do you know what people are waiting for? – For concrete answers! They're waiting for the Wie. How is this tax reform implemented? How do you look at these savings? The danger in recent weeks was not this black volcanic cloud over Austria, because it did not harm anyone, but the danger is the diffuse black tax cloud over this Republic, which will ultimately harm the middle class, entrepreneurs and families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I may perhaps try it with very factual words, Mr. Finanzminister. I quote from today’s “standard”: “The population has been constantly precipitated that there will be no tax increases”, criticized recently“ who? – Her uncle “Niederösterreich’s head of state Erwin Pröll”. Whether you say “pre-accelerated” or“ lie ” or “untruth”, the core is that you have told people for years or for a long time, there is no tax increase. Now, however, there will be them, and we are criticizing that. And therefore, I think, the term “Pröllnocchio” is more than justified for you. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: There don't even clap...!]] – That's still coming, Minister of Finance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Look at your government statement! Look I would like to thank the rapporteurs on the economic packages. That's where you're talking about priority education, research, science. Look You're going to the research budget together with science! There's already little light, I'll give you that right. But in total there is also a minus of 1.3 percent. And here I am with Mr Kogler and I am with the Greens that we have to focus on education policy, science, research, innovation, but also – and this is all the more surprising to me at the ÖVP – on family policy. For family policy with the greatest minus of 4.2 percent is really a true witness to poverty for your kind of family policy – you clearly fail here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I've really got the suspicion that you want to hang out a green green coat as Minister of Finance, simply saying: Well, we'll do the green taxes! 100 million, I've read somewhere, you want to return. 100 million – this is a drop on the hot stone – for renewable energies. And the rest is easy to use to stop budget holes. Finally admit that! Once you are ready to come to the Committee on Budgets, I have never seen you in the Committee on Budgets. - He's not in the financial committee either. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the financial committee he is not often!]] So I don't know where you are. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's in Mauritius, in the USA...!]] But I ask you, Minister of Finance, to come to the committees! Talk to us! Talk to the opposition! Discuss our suggestions instead of always being absent! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because one thing is clear: The lawn mower policy à la Pröllnocchio – minus 3.5 percent, just over it – is not a future policy! And finally stop the ÖVP from accusing the opposition of having no concrete ideas and no concrete proposals! These proposals are indeed in the Committee on Budgets, which are in all the committees of the National Council, where, as you know, 700 applications are currently on ice, are on black and red ice and are not being dealt with. Last but not least, to the SPÖ: Mr Rudas, who is not present again, said that there are no proposals on the part of the opposition. I know a single proposal from the SPÖ, which is this envy tax, the introduction of the Reich tax: from an income of €300 000 plus 5 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] – Yes, do you know what this brings, Mr Gaßner? You know what that's doing? – This is a Micky Mouse receipt and is not at all suitable to renovate this budget, which is such a desolat. [[Abg. Riepl: Because it brings little, shouldn't you do it? That is an act of solidarity!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us not be afraid that we will not think about tax reforms. The BZÖ is against tax increases, which is quite clear. But in the tax structure itself, remodeling, we have to do that too. You know the keyword... [[Abg. Riepl: Why did you drive Carinthia into the pleite with your policy?]] – Would you like something new besides Carinthia? Please turn to colleagues in the last row from the FPK who represent Carinthia, but, please, not to me from the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Take note of this: The representatives of Carinthia are sitting there, not here. I conclude with a quote from Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer, who unfortunately is not here today, although it would be important. Mr Hundstorfer meant that this financial framework law was not a paper but a forecast paper. On the contrary, I would like to turn the whole thing: As long as the specific content is missing in this paper, as a financial framework law, it is only a paper and not even a forecast paper. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18873	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e18895	Madam President. Federal Minister! The final sentence of the previous speaker was a bit unappetising, but be it. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is what the Minister of Social Affairs has said!]] These are important issues, not only revenue but also expenditure, and ultimately social balance and social peace, which are very important issues to take seriously. I think that this saying has rarely been as true as it is now, that in the end the budget is a policy cast in figures. For the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course also about issues of justice and values in society, such as solidarity or, for example, the generation agreement. And it is clear that in times of crisis, in times of financial and economic crisis, a very special responsibility rests on the shoulders of the responsible political leaders. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the foundation in Styria?]] . I'll be right there, Mr Westenthaler. Therefore, first of all, a plan and second of all a result need to be achieved. I don't think you can argue about whether the procedure makes sense. We have a first reading tomorrow, today a urgent question – one can argue about whether one should double this discussion – then a parliamentary hearing, a second reading. All five parties agreed with the procedure. That is very reasonable, and I believe that the formal procedure is indisputable. However, ladies and gentlemen, the basic question for SPÖ is: Who caused the crisis? Was this the workers, the employees, the self-employed? No!, you'll probably call me now. On the contrary, they have long been those concerned: by unemployment, by short-time work, by increased pressure at work. [[Abg. Grosz: The commander of the Rudas! - Where's the boss, Mr. Colleague? Where's the woman Rudas?]] It is therefore necessary to consider the revenue: Is it now additional burden on those concerned, the workers, the workers who are already at risk of poverty? Is purchasing power taken away here in addition to suffocating and suffocating economics? Or do you want to tax the pendlers? Of course, this cannot be everything – and therefore there will be no increase in mass taxes, there will be no increase in VAT with the SPÖ and no increase in mineral oil tax. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: That was once a clear statement!]] So what is just and meaningful and where can we expect a steering effect? - Well, for example, in the case of speculation. [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] You have to sit there. First of all, it can be avoided or avoided at best and, of course, it can be used on the other hand. With regard to financial transaction taxes, at European level too – and I believe this should always be said now – a regulation should come first, whether at all, and when one says at European level: We will use the money ourselves!, of course, there needs to be an alternative, an equivalent with us in Austria, and then there will be an exchange rate tax-new. Or foundations: Of course, the Foundation's privileges – only 12.5 percent tax – need to be reduced, the tax rate must be increased. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes, that's in the Styria...!]] – Yes, I heard it, Mr Grosz. Having with your polemik They have long passed over in the Styria – that doesn't even interest someone in the Styria, let alone here in Parliament. [[Jö-Rufe at BZÖ.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the wealth and the privileged are also in sight. [[Abg. Grosz: Has this been approved by Mrs Rudas?]] The effective peak tax rate for us is not 50 percent, but – if you do the 13th and 14th. Content taken into account – 43.71 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are also “good” and “evil” foundations!]] Ms Schratzenstaller-Altzinger of the Wifo calculates that if you compare the old EU 25, the peak tax rate is between 40 and 59 percent. The Germans have 42 percent peak tax rate, 5.5 percent solidarity supplement and 3% wealth tax from certain sizes. Germany has been mentioned a number of times, so it is quite possible to focus on it in the future. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As far as expenditure is concerned, there must, of course, be priorities. We put them primarily on employment and jobs. But we also need to look very closely at agriculture, and also at economic promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: What about education and research?]] I am very glad that there is really this transparency discussion now. Negotiations must be conducted with the countries concerned. Whoever reads the editorial in tomorrow’s “Kurier” will see that there – I think very interestingly – debt will be understood as an opportunity as far as the administrative reform is concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Once a debt is a chance!]] So it's going to need a power act. It won't be easy. It's not a simple time. The opposition makes it easy, and the urgent request of the remaining stocks of the oranges: Well, whether that was useful, where we are talking about this issue again tomorrow, it is put to the fore.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19080	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19101	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Herzegovina! They have said that it is about social balance and social peace in the tax debate. I would like to underline this. I also believe that these are important and high goals. But the debate is also about fairness of performance, location security and ecologicalisation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Oh, now we look!]] That seems to me to be crucial. Mr. Herb, if one tends to look at foundations a little bit like this, and wants to convey the impression that this is almost inappropriate, while at the same time having a head of state in the Styria, whose personal model was such a foundation, then this does not go together. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are good and evil foundations!]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Oi, oi, oi!]] I've got to write that to you in the main book. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You can't do it that easy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here the Minister of Finance should look a little at the Foundation!]] On the urgent question raised by Mr Klubobmann Bucher at the beginning by Mr Finanzminister, with the words: 'No new taxes! That was my goal, and I am standing for that too.”, I do not know what to criticize, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Oi, oi, oi!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He said: New taxes – not with me!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The problem is that he can no longer remember what he said yesterday!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's how you shoot your knees!]] “This was my goal, and I am standing for it.” – I believe that it is very clear and clear that the main objective of the EIA is to reorganise the budget on the expenditure side, to reorganise the budget on the expenditure side. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you do if the crisis no longer exists? Then what are you talking about?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] That's right, we're in a common coalition. One can – and this trend is already a little to be felt in the opposition – pretend that there would be no global financial crisis with a related economic crisis, as if one could go over to the agenda and as if this form of budget consolidation would be one like any other, where one has to make sure every few years that the budget does not run out of the row with dynamic development. This is already a fundamental economic and financial crisis that we are dealing with here. That is why, I believe, it is also true that the Federal Government as a whole is very responsible in dealing with this crisis situation. It is also to be thanked for the fact that, at the beginning of this crisis, she was very constructively involved in dealing with it. It is no coincidence that all the parties here in the House have decided to stabilise the Austrian banking and economic system. That is what we have decided together. Of course, the opposition is also to be thanked for this. She was aware of her responsibility. But I would like to invite you to continue, ladies and gentlemen, because with this decision-making it is not done. They are already criticizing the Federal Financial Framework Act, which we will debate here tomorrow at a first reading. That's what you decided to do! This is the first essential step towards the reorganisation of the federal budget on the expenditure side, as there are limits defined. They're clearly regulated. You decided that this should happen. You have agreed, and I would like to thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a responsible opposition which contributes to such decisions, and it is a responsible Minister of Finance who makes guidelines here that are reasonable. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Do we not want to exaggerate it?]] Also here, ladies and gentlemen, because you are making international comparisons: I think you can at least compare yourself internationally, and the comparison makes us sure as well. Look The data is available at: Despite dramatic economic downturns, we are still at the forefront in the international comparison of what is happening in the employment rate. Due to the different developments in the different economic regions of the world, which are increasingly connected, there are assumptions that Asia probably comes out of the crisis earlier than Europe. That is why there are, of course, considerations about investing in exports to such countries and considering models for export promotion so that we can participate in earlier growth, because, of course, increased growth also results in lower fiscal measures. This, ladies and gentlemen, must be our goal in rehabilitating the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, we have – this has been addressed – something like an Austrian advantage because we have managed well in recent years. We should play this Austria advantage accordingly, with new ideas, with innovation, with investments in education, in science, but also in internal security, because this is also a site advantage. That's how we do budget policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19297	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19318	Minister! Mr President. High house! I've got to smile a little bit. Mr Amon, you are just pretending to be in the best order. Several colleagues have already said this: There's no longer any talk of savings. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] – Yes, it is a fact, Minister of Finance. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] A real wave of stress will – you can say, with Donnergrollen – roll on to the population. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You don't listen all the time!]] – No, we listen to this very well, and we have looked at it carefully. Finally, I would like to remind you again of the various points of speech that have passed through the throats of the most diverse members of the government in recent weeks and months that no new taxes are in sight. So I would like to remind you of this from the government groups and you, Mr. Finanzminister, also once again, for the x-th time today – perhaps the whole thing will happen sometime. You have to hold that. [[Abg. Amon: No new taxes or tax increases?]] “Pröllnocchio”, as it is brought here by the BZÖ, we can only agree to this. Of course, this has a entertainment value, but it brings these things to the point. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: He says it again!]] [[Abg. Petzner: This will be the word of the year!]] However, I do not want to let our Federal Chancellor – according to rumors he is also called “Baron Münchhausen” – entirely out of duty. Laura Rudas said today that the SPÖ has always meant that you can not only cut expenditure on the one hand, of course you have to do something on the other hand on the other. – Federal Chancellor Faymann also represented other positions there a few weeks ago. What atrocities in billions now definitely come to us? – I just want to bring a few examples: It will discuss the increase in VAT. Of course, everything is discussed. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: You!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Let's see!]] Let's take a look at that! It is discussed the increase in mineral oil tax. It's a burden on Pendler. We know exactly. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... ecologically!]] It is also discussed, the 13th. To remove family aid again. Skill Do you rule this out today? [[Abg. Weinzinger:... can't rule out anything!]] So I'm excited to see if it really is. Definitely, it should be so that one does not further relieve families, but is again burdened. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the government has a state of emergency to make this tax nightmare clear to mothers and family fathers, for whom the question of how they will master everyday life in the future, if they already have problems with it. The crisis has not yet stood out, as we know. 2010 will bring with it further difficult moments for the economy, for families and for workers. I want to get Peter Gnam out of the “Kronen Zeitung” a little in the race. He wrote in an editorial today – and he puts things to the fore –: SPÖ and ÖVP have long lost reality to the population, and they have been completely removed, in an empty space on the way. He is right, Mr Gnam, if he says so, because that is also what we find out by the Freedom Party and what the people see. I would like to quote Gnam again, who believes that our current Federal President Fischer has nothing to say on all these horror tax plans. – So much to the so-called national president and to the fact that he has proved as always and as often as so often the courage to speak clearly. – He does not, and that means to us that the importance of the population in the Federal President is much lower. The question that we have to ask ourselves is why the government is actually addressing this tax increase debate in such a way. We cannot explain this matter, because many experts – and we too – believe that there is a risk that the delicate economic plant – as you always put it – will be levelled back to the ground with tax increases, so to speak. That's what we're warning! We must not now put in place measures that make the slightly rising economy the same as the ground. The government has no visions of introducing and implementing reforms. In this context, I would like to point to efficiency gains and savings potential in the administration, so that we can finally face up to our inflated administration. There are possibilities to implement the proposals for a state and administrative reform prepared at the Austrian Convention. You should finally try to get the Landeskaiser in control, because we know there are double-tracks – which means double-rails, X-fold-rails! – in which there is certainly a potential for savings. We believe that the state can be slendered. We can streamline it, simplify administrative processes and, indeed, automate it in many areas. And what is particularly important to us, performance must finally be rewarded again. Therefore, it is the duty of the hour to relieve and not to burden the providers of our society. You should not have to fear them permanently – and I would of course also like to include the families – that they continue to be shameless by the Minister of Finance – you must make this accusation happen! - to be sacked. It can't be like that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say – there are a few visitors to the gallery –: [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Only two more!]] The Freedom Party will certainly continue to be the lawyer of the service providers and the families in our country. You can be sure of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19522	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19543	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Dear Seers! High house! I boldly agree with my colleague when he says that we cannot live on a permanent basis. That is exactly what we are doing when it comes to climate issues. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Yes, this volcano...!]] We have shared the climate crisis, and Austria is unfortunately not making any efforts to meet this climate crisis. Austria has a disastrous climate balance. [[Abg. Weinzinger: The CO2 emission...!]] It threatens us to pay a fine in billions, and I can only give it back: You're pretending that the climate crisis didn't exist! [[Abg. Großruck: We met her on the weekend!]] It is therefore time to act, guide and think of system changes at all and to address them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your proposals are far too few for us. We understand aspects of both sides, but we need holistic solutions. We have also presented a very concrete model, namely an ecologicalisation of the tax system. We need the greening of the tax system to reduce CO2 in order to protect the environment in order to create jobs, and also to relieve work and households. [[Abg. Weinzinger: With mineral oil taxes!]] The whole thing is also socially balanced. I think it is nice for the ÖVP to take out individual environmental aspects; I am pleased, of course, as an environmental spokesperson. It's a little late. [[Abg. Weinzinger: What do you think comes out of the volcanoes? CO2!]] You should have done this for a long time, at least before the Copenhagen climate conference. You didn't have any interest in taking that up. I see now a little bit the danger that the whole thing will come to an eco-devil, namely when it comes to stopping budget holes, but not really leading to a change in the system, and I find that dangerous. This great and important project of ecologizing the tax system, which is so important for climate protection and which we so urgently need, is not to be threatened. So I invite you to take care of steering effects in this area and to take a closer look at our concept again. As far as the SPÖ is concerned, I must say that I do not understand her at all as far as ecologisation is concerned. Ecology can be social, and I would actually see it as your task to bring social aspects into a common government proposal. You too can look at our concept, you will find a lot of social aspects that you can take up. I find the following irresponsible: In the past, the economy and the environment were played against each other. - That doesn't happen anymore. It has already prevailed that it may not be so stupid to consider both together and to use synergies. Getting is still too little, but it is often referred to as “the economy and the environment”. On the other hand, if you play out the environment and social things against each other, I think that this is irresponsible, because it is also a co-operation. Do you find it socially compatible if we invest billions of euros in motorway expansion and thus condemn people to have to drive by car and continue to pay expensive energy and fuel prices? Nor do I find it socially fair when, as my colleague Lichtenecker has already mentioned, other countries have to pay for our climate-damaging actions and suffer the consequences. Nor do I find it socially fair if future generations in Austria have to purchase environmental damage and have to face up to the climate crisis, for criminal payments, only because today is not being dealt with. Faith You don't – and don't picture it like that! – that it is not socially unfair now, because even now the Austrians are paying for the missing climate policy of the government! In the next few years, the Austrians will have to pay €500 million – that is already budgeted. The question of who pays for the crisis has been raised more often today. The same can be said about the climate crisis. Who pays for the climate crisis? I do not see it and do not think it socially fair when corporations make profits, the public is already suffering from environmental damage, and then still has to pay for climate sanctions. We therefore need an ecologisation of the tax system, a change in the system for more environmental protection, for CO2 reduction, for green jobs in renewable energy – and in our approach, which we all like to make available, all of this is socially just. In addition, I still believe that Austria needs an independent, independent and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19661	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19683	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What we experience economically, employment policy and financial policy since October 2008 – not only in Austria, but Europe-wide and worldwide – is more than serious. The fact is that the real economy has suffered massively and is still suffering. The fact is, however, that the employment situation is worrying – Europe-wide and worldwide, but of course also in Austria; to Austria I say even more. Why? Europe-wide – and I think you have to face that up to once – 24 million people are unemployed. That's 7 million more than two years ago, so when the crisis started. The average unemployment rate – and now I am coming to Austria where the comparison can make sure – is 9.6 percent of the EU-27, with countries such as Latvia or Spain where unemployment is 21.7% – Latvia – or 19 percent – Spain. These are situations that are extremely difficult, even for the households of the countries. The situation on the domestic labour market is such in the EU comparison that Austria – and this must also be seen – is undisputed with 5 per cent unemployment – is 5 per cent high, but it is also about comparison with the other countries – in second place within the European ranking. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Thanks to this excellent government?- Oh, my God!]] No, Mr Weinzinger, I have looked at this very carefully and can say: This government has managed to improve in this crisis, which we in Austria have felt massively, even in the ranking, with the economic packages and the labour market packages. Not even in good economic times have we had as good values in Austria as we now have them in the crisis, because we have actually got this situation under control. [[Abg. Weinzinger:... that we do not know how to proceed!]] – No, we already know how it goes on! I would also like to say this to you, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has to be addressed what this government has done to be able to put such figures on the table. And I would like to point out explicitly that short work was particularly helpful in the framework of labour market packages and economic packages, especially the labour market packages. A number of measures have been taken, including a regional employment offensive, apprenticeship promotion and re-entry aid. This has also contributed to ensuring jobs for 65 000 people, according to Wifo's calculations. And I mean, that's something that's very important and what you have to point out over and over again. The need for budget recovery is undisputed. And it is also undisputed that 40 percent of the refurbishment has to be done on the part of revenue and 60 percent on the part of expenditure. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This is not undisputed, Mrs. Colleague!]] Only: The way there, what is being done, is still disputed. However, I would like to say that it is not possible for any government to afford only to clean up the budget on the expenditure side, because that would be the death penalty for any government. However, it must be the case that budgetary reorganisation is socially balanced and that growth and employment do not suffer, otherwise the previous efforts would all have been in vain. If, from a social democratic point of view, one can talk about introducing a financial transaction tax or stock exchange tax as an alternative to a reform of the foundation tax and also a reform of group taxation, I must say: These are things you will have to negotiate. I would like to add the following to the flight of capital: I know companies who said: If anything is changed in Austria, we go abroad! They have actually gone abroad, but have come back to most of the time. So it's not like it's when any taxes and any tax changes come to the companies. Companies already appreciate the quality of the labour force in Austria. We can all be proud of these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19754	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19775	Mr President. High house! Mr Vice-Chancellor, Minister of Finance, I think it is already the summit of unfrozenness when you sit here and speak of a tactical lie when you remind Mr Kogler of the numerous opportunities where you... – I have heard it exactly, I have been sitting up there! ... when you reminded Mr Kogler of the numerous occasions where you agreed to raise any taxes. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who said that? Not me!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, that's not true!]] This is the summit of indifference, Minister of Finance! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] It's very long, the list of your tactical lies. The newspapers are missing out on the list from time to time. But if you look at the strategy report, you see: In fact, it is only one thing, namely, to draw the money out of the bag for the Austrians. Mr Finanzminister! I remind you of an American president, George Bush senior, who once said: “Read my lips: no new taxes!” – and then he increased the taxes anyway. But the voters noticed it, and that was the only president who has not been re-elected. If you look at this strategy report a little bit – keyword: ‘No new taxes’, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, it is then noted that this strategy report is not very clearly presented. On page 67 it is called lapidar – I quote –: ‘In order to achieve the consolidation objective, revenue increases are planned. They are expected to reach 2.8 billion by 2014. Increase €. The precise design of these revenue is the subject of negotiations over the next few months." In addition, there is still a duty for the countries. Then we talk about tax increases in 2014 of €4 billion per year. And you need an 86-page report. And then write in a short paragraph what you really intend to do. And the only strategy that can be seen here is to increase taxes on a massive scale. Do you know what was important, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? – to draw up an 86-page report on where there is savings potential and where you can really benefit from it. That's what you should do to your officials! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what it looks like when you deal with administrative simplification, you see it in a draft regulation from your ministry. This is about VAT pre-registrations. So far, only companies that made more than €100 000 in sales in the year before have had to deliver them. Now you want this to also make companies from €30 000 in sales. Do you know what that means? Do you know what that costs? – This means that in the future, 30 000 companies will have to give up the UVA, which they have not yet delivered. There are some 24,500 companies that have previously volunteered irregularly. On average, there are 30 000 companies that have not yet delivered them and which will use an external service provider in the future. Do you know what that costs? - That costs millions. And that comes out when You are dealing with administrative simplification! I can only say: The title of the urgent request is really wrong, he would have to say: They have long left Austria in the rain.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19857	Mr Amon referred to an actual correction. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19882	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has said here that the Minister of Finance has insisted on the chairman of Mr Kogler that he does not resort to new taxes, that this is a tactical lie. [[Call the FPÖ:Has he too!]] I'll turn that back! I heard this from the front of the square. The Federal Minister has intervened: That was tactical! – The lie was not the talk.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19916	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e19938	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Because my colleague Haider is just... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mr Amon, you have only corrected the matter with the call. – Mr Haider spoke earlier on about the VAT advance applications. To do this, I have to make the order a supplement: All were, of course, obliged to prepare the VAT pre-registration. Only: Earlier than it was sent by mail, we provided relief for the little ones and said they don't have to send it away, it's enough to make the deposit. In the meantime, the modernisation of the eGovernment has allowed financial online to make this essentially vulnerable to all without additional costs. Now I admit that there will be entrepreneurs who, because they just had to put it on the files, did not do it until the end of the year, so that they will have it afterwards. But at some point they also had to do it. Well, this allegation is really a little exaggerating. But back to our main topic here! – If I see Mr Amon like this, I must congratulate him too: I would not have thought that an ÖVP member dared to put on the problems of a head of state with his foundation here, namely the real problems. In fact, there are 800 million taxpayers in the direction of Ireland. [[Abg. Amon: What happened to Voves?]] But I ask you, this problem of the Lower Austrian Land Foundation with the means of housing development is not the subject of today's debate. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amon.]] We have other problems here, namely the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the budget: No one, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, has seriously assumed that a budget recovery of 0.75% of gross domestic product can only take place on the expenditure side from 2011 onwards. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: We didn't believe this!]] That's why it's gonna need a balance. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Completely right!]] And I believe that the presentation given by the Federal Government today and tomorrow with the law shows one thing: We are trying to achieve a maximum of possible means with the 60 per cent on the expenditure side and reach 40 per cent on the revenue side, to achieve a very good balance, which can be used to consolidate the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: You can discuss this well!]] Now I come to the expenditure, because we have talked a lot about taxes before, and there is the question: What edition is reasonable? There was little to be learned from the opposition in this regard. My colleague Rudas tried to get a little approval, but it was difficult to get proposals. The FPÖ has been able to find out what its proposals would be. A reduction in pensions was a proposal. Thus it was proposed that all those who have a higher pension than the ASVG insured should also rely on the ASVG level. That's where you only have to decide when you want to do that. Do you want to shorten pensions that exist today? Then you'll have an effect right now. But if you want to shorten pensions that will arise in the future, then we will – I'm sorry! – by the year 2013 nothing will get from this area. The second proposal put forward here by Mr Grastaur was, if I remember correctly, to increase the retirement age to 67 years. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] How many years? At 68? No, 70? How many years does he want to raise it? At 67, he said. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: 67!]] He wants to raise it to 67. We can read it in the minutes. [[New call to the FPÖ.]] Did he say 67? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] At 83, says Mr Stadler. Mr Grauburd, what do you think will happen if we change the retirement age from today to tomorrow for tens of thousands of people – and for people who have taken up retirement for the next five years? We made a joint request here in 2008 that the hackler scheme should apply to those who already have 45 years of insurance. The government is now trying to find a successor. What do you think, Mr President, when your proposal to increase the retirement age to 67 years will become fiscally effective? In 2023. We can't do this now. And I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: To put the costs of the crisis to the pensioners, you will not be able to do so as long as we as social democracy have any opportunity to prevent that. These are the last ones that have caused the crisis and the last ones to be asked for cash. This also applies to workers. That was said at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I now come to the budget recovery on the revenue side. . In the area of revenue, we already have an agreement within the Federal Government to reach half a billion euros in the area of banks. And quite honestly: Our banking institutions deserved very well. I think we agree on that. The profit in the last year before the crisis was about five times as high as in 1995. Five times as high! Now, ladies and gentlemen, guess how the corporate tax has developed in Austria! – It has fallen to a third of the value of then. Quite honestly, there is room for 500 million, and that is why the action the Federal Government is setting is the right one. First contribution to crisis management: half a billion with a special bank levy. The foundations have also been addressed today. We heard yesterday a very interesting presentation of the experts. One thing was clear in this context: There are a number of special provisions that are no longer necessary as such. We have, in particular, indicated a tax exemption in the case of real estate sales. There was the maximum defense that someone said: Well, if it was tax-free with the founder, why should the foundation pay tax? But in the constructions that are massive, that capital companies set up foundations to sell tax-free land, we can improve in peace. There is a normal tax duty an important contribution. At this point I would like to end my remarks and congratulate the Federal Government on the well-balanced budget framework programme. We'll have the opportunity to look at this in detail tomorrow. If we do this properly over the next four years, we will be better off with unemployment and growth than the other European countries. I think the Faymann government has presented something good here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20072	A real correction is now made by Mr Grastaur. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20097	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter has just said that I would have said in my speech that I would be in favour of raising the pension limit from 65 to 67 years. – That’s wrong, that’s not true! I said that it should be achieved to bring the retirement age of the pension, now 58, to 65. And that's a call that's definitely all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr Matznetter also claimed that I would have called for a reduction in pensions. This is incorrect, I did not claim at all, but I demanded that wherever the ASVG conditions do not yet move, at least in Vienna, in Salzburg, in Carinthia and at the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the pensions be re-initiated at ASVG height. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20137	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20159	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's quite interesting what you hear when you listen carefully and when you think about it a little bit: Save yes, but not with me, absolutely always with the others! It was Mr Krainer who compared the costs of the councils here and pointed out how many councils we have outside the federal states – hundreds, thousands. Yes, Mr President, that is true. But I am convinced that we do not find any councillors throughout Vienna who is working for the money, which many councillors work in the countries outside, namely, at a zero rate, for joy at work. I think you should be careful about what you're comparing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if I look at the efficiency in the small communities, I think that no small community needs to shyen the comparison with Vienna or with another large community. It is also interesting that Mr Molterer is speaking about the fact that there is a potential for savings in municipalities, countries and the federal government, but that it has to be sought. Yes, that's true, but in order to really determine where there is savings potential in the municipalities, it takes comparative figures. That is why I call once again for the Community's final audit of the Court of Auditors to be put in place in order to be able to really compare the communities in the individual federal states, to have figures and to know where there is potential. I believe that in this respect, a thought would be needed in the ranks of the EIAs so that they finally agreed to allow controls to be carried out in order to be able to know where potential is actually present. We could, I believe, at last demand from Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance: Reliability. I have already told you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: We have long heard from you that there will be no new taxes. Then we have heard from you that 1.8 billion should be brought in, and now you are at 4 billion, without any real reforms being made. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: This is another year!]] I believe that we should use at least as much power and energy as we need to implement reforms and save in our own ranks as we need to find new taxes. The first thing you said yesterday, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, was: It's 4.1 billion, but if the countries save, it'll get less. In Carinthia, Mr Vice-Chancellor, budget and debt are the same. In the federal government we have three times as many debts as there is budget. That is why I would not be complaining about a federal country, but look in my own area where we can carry out reforms. This is a good example, and it really has the right to demand reforms from the federal states as well. Again: First look at yourself, where you can do something and then take it up! Getting started in your own areas! Not if the SPÖ brings forward a proposal for savings in the school sector, go right away and say: No, we can't save anything, we can't! – With walls and blocking, we will not be able to get the budget under control. One thing to conclude: Mr Krainer, if you say that there are proposals from both government parties, as the new taxes are to look forward to, then I can tell you: That is true, but from experience we know that not the proposals of the SPÖ, but those of the ÖVP will come to the train.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20201	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20223	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor, personally I wish our group to wish you the very best for the recovery of your foot. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That was the only kindness!]] But if, after this debate, I think of the recovery of state finances, I am not as sure as to whether it will take place. But I do not want to set in motion the simple mechanism and say: You're to blame! In addition to the question whether the tactical, a tactical lie, or whatever, was said a few weeks ago that no new taxes were introduced, although at the time – it was already mentioned several times – it was clear that it would not go without additional tax revenue, I was irritated by the debate – it is partly yours, but not just yours, to be honest – the fact that, although it is now being taken around, whether this was a lie or not, that little concrete and useful proposals have been made or there is little willingness to hold the debate differently than in the past. I would just like to point out that the BZÖ has begun the debate by referring to Switzerland and the low tax or tax rate in Switzerland. That may be or is true, it is lower, but a low or high tax and tax rate is not at all evidence of anything. The countries with the highest rates of tax, namely the Scandinavian countries, remain relatively good in the crisis. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] They partly have 50 percent tax and tax ratio. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Meaningful charges!]] The fact that Switzerland has a low tax and tax rate is historically justified, but also by the fact that, in addition to the federal government, the cantons and the municipalities also collect very different taxes which cannot be included in this tax rate which is declared for the federal government because they are very different. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Slovakia also has a low!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's reasonable anyway!]] Because in Switzerland, in the social security sector, where we have a compulsory insurance system, there is partly a system of insurance obligations with private insurance, this is also not fully included in the tax and tax rate. If there is an internal debate in Switzerland, Mr Bartenstein – and I always read the “New Zurich newspaper” – there is a broad debate in which Swiss people realize that their tax and tax ratio, if compared with other countries such as Austria, would be close to the same level if they were all taken into account. [[Abg. Scheibner: Nice!]] It still doesn't say anything. But what I think – and this is not just the address of the BZÖ – we could take with us from Switzerland in this debate, is that, if we have a task ahead of us, the Swiss can, if they have a job, reorganisation of invalidity insurance or old-age and survivors' care to mention two examples from the social field – which is discussed in all seriosity for two years. And what is then decided, whether only parliamentary or with a referendum, usually holds and is well done. This is the difference between the way we have the debate here in Austria – I am afraid, even in this budgetary reorganisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] It is a debate of concealment, of a political culture, in which one can only face each other the dirt of the skull and in which measures in the final effect are taken surprisingly and invadingly. We have had that several times in this Republic. I just remember the beginning of Black-Blue: Ambulance fees, accident pension tax et cetera. At that time, measures had been taken which had to be taken back in the shortest time. I would be interested – the answer will no longer come from you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: What is planned in the social field? I believe that we should hold this debate with all seriousness, not with any creeds or moral confessions, but I fear that the Republic or the political parties are not mature for this. What I blame you for – and I have already said that – is that you have introduced this misguided debate on the transparency account before we have started to talk about budget reorganisation. That was clearly a envy debate. That's what we need as the last one.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20346	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20367	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I and my group do not accuse you of a politician making the announcement: I have the political opinion that there are no tax increases with me! – But if you realize that this announcement is not to be maintained, you also have to have the size and say: I can't keep it, I would have liked it different! – All of us would have liked it different, we would still have liked it different. [[Abg. Amon: He said that!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I never said that!]] - No, no, you're trying to flunk around: I never said that! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, that's not true!]] If you can say: I can't stand this, but I'm trying to use all the possibilities on the expenditure side – no, because it really starts to use – even against resistance in my own party!,... – I look at that. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Abg. Head: Read his lips!]] [[Abg. Head: Of course!]] Of course, Mr Kopf says. [[Abg. Head: Of course!]] Your own head of state Sausgruber gives you a ban on entry if that is made what would be necessary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: Then I’ll stay there!]] I look at how “natural” that will then be. I'll bring you a few suggestions for savings. You know, Mr Oellinger, in Switzerland it is not just that it has a low tax rate and other political structures. She also has a different state quota. [[Abg. Head: Yes!]] We have inherited from the Danube monarchy a state quota from a 57-million state, and the Republic has not only done so to this day, but has expanded it. However, this has to do with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The state has been further bloated. Almost every citizen has been given his own caretaker. That means it won't be any different than to go down with the state ratio. [[Abg. Riepl: Now exaggerate again!]] It is precisely with this that you get deep into the ÖVP, because this is not possible without attacking the civil service law. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yeah, that's what I'm looking at! – No more acoustic signal. I think I'm just for the record: No more acoustic signal from Klubobmann's head, but only interpretation signals. Why? – Because the President is sitting up there, he says: Yes, I look at what my party is doing! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Those down there can discuss what they want, with my union never! I'm going to crash a chancellor and a vice chancellor and I'll still be there! - That's the way it is. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] This is also the mentality of the civil service, ladies and gentlemen: Governments come and go, we remain pragmatic officials! We stay there, especially where we want to stay. We do not let ourselves be relocated – resistance protection, Pragmatization, privilege! Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that a government can reduce any state rate without truly touching this sector? – Not at all. Everything macular, everything hypocritical explanation, if you don't really do that! The population will increasingly have less understanding of a group that has the privilege of having a secure job, a secure income and a secure pension scheme, but it does not show any willingness to participate in the reform of this state and in the reduction of the quota – no apparent willingness! It won't be in the long run. I will give you a few examples of how to reduce the quota. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the teacher problem was the fall of sin. There you should have put off your party political glasses and not say: It only hits a red minister, so let's slip her out and make Fritz Neugebauer and his teachers! – But of course it was! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The real chancellor!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] You've let Mrs. Schmied slip out. That's what your own chancellor, your head of government, told you. The Minister told you that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The real chancellor is sitting up there!]] The real chancellor on civil servants is sitting up there. You can save any Secretary of State. Fritz Neugebauer controls the system perfectly and his union officials from the official union. If you fail to do so, you will never realize that even an authority such as the Financial Procuratorship, as Mr Fichtenbauer has suggested, will be dissolved. There, trained judges, trained prosecutors needed in the judiciary, sit there and play lawyers' activities that could be at least as good as any law firm that would be cheaper under the rule. No, we afford a financial procuratorship, because the emperor has already had it, so let's continue. Next example: Eich and surveying could be outsourced to private service providers. Control, trade inspectors, labour inspectors, that could just as well make a borrowed organ, ladies and gentlemen, cheaper. The car test is going on, too. In the case of a car, it seems that not as much safety is necessary as in the area examined by the labour inspector. One could harmonise the social systems. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No, but I want to compare the control activity. When it comes to the car, why is it not the area to be examined by the trade inspector? If it's not for squirrel and surveying, why is it the car? - You can outsource that. There are civil service providers who can do just as well, and it is cheaper for citizens, ladies and gentlemen! That's the effect behind it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I do not want to know what it would cost to additional officials if the entire car test were located in the state. Thank God you have taken a different path there. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr President, I am just about to finish, just one last point: deep into the EIA, the question of the rehabilitation of municipal finances. They will still have to think about the model of the Ro­ten from 1920, the regional communities. The empty offices of the municipalities force you not only to form administrative communities, but also to think about the local community.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20648	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[17:51:19]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20669	We shall now proceed to a brief debate. It concerns the request of Mr Öllinger, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the application 11/A concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, a period of time until 12. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes, members of the Federal Government and State Secretary, no longer than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can now present a positive effect of this deadline debate: As it looks, some of what we wanted to achieve with this deadline request will actually take place. It will be, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on 12 November. It is likely that a meeting of the Committee will be held in May. This would then be the first meeting of the Committee for half a year. There has been no meeting of the Committee for half a year, not because we have nothing to discuss in this Republic or in the Committee, but because there are no legislative proposals for it. We would have to discuss enough, ladies and gentlemen, because, among other things, a debate on the increase in unemployment and emergency aid has been announced for two years. The various institutions of the Republic, from parties to trade unions, across the political spectrum, are calling for an increase in unemployment benefit, only: She's not coming! I myself took part in a debate in Upper Austria, in the framework of which representatives also of the BZÖ, which surprised me, voted for an increase. Representatives of the FPÖ – of which I know it – have voted there for an increase. But also a representative of the ÖVP, who has always spoken against it so far, was in favour of increasing unemployment benefit. Everyone's for it, just: In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should also discuss and take decisions which, for example, also need to clarify why something is going or is not going on at this or that level, but also why some in this House believe that this should not be done, is not discussed. For half a year, no meeting, no discussion of applications. There are numerous applications, not only by the Greens but of course also by the other opposition parties. I believe that we will be holding back 90 requests which are not completed, which are not even discussed in the Committee on Parking and which will be postponed when they are briefly discussed. This is a state that is unbearable. Mr Brosz has now said in the Presidency: If this condition persists, then we will make requests for deadlines, but not the soft one – that we will discuss a set of deadlines just as we do – but with a naturist vote. I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties: That's not how it is! I even think that the Austrian Parliament is on a wooden road when it believes that this meeting culture and this culture of mutual relations – and I do not mean just the government parties – have a future from the very day before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have to tell you that these times should actually be over. I know how much labour each of us has – in different ways – but in fact we should have a meeting of the Committee every week or at least every other week, compared with foreign parliaments, because that takes time. I could now also list the parliaments in which we actually meet every week or every other week in a committee. And if there is no presentation of the government you can talk about, there will simply be a discussion with each other. It would not be the worst and perhaps also very good if we took time to discuss the labour market, for example, the shortcomings that exist in the area of health, of which everyone knows and who in no way can actually be dealt with in detail in a debate on the health system; for example, about social inequalities in this Republic, where they are taking place, what is being done against what we are doing in order to end these conditions; for example, about the fact that, especially in the crisis, more and more precarious working conditions are being created, although consensus exists between the parties that we should actually distance ourselves from them – I look at you, Mr Bartenstein, because you have certainly, if not our conviction, after you were one of the worst advocates of precarious working conditions, a few measures to limit this a bit, at least your party. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I think it would be good for us at a meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to exchange what your position is about increasing unemployment benefit and what is mine. We do not necessarily have to come to the same denominator, but it would be an exciting debate. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What does your position look like?]] My position on the increase in unemployment benefits is quite clear, and I share the view of most economic researchers, who believe that the extremely low unemployment rate in Austria should be increased for economic reasons – also for economic reasons! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This tenor is clear across the ranks of economic researchers, and this position is also represented in the OECD. That means that we greens are not lying lonely on the island of the phan keys somewhere, but we are moving in consensus with that. One thing is clear, Mr Bartenstein: Whoever, for example, is a long-term unemployed person in this Republic and has been receiving unemployment benefit since 2002 – that is, you know, tens of thousands – and has started with 500 €, now only 500 € and no more cents. And I don't need to tell you – we've had this debate sometime in a little while – that you can't live from 500 €, from 600 €, from 700 €. I do not need to tell you that, of course, an increase in the rate of inflation must also apply to unemployed people; this increase has also occurred in recent years for others, pensioners and other professional groups. Only a “vocational group” – between quotation marks of course – a group was completely excluded: the unemployed. There was nothing for them: no heating subsidies, as they were distributed to pensioners, no charge for inflation, nothing at all. Explain to me what sense it should have that a person who received some €600 unemployment benefit in 2002 will receive only €600 in 2010 and will not even receive an inflation tax! Tell me a sense of why unemployment benefit in Austria is so low compared to other countries! – There is no one! There is no reason, because if we are already there: Previously, we have already talked about Switzerland, even in Switzerland a great deal has been discussed about it, and the Swiss or the “New Zurich Newspaper” I like to quote comes to the conclusion after an expert hearing – and that was researched in Switzerland –: A high unemployment allowance is not an obstacle to taking up work! So what conservativeally is often claimed – unemployment money must be as low as possible, otherwise people are not motivated to work – is not true. That's not true, practice disproves it! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you should be able to agree not only with this deadline, but also with other strings in the Committee, not only there but also in Parliament as a whole, which enable us to work, including a common discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20763	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20785	Mr President. Mr. Oillinger, you said: ==References== We have a Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We will see how we shape the agenda. At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to say: I accept and also my group accepts 100 percent of the question and also the problem of the need, in particular for those who have little – and unfortunately the unemployed – to take appropriate precautions and to seek reasonable solutions in our country. I disagree only in one: It's not like nothing happened. Some things have happened, and I'm going to say a few things in the five minutes that I'm staying. [[Abg. Oillinger: You can easily put it all under!]] I think we agree on one thing: The best would be work and employment, because it definitely avoids all poverty and any risk of poverty. [[Abg. May. Honey: Unfortunately not either!]] To avoid unemployment, last year we tried very hard by short-term work. We have discussed the subject of short work several times, we have made income security and, of course, employment security with the instrument of short work. I am just saying: two labour market packages! So it's not like nothing happened. I am not glad to say now that in March we had more employees in our country than in March of last year. Again: I'm not glad, it's not a cause for great joy. But it is also an aspect to be mentioned in a discussion on unemployment, and that is why I am doing so. Now a few facts and a few figures on the net replacement rate: What happened? – For example, the qualification bonus has been increased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Yeah, it's never enough; I know it's never enough for the greens! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But 100 € for short qualifications, 200 € for longer, which is converted to the net replacement rate of those who use that, namely qualification, – converted to the net replacement rate, and that is actually the point in the application –: Those who have a price of three to six months have an average net replacement rate of 70 percent, and those who make a price longer than six months have an average net replacement rate of 77 percent. Now you can say: All right, these are a few. But by March 2010, a total of 31,000 people have benefited from it. So don't tell me nothing happened! We're doing a lot of things because we actually want the same thing. In any case, I believe that the intentions of the Green Group and the Socialist Group, at least for the reason, are striving for the same thing, namely to ensure that people are able to live what they get – through their own work or through state support. We want unemployment, if we cannot prevent it, to be accompanied by existential support. There are the supplements, there are the family supplements. The average net replacement rate is currently 61 percent. So if you look at what people really get, you see, it's 61 percent. So it's a little more than what's fixed in the law as a basic net replacement rate. Three quarters of all unemployed persons have a net replacement rate of over 60 percent. So the vast majority of those affected have over 60 percent. I think that should be mentioned a little bit in this discussion, because it is figures and facts that... [[Abg. Oils: Not even exciting, are they?]] Exciting, exciting – of course, more would always be good! But it's also about knowing the facts and figures. If we have now worked on the need-oriented minimum security, and if, for example, Mr. Oellinger, I can speak to you again – the additional contribution will also apply to emergency aid in the future, then 75 percent of emergency aid recipients – if we have the need-oriented minimum guarantee, 75 percent of emergency aid providers – will receive 100 € more per month. So that's not something you can say it's nothing. I think that is also a social-democratic manuscript in social policy, and this serves to combat poverty. To remember: Labour market reform package 2. The annual contribution basis for the calculation of unemployment benefit and emergency aid has been increased. This has been an increase of 3 percent of unemployment benefit and happened last year. So here are some facts and figures. The international comparison – because this is also mentioned in the application – is a bit difficult. In part gross is compared to net, in part supplements are included and surcharges are not included, deductions and the like more. Only two countries in the European Union, as you know, have a net replacement rate, everyone else has a different situation. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] In other words, we will not agree to the deadline proposal because of these arguments. But I am already looking forward to the discussion on this issue in the Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20880	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20902	Mr President. High house! I believe that in times like this and on the eve of a debate on the Financial Framework Act, we do not miss out on all the projects that cost money, at least at the beginning, to ask the question: What's that cost, and who's to pay for it? [[Abg. Oils: What's the use of it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal by Oillinger and the Greens to increase the net replacement rate overall to at least 60 percent – Mr Riepl has already said that in many cases this is the case – would mean an additional effort of around € 200 million per year. €200 million per year for unemployment insurance, which will not be about balanced, but in 2010 estimated not less than €1.6 billion will write to deficit! That is, ladies and gentlemen, you can already say with fug and right: Even if we want it, we could conclude that we cannot afford it. But now on the point of whether we want to afford it: The labour market experts say, "Inactivity traps." Mr Riepl! Trade unionists are also people who know that there is a need for a sufficient difference between unemployment benefit, a minimum guarantee that someone gets, and an active relationship that someone else receives or he or she himself when he or she enters the acquisition process again. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this distance is, of course, already essential! It is not a question of limiting, Mr Oellinger, the way in which you have formulated it, but the proper level of sight is necessary. [[Abg. May. Treasure: Can you live from 500 or 600 €?]] Yes, Mrs. Honey, you too will see it again in practice: The right eye is necessary here, and the balance is to be kept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me tell you here that the maximum unemployment benefit in Austria is at least €1 341 net. Well, I know someone must've earned it very well first, but it's quite possible. Unlike in other countries, unlike in Germany, for example, a unemployed person can earn about €350 for this up to the low-quality limit. From this title alone, you already have the subject that we must also have the courage to say: A certain difference is needed between unemployment benefit or emergency aid and what he or she can actively earn in working life. Mr Riepl referred to: We live in the phase of introduction and the introduction of minimum security. In principle, I am in favour of being one of the political operators of this issue together with Buchinger, but it is about how this is done in practice, whether the incentives and sometimes the pressure to integrate or reintegrate workers more quickly than before. I brought you an example to think about. Name: Due to the rules currently in force, two people who have to live by the minimum guarantee – not just one – receive 75 percent of the €750 each, thus a total of €1 500. If these parents also have two children, 18 percent will be added twice. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, on this basis, a couple with two children under the title Minimum insurance can obtain about €1500 net per month. 1 500 € net! Now compare this with parents, where, let's say the father has an average paid industrial job and the mother – because two children – is perhaps only part-time employed at BILLA or elsewhere. I'm not so sure they're going to be so much more than €1 500 net! [[Abg. Riepl: We need higher minimum wages!]] That is why – as difficult as it may be in the political debate at times –: The case of inactivity must always be a warning to us! We need a sufficient distance between what a person who is in employment, both in the unemployment insurance sector and in the issue of minimum security, and what someone who does not receive unemployment benefit or minimum security - for which reasons always is - from the title.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20974	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e20995	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein, you have said that if unemployment insurance is increased, you have to ask whether it is even manageable. In response to Mr Riepl's reply that many of the unemployed already receive over 61 percent, Mr Oellinger said: “What is it useful?” – I would like to say: Who's the use of it? It should benefit the unemployed, and we should be here as a people's representative. I would like to say that, in principle, we agree with both the proposal for a deadline and the Greens' request, because we are firmly convinced that this will encourage government and force the government to abandon its snail pace and finally work. Then: If you look at this application, which is aimed at amending the 1977 unemployment insurance law, you can see that this application was already made on 28 March. ==References====External links== Right now, it's a year and a half later. At that time it was still about the right design and maintenance of the standard of living of the unemployed. Today, in the time of the crisis – and I say we are not after, not before and not in the middle, but we are in the middle of the crisis – it is really about the To secure and at all make possible the lives of many unemployed people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you always claim you are representatives of the people. For me, as a representative of the people, you have a similarity with a lemon finger: He doesn't fold lemons either! Otherwise, it cannot be possible for such applications to be lowered for a year and a half and another 700 applications to fall below and rot. [[Abg. Steibl: But that was a bad comparison!]] This is really about the lives of nearly 360 000 unemployed, ladies and gentlemen, with an increasing trend! It is simply unheard of that our Austrian unemployment insurance law has practically the lowest net replacement rate in the European area. What does that mean? – The unemployed cannot receive existential benefits from unemployment insurance, and this clearly leads to the risk of poverty. There are studies of the Chamber of Labour that people with particularly low incomes are actually taken from two sides into a poverty tongue: on the one hand, through inflation. The extremely high increases in food prices or prices for essential goods, as well as for heating and housing, is a major problem. The second problem is that they actually suffer real human income losses. According to Statistics Austria, nearly 12.6% of the population are vulnerable to poverty. That is, 1 million people in Austria are at risk of poverty. There's something to happen. You can't just say: I can't, it's too high! and so on. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that not only has inflation now, in this state of crisis, threatened people with particularly low incomes and their standard of living very much, but also – and this is the worst of them – already exceeded the middle class, as the budget expenditure of these people is spent about half on housing, energy and food. The highest poverty risk rate, however, shows the unemployed: 33 percent of all unemployed people are at risk of poverty. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment insurance, unemployment law and law, which does not prevent poverty, must be changed very urgently!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21035	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21056	Mr President. “Inactivity case” the former Federal Minister Bartenstein said several times and then also mentioned the numerical examples. You know, I appreciate your colleague Haubner as a sports speaker and a number of debates. What I did not appreciate at all is the comparison of figures that he, I think, made in the press a few months ago, which should prove exactly this so-called inactivity case once again, and then it has been found that those who are not working or unemployed get much more than those who are in employment. There's a small error in the calculation. Among other things, the annual heating cost allowance has been calculated every month, so there are people who receive 1 000 € of heating per year according to this calculation, in winter, in summer, totally no matter. If you make such unsavory calculations, you sometimes believe your own propaganda. This should be taken into account in politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I really want all the representatives of the government parties to follow me at least because otherwise we will have to feel the consequences in the House relatively soon. We have been having debates in the Presidential Committee for months on committees that do not take place. We have debates on requests, especially in the Committee on Budgets, but also in many other committees, which simply do not come on the agenda. We made a statement a few weeks ago, and there were more than 700 requests from the opposition parties, which are in the committees which have not been dealt with. The many requests, among them by Mr Hofer, who again discussed this several times and last week: When is there a Committee?, it is strange to have an activity today, so that a committee is now called up. But so far, it's always said: If we wait, we know what the practice of the House is, there is a committee if there is a government proposal, then we can discuss it! And if there is no government proposal, there are some weeks, months, half-years, no committees. I think that the opposition parties have done so far the “low level” – let us say so – and have not made it really serious. By the way, the argument was always with the reluctances – Mr Cap, now it would be good if we at least clarify what we are talking about. [[After a hand movement of the speaker, a microphone head falls on the speaker's mouth.]] – Hoppla, now it has fallen down immediately, the micro, that has already startled itself from the activities of the next months. [[Abg. Riepl: You broke it!]] [[Further calls.]] We have talked about how we want our proposals to be dealt with at last. There is no claim that something will be implemented. We will not agree with all the applications of the FPÖ and the BZÖ, nor will we. But we want these applications to be dealt with! If this goes on, then you force us – and I say this deliberately to the members who did not know it in the presidential – that we now also exercise our rights. That is to say, we simply have to apply for permanent deadlines. They can prevent this in the committees. What you cannot prevent is that we are making ongoing requests for deadlines here in plenary. Now you can say: Okay, anyway, there is only one fixed-term debate a day, then the opposition parties are making a few hundred requests for notice. If you read quickly as President, you can do it quickly. Let's calculate this by: Two or three deadlines per minute may be possible to vote, with a few hundred we are going through in two hours, because the threat potential may still be low. If you want it escalated, we can also go here and say: However, we are asking for the vote to take place in the name of the vote. [[Call the SPÖ: Very good!]] Yes, “very good, ” exactly. “Very good” might be a hint if one finally starts to take the opposition proposals seriously. I say here that we have not consciously begun to do so today. We now have a symbolic deadline proposal, and we say that today we are voting in favour of it. I'm warning you now, and, so to speak, I'm looking for you at the same time... [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... this is all a Rules of Procedure!]] That's right, that's a Rules of Procedure, you know that too. This is exactly like the Rules of Procedure which you constantly adopt in the committees and say: Yes, the Rules of Procedure, it says adjournment; if the government postpones, it can be postponed. It seems to be the sense of the delay that it is disposed of so far that it is not coordinated. That's your interpretation of delays. In itself, delays would be due to the fact that, with the applicant's consent, one might also say: Okay, there's still some information, then you can deal with it like that, and maybe it needs more! Then you can agree or reject. That's right! But if we believe that you could just as well reject what is yours, then we can say in the future: You can delay, and as a result of the next plenary session, you have a name-named vote on this request! Then you can calculate how many names you spend per hour, and calculate how big the lamentation will be when the sessions are extended by several hours. It is here today a request: Let's go with it differently! Let us try to plan the committees in such a way that the opposition applications can be processed! Reject applications if they do not fit you! But take the opposition requests seriously! Ud will not complain at the next meetings if it is here – now I would almost have said – that is not the right of the opposition to defend itself against your adjournments, which are inconvenient!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21134	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21156	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can recover some of this deadline proposal, which concerns the increase in the net replacement rate. Mr Oellinger, we have often discussed what this is like. To increase unemployment benefits naturally strengthens purchasing power and favours domestic demand. No question! Of course, I can also get rid of the position, which was always my position, which I also represent here, that there must be a certain difference, a certain difference between income from work and unemployment support. I always say that 30 percent difference must be between minimum wage in full employment and unemployment benefit. The former Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein has said here how high the highest unemployment benefit is. The sum he mentioned must earn about €1 300 net, for which a €3 000 must be earned. That's not much in the ratio. It's net just half once. If you talk about the net replacement rate now, Mr Riepl, whether that is 61 percent or we are still 55 percent, or just as it is, you need a certain degree of transparency, an overview of all subsidies paid by countries, communities and the federal government. If I don't have that, I don't even see it. In principle, everyone needs to make a request everywhere to get support in any area at all. That's just clear. All of them have to do with this. Grants will be centrally covered to know about the actual net replacement rate. However, I am also in favour of any promotion being reflected in the fact that this is also the case – whether it concerns a farmer or anyone else. [[Abg. Grill: That's all public!]] These EU funding is actually available on the Internet. That's okay. Under the same principle, this should also apply to any support granted to the economy. Just like that! Then you see exactly what the net replacement rate is. A certain difference to the minimum wage must be given. Work and employment are the best means of combating poverty. That's always the best, but there's probably an opinion in this house. I'm just saying something about that. In May, the transitional provisions on freedom in the labour market for EU citizens are now under way. The next problem is that we have a relatively high rate of unemployment due to the financial and economic crisis. This is the next thing you need to do. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: March 2011!]] Yeah, that's in a year. But this year, Mr Bartenstein, is over. We know that. It's not easy! The cost of living in neighbouring countries is half lower than with us or even lower. That's already a certain problem with the commuters. You have to know that too! But now to the procedure: We will definitely agree to this deadline. This request was made by the Greens on 28 November. In October 2008, it was introduced and has now been postponed three times in the Committee. Such a practice is exactly what does not fit. Now we can say that the Rules of Procedure allow this. The fact is that in the Committee, as I say to you as an example, there are three government documents on preliminary discussions in committee which have not yet been included and 67 opposition requests, because there is no one from the government groups, a report from the Federal Government on the 95. The meeting of the Working Conference, and then 25 requests have already been postponed, some two or three times. This is a procedure that is unacceptable and should not be. But this is only the Committee, and the other committees will be here. If I am opposed to a request from the opposition, then I can vote against it, but you do not want to, because it would then be discussed in plenary and the people outside might then insist that it would actually be reasonable what you reject. At least make a request yourself! You can write down opposition requests and write SPÖ and ÖVP on them! Please, we will still agree to this, because then at least we have implemented it. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21223	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the application 11/A concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, a deadline until 12. ==References== If you are in favour of this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. [[18:26:20]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21259	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda and point out that only three speakers are still on the speaker list and therefore the votes will take place in about 7 to 8 minutes. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21283	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We were at the end of my speech this afternoon at the most important point of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, namely the new definition of the administrative procedure and the public information, which is really the most important point. There is now the mentioned grate hike: If you get information too early, you're in danger of being sued, you're going to be instigated. If you're too late, you have the damage to the population. That's the big difference in the evaluation. We think there was an information deficit. The second difference is how to deal with it. We believe that, where it is relevant to criminal law, a statement of facts submitted by our colleague, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, is quite sufficient. And in the direction of BZÖ said: In this area, we consider a ministerial contribution to be absolutely not proportionate and a little too much of the good. But there is another point, and it is very different from the BZÖ, even though the former Vice-Cancecian Molterer does not see this as such, namely the difference between a party that is acting straight, even in legal matters, and someone who makes populist smolder policy. One last point, and this is particularly important in this law: We have federal legislation, but we have national consumer protection councils responsible for implementation. In reality, we have had shortcomings in monitoring which we now want to compensate for by introducing a food safety report. How does it look in reality? . We have state councils, and I do not take into account colleagues in Upper Austria at all, who are present at any time with all possible demands to the Federation. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not bad either!]] However, where he himself had potential for action, for example in the case of smokers, in the award of prices and in the control of prices, he is a bit sparse. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: He is a very consistent consumer protection council!]] There's nothing he mentions at all, as he tends to be very backward. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Don't talk nonsense!]] There's so much you can yell around, that's it. He then asks when it comes to the covenant. When it comes to doing something himself, he's a little bit of an action weak. With this point we can control this very well now, we can look at it. That's what we need. What we don't need is populism, also of state councils. What we don't need is to push each other into debt or a political spectacle. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] – You can still scoff so much, unfortunately, it does not change anything, as he is still a bit of an action weak, Mr Anschober. What we very much need, however, is a rapid, comprehensive information to ensure the health of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21359	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21380	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The novelle of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act will provide for significant improvements in the so important food sector. With this change of law, we make the clear sign that we take food safety very seriously and that safety is very, very important to us. This change, ladies and gentlemen, is also an expression of the fact that we are concerned with food of the highest quality and that we want to ensure or guarantee this quality of food under this law. This change thus also ensures rapid intervention for consumers, even if there is only a reasonable suspicion of food-related disease. This law also assures consumers of information when it comes to harmful products. This law also states that a food safety report must be submitted and published by the Federal Minister. This will ensure more information for consumers, and it will now also provide more transparency in food legislation. In this context, I also very much regret that a matter so important to the population by the BZÖ has not been approved by the Committee for the amendment of this legislation. I hope the opinion of the BZÖ is still changing. Since we also have a BZÖ ministerial anchorage on the agenda today, I must make it clear and note that our Federal Minister Alois Stöger acted according to best knowledge and conscience and according to the point and addition of the law. [[Abg. Grosz: The “best” is!]] The warning took place at the earliest possible time. He clearly identified and outlined his competences and the competences of the Ministry and also the distribution of competence in the health care system within the Committee. Thank you, Mr Mi-Nister! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Did the woman Rudas write you that way?]] Already in the Health Committee, the ministerial support submitted by the BZÖ member Grosz – he said he was speaking – was largely rejected. The Health Committee has expressed its trust in the Federal Minister Alois Stöger in detail and confirmed the confidence in his responsible work. Mr. Federal Minister, I thank you for your professional, competent and responsible actions and wish you good luck and success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21449	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21470	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been discussed quite exhaustively: if information is informed too early, it will be informed too late. Both have problems. I agree with the regulation that we are now deciding on: We support this regulation, we also think it is right, but at the same time it also means more responsibility for the Minister and more responsibility for the ministry. That's right. Mr Minister, my problem is not whether you have been informed too early or too late. We discussed this in committee. I do not think you should make any accusations on the basis of the legal situation so far. The problem I have with you, Mr Federal Minister, arises where, after the product has been removed from the market, after the Prolactal company has declared that there are already lists in them, but only in small quantities, after the workers' chamber in Styria has filed a model complaint with two employees, which is about the fact that the company has been using spent additives, which have been expired for seven years, say enzymes that should actually suppress the lists, the cheese, the stench cheese, say: That's all the case with the courts now. What I expect from you and from a well-functioning administration is that you, Federal Minister, say: What can we do better? It can't be that a company in the size of this company with more than a hundred people can market a product over several months, although it says: Yes, we have already established by self-control that there are lists in there, but the concentration is still below the limit. This, although we all know that there is no limit for lists, because of course, products need to be placed on the market without listings. Thus, a company has knowingly violated legal provisions, and that over several months. According to the report of the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, workers in the company were harmed in their health. And the moment these workers then consider a complaint with the Chamber of Labour, they are also threatened by the company with legal consequences. If that is the case, Minister of State – and I take this away from the media – then you cannot say: The courts decide. Then fire is on the roof for politics, for the ministries, not necessarily for your ministry, because then I would like to know: How has it looked over the years with the protection of workers in this company? Mr Pirklhuber has already stated today that, as far as the wastewater is concerned, it has obviously not been the best operation either. There is also a need to: I know what that looked like. One cannot, as it were, hold back from being competent and say: This is none of our concern as a health ministry. I want to know: What about health complaints? Have they been presented in earlier months? I would like to know whether the company has documented in the self-controls to which it was obliged and which it has obviously carried out, that there has been a list of cases, since when, how many months and in what concentration. I would like to know all of this, as a Member of Parliament. If you tell me, Minister of State, that this is the case in any case, then that is too little for me, because there is a need for action here, probably the least for the ministry, but in all cases for the supervisory authority of the country, the food supervision. We also know that this is partly in a catastrophic state as far as human occupation is concerned. We also know that this problem is unlikely to be addressed by a food supervision that is still so well developed. But we need to talk about it – and not say: Let's work the dishes! In this case, the courts only clarify the question of individual debt or, when it comes to the question of liability, the liability of the company. Otherwise they'll do nothing! On the other hand, we need to see if the processes work. And if you just say, Mr Minister, that the courts are working anyway, then I doubt that exactly this question of procedures, the better functioning procedures, is in the best hands of the authorities who actually bear the responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21529	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First, the vote on the draft federal law amending the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act in 663 of the supplements. Hiezu has called for a separate vote on several points of the draft by Mr Ursula Haubner. I shall first vote on the parts which I mention, and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall be voting separately on paragraphs 2, 25, 34, 35, 42 and 44 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report. If you vote in favour of these provisions, I would ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask you to give your assent. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are also in third reading for this draft law, I would ask for an acceptable sign. – That is unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report. If you give your consent, I ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:39:45]] Vote on agenda item 2
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21602	We are now moving to agenda item 2 on loan and credit law amendment law in 650 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues submitted an additional amendment or amendment. The Members of Parliament also have power. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal. I am therefore going to vote first on the supplementary proposals mentioned, then on the parts covered by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, who has the content of incorporating a new point 4a into Article 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues on the insertion of a new point 1 and a new point 6a in Article 3 and the resulting amendment of the point designation in Article 3. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, ladies and gentlemen, who has the following amendments on the content: Article 2 Sections 7, 29 and 30 and Annexes I, II and III, Article 3(4), (5) and (7) Article 4(20) and Article 8 37. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join these amendments to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their consent here to give a sign on this matter. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier, Mag. Donnerbauer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Data use through credit information and quality standards for information-based systems and credit-coring’. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I ask you for your vote. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 90.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen on consumer protection improvements in the loan and credit law amendment law. If you are in favour of this request, I ask you for a sign. – The request is rejected. [[18:42:53]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 865/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Dr. Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on the National Food Action Plan – NAP.E (665 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21712	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21740	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Diet and exercise are an important cornerstone of health maintenance and promotion. Dietary diseases are rising worldwide and also in Austria. Obesity and its consequences are already the “epidemia” of the 21st century, as the World Health Organization has maintained. ==References== Therefore, in its global strategies on nutrition, exercise and health, the WHO calls on states to finally take action. In its White Paper on nutrition, the European Commission also proposes concrete measures and calls on the Member States to take measures to ensure that the “epidemia” of the 21st century is implemented. ==References====External links== Measures have already been taken in some countries of the European Union, for example in the Federal Republic of Germany. The national action plan on nutrition is also available to us today. I believe that the activity area is a very broad one, and I just want to throw a few lights on the topics of nutrition and exercise. There are obese young people, children and adults on the one hand, because we may lack the movement or because we eat badly. On the other hand, there are also a lot of young people, especially young girls, who eat far too little due to a beauty ideal and then are not healthy because of malnutrition. There are migrants who are too little informed about the effects or negative effects of diseases such as diabetes. There are also plant kitchens in the plants, where perhaps not well cooked. We also need to look at how the diet of workers is. There are old people who are misnourished because they eat too few fruits and vegetables or, as we may know from our grandparents, too little drinking, which also has health consequences. The general objectives of this National Food Action Plan are to go primarily in the direction of reducing the risks of disease and of feeding-related diseases to prevent and improve disabilities in order to improve their age. The maintenance of working capacity and thus the reduction of early retirement is an important point; at the same time, these measures are of course also important in order to reduce the number of early, premature deaths as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important measure because it can reduce a lot of personal suffering, but it is also a very important preventive measure in relation to cost savings in the health system. I would like to thank the Federal Minister Stöger very much for this action plan. Not only do I thank you, but also the employees. I am pleased that we can discuss this here in plenary today and thus also make a contribution to the fact that we may work together to ensure that the Austrians will eat healthier in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21801	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21822	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Then to your words, Mrs Csörgits – so I have my doubts as to whether we feed ourselves very healthyly, but may this national diet be a way in the right direction! We always discuss health care costs – €27 billion in total. And we always discuss what we can do in the field of hospitals. The hospital is the last point in the chain. Anyone who used to be in the hospital knows he doesn't really want to be in the hospital. I've never seen a patient say it's great to be in the hospital. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] The right diet would be a point that contributes to getting healthy old and avoiding diseases, and that is not uninteresting in health policy. Did you know that more people probably die from obesity in Austria than from the effects of smoking? If we transfer the figures from America to Austria, and this is certainly acceptable, then today more people are dying of obesity-related diseases than the consequences of smoking! Only when smoking there is a guilty person – the tobacco industry. When we are overweight, we often owe ourselves a little bit: We move too little and so on and so on. The costs now amount to about 8 percent of the total health costs. Such costs must be described as enormous. Only the individual doesn't care, the individual doesn't think about cash contributions and costs, but he asks himself: Does it help me or not? Simple example: In Austria, 4,000 people are operated bypass every year – i.e. due to narrowing of heart vessels. If you form two groups, you can prove that in those people who then fed themselves after the so-called French diet or Mediterranean diet – lots of vegetables, salads, fish and so on – the infarction risk was 50 percent lower than in those who were then only treated medically. Another example, osteoporosis: 600,000 people, about 85 percent of women, have osteoporosis at age. This leads to about 30,000 vertebral fractures, to about 20,000 cervical fractures – earlier a death sentence that thanks to God is quickly operationally resuscisable. Would it not have been a failure if we were to take more milk products in the youth? That would increase the calcium mass in the body. The professional expression is called Big Bone Mass Index. It would have failed to intervene 30 or 40 years later with great medical measures that cost enormous amounts of money and sometimes also bring suffering. I think there are enough reasons. I could talk for hours now – against my own profession, because I live on sick and less healthy. But I think the goal of a modern health policy and a health policy with a heart – and we stand by the ÖVP – must be that as many people as possible grow healthy. That is why the National Action Plan is a very good instrument. It may be unspectacular – much less spectacular than to close a hospital or to argue about increases in contribution. But I think that's very, very important. Because if we don't do anything, the excess weight, according to researchers, will increase once again by 50 percent – it has increased by 50 percent in recent years. That is, we cannot afford to become a nonmoving, increasingly overweight nation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21865	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21886	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been said about this national action plan on nutrition. No one here will argue that healthy diet is important and good. However, I have the following question: If I bring out such a diet plan – who will stick to it? What does this plan do – alone, only if it is here? – In fact, I don't think so, Minister of State. For one thing you have to say: We now have the third generation of children who feed on junk food. We have a generation of children moving only between television and computer. And right there, I think, are the big problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I come to the mankos of this diet plan. There is no reference at all to exercise or physical discipline. I think, Federal Minister, it would be necessary for you, if you really take this seriously and seriously, to talk to your colleague Schmied about, for example, introducing a daily sports hour in schools. That too would be a step in the right direction. In addition, a healthy jause should be offered in schools. There are still schools where children can only choose between chocolate bars and liver cheese. Of course, it's growing. These are all things I have to say: The diet plan is well meant, but will not do anything in this respect. In addition, the following are added: Healthy food, that's just one thing, Minister of State. I know you've been trying to do it all the time, but we still have very high pesticides in the vegetables, we don't have any limit values for acrylamide. All these things belong to such an action plan, or they are also viewed and regulated in parallel. And there's nothing going on at all! An important point is the fact that we in Austria offer a lot of food, of which we do not know where they come from and whether they are healthy or not. An example for me is the Tyrolean company Handl Tyrol. She's now getting the AMA mark for sale. And then it's inside. “By awarding the bacon with the AMA seal, the share of Austrian meat increases to up to 37 percent.” – That means, in reverse, that 63 percent do not come from Austria! Mr Federal Minister, you should also start there, namely to make sure that people even know what they are buying. Because people buy this bacon in good faith that these piglets have grown up healthy in Austria – and they might get meat from dioxin pigs from Ireland instead! All these points are included in such an action plan! Beautiful tables are not enough! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, we will of course vote in favour of this action plan, although I would like to say: There is still a lot to be done to really lead people to healthy diet, namely the opportunity to give them the chance to buy healthy food, and also to give them safety. But at the same time and in parallel, there should be an action plan for sport and for physical movement. It's got to start with the little ones. Actually, it's already too late in schools, it must start in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21963	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e21984	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Their action plan is extremely ambitious, as ambitious as in many areas the health reform was years ago. Only if you look at what has been implemented by the health reform, then I have to say, I wish the diet a better fate. So you must not withdraw quickly. I think you have to go through to implement parts of this plan at all. You should be modest. If you always lose so to speak, you don't realize plans, you don't do any more – I don't want to. That's why I'm saying: There are things you could have done a long time ago. I visited a very close person after a difficult operation at a university clinic about two months ago and I thought: I'm sorry. There's been another stroke now. He couldn't speak anymore. Then what was? – The tongue stuck to the palate. Next to him at the night box stood a liter's jar of water, which was the same in the morning as in the evening. You didn't notice that he couldn't drink alone! Then the food comes in, someone comes in and says, Have you had enough? There was not even the cutlery used, and the food was carried out! These are things you have to look at! Where I have further doubts: It is obvious that education has a massive impact on health and nutrition. Now the education sector is being saved. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. But now we have to make it clear. That's quite well inside, education everywhere: Kindergarten, school, parents, still propaganda. We need notes and warnings about breast milk substitutes that suggest: The faster the baby has increased a kilo, the better it is for the child – which, of course, is total nonsense, where you skip entire stages in the diet plan to keep up with the competition of neighboring children and other infants. All this costs money. I wish you the money, but then we also need a vice chancellor here on the stage, who also supports this diet plan. Otherwise, the following: They appeal, health must become affordable. People are responsible when they are sick because they have taken so many calories; because they have moved badly, they themselves are guilty. That's what I'm doing. They are supposed to finance it themselves – and the state leans back and saves. But the expenditure on healthy nutrition must be made! There are already boutiques for food, boutiques for oils. Then tell a poor single mother: Buy the expensive multiunsaturated fatty acids, which brings you something. – It will be difficult! Where you can do a lot – it also stands inside –: Declaration of food. But look at this, that doesn't even create academics when I look at the hidden side of the small print under five folds. And there are any abbreviations, some just numbers, among which no human can imagine anything. You just have to make pickerl in, say, green, white, orange and black and say: Green is healthy, the other one will still stand, and others would at least not be advised to take it daily. Do something against misleading advertising! Where is it now advertised? So I hear only more gut noises on TV: my “wohlfühlbauch”, no more winds plague me. Then, occasionally, still desert intestinal tracts are recommended, where wild electrolyte losses occur. Many no longer know where medicine stops and analotics begin! It's an insanity what happens in part! If you look at Activia's or Actimel's advertising or what they all look like, you can see a lot of neurotic men who are afraid of cat hair, bacteria and dust, and then the mother says: Drink this and you won't get sick! So that's gonna cost a lot of money, and there's something you can do. You could go through the advertising or perhaps tax it if things are promised that are an absolute nonsense. I would recommend that you make this too low. Then you have to go to schools, go to businesses and create incentives. With punishment and so on, not much has been won. Another thing: There are health professions, as people have studied nutrition. They don't get a job. There's something you need to do. In public kitchens, in people of federal army, hospitals, schools, graduate nursing scientists or assistants, as they used to say, or nutritionists would have to be employed. Every one of me 1,000 sick beds must be there, someone who also advises the kitchen. Maybe you should start small. Don't give up and look for allies! We like to help, but I also want to experience something about plans, and that will be a broad way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22051	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22075	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot by my previous speakers, and I can say to the BZÖ that we too will agree with this National Food Action Plan, and I share the view of many previous speakers that many measures are proposed in this nutrition plan, very well-intentioned advice, but I am afraid, as in many other national action plans, that the macularity remains and that implementation will then be the tricks. In particular, diet would be such an important part of health care, and we from the BZÖ are always strengthening our efforts to invest more in prevention, more in health promotion, more in the maintenance of health, because this is also the guiding principle of a sustainable health policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's where the diet belongs. It is necessary to counter wrong eating habits, to combat obesity and also to combat excessive robbery of alcohol health, drugs, drugs. So there is a lot to do here, and especially the children and the young people are a special concern to me here, especially those who get little resources from their families, who have a social environment that has a negative impact on them, which also leads to deficits in physical, but also in mental health and basic care. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] We have already made a number of requests on the part of the BZÖ in the past. Today has been addressed, in the school you have to start, in the kindergarten. We from the BZÖ have introduced a school health programme under the motto “healthy living”, which provides that especially school doctors are even more involved in this prevention. We have also submitted an application for free therapies for children and young people – also an important concern. These are applications that have been in the Committee for weeks, and I am really excited if perhaps this National Food Plan is an incentive to take these suggestions out of the applications and to include them. I say that the National Food Action Plan is well meant, but it is clearly too short because the movement is only mentioned with one or two sentences. I think movement and nutrition are so inseparably linked, and one of the experts in the last committee has put it to the point. He said: Eat 30 percent less and move 70 percent more. This is very plausible, but in the end it says a lot. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This should also apply to us here!]] Precisely, Mr Pirklhuber, for us too. I therefore also miss the fact that programmes that have proved themselves well in recent years, such as the “Fit for Austria” programme by then Secretary of State Karl Schweitzer, are no longer involved in this National Action Plan. It was a programme that was implemented very well in cooperation with the sports clubs, but also with doctors. We need to keep people healthy in the future, knowledge of the right diet, as well as accompanying measures. We need more movement – the daily movement is also missing from each one of us – but we also need incentives to take over self responsibility for my health, for my healthy body. Consumers must have a knowledge and must be aware so that they can also buy information accordingly. Therefore, from your side, Mr. Federal Minister, targeted action is absolutely necessary, for we know that targeted action in health care also has economic consequences and is economically very positive. One euro for precautionary care invests three euros in the field of repair medicine. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So there are many good approaches in this diet plan that would be justifiable, there are already a lot of good projects that you, I think, just have to network more, and – that has already been addressed – you need money for it, of course, you have to invest something, and that is the problem for me now. If I see where the ministries have to save – it is not just the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Family Affairs – I have some concerns, so I say: Well meant, an appeal to the population, but it won't change because you don't invest because you don't have any financial resources at your disposal. I hope, however, that there is still a possibility that it will not only remain in place that a large committee on nutrition will be set up again, as foreseen in this plan. We already know exactly who is sitting in there again, but not what the measures are then. They're staying here a little nebulos. I am therefore also presenting a motion for a resolution in connection with the motion for a resolution, and I hope – this National Action Plan is still a draft consultation – that our request will also be received. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22167	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22247	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22268	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Diet and movement determine the duration and quality of our lives and also define us as a cost factor for the state. Therefore, it is important that we deal with diet, exercise very consciously. Several countries in Europe have already tried to correct this. The Austrian Food Report also shows the need for action in Austria, and therefore our Minister of Health Stöger has also responded to the Austrian situation with the National Food Action Plan. He wants to raise awareness of the problem to the Austrian population. However, improvement is undoubtedly a change, a change in lifestyle. But this must not be the case, but we need a strong, broad lobby. It will be important that all sub-areas, from kindergarten to nursing home, are part of the awareness-raising process and that, above all, all those producing food, from farmers to the food industry, offer the goods in such a way that the consumer knows what he is buying. Keywords: Labelling. Healthy nutrition means more benefit to the economy, especially more well-being for individuals. The fact that education of consciousness also brings success shows the example in my federal state, where the communities have been active since 2000 under the title “Healthy Village”. Two-thirds of all municipalities participate in this project, and since the previous year there is also a separate job, a separate association that coordinates the work, the association for prophylactic health work. 13 themes are selected, each of which the municipalities define according to their own needs in working groups. This ranges from diet to exercise to medical care. The project shows that together moving, also sharing weight loss and the like are more fun but also a success. The fact that the population of Burgenland is 50 percent more involved in the prevention investigation than the average of Austria, I think, is proof of the success of this project. Movement has been addressed several times before. I should just like to point out that the two Ministries for Sport and Education have already presented a five-point programme for more sport and movement in school and kindergarten, also in cooperation with the sports clubs. Bad diet and no or lack of exercise are the epistle for the heart attack, which none of us, of course, want. On the contrary: Everyone wants to stay healthy, and everyone wants to live as long as possible. The National Food Action Plan will be a guide to this. Of course, everyone will have to live him.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22308	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22330	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website The causes are almost everywhere a wrong diet and too little exercise. The population feeds on fat, too salty and too sweet. Unfortunately, especially among children, God’s obesity is increasing. That is why I believe it is necessary first of all to raise awareness about the consequences of cardiovascular disease, cancer or diabetes, and that obesity is permanent illness. In addition to the educational work, the prevention is necessary. There has already been a lot of talk about this, and the National Food Action Plan is also going in this direction. A healthy, varied diet and in connection with exercise are the answer to the previously mentioned diseases. The National Food Plan deals with measures to promote health and prevent pre-nutritional diseases. A few thoughts and suggestions from my side to the diet plan. The most important thing, of course, is to ensure safe and healthy food production, are high-quality, healthy foods, which thankfully makes our agriculture available daily. Then we are dealing with the implementation of these measures, for example, the healthy school jause that has been addressed. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Very important!]] There are also programs from the Ministry of Life here. School milk, school fruit programmes and low sugar drinks should be offered in our schools. This works very well in many projects. But it also belongs to the movement. And there, I think, one should also think about the curriculum and offer additional gymnastics here. We see this especially with the children that they move too little, that too little sport is being done. It would therefore be very important, I believe, to rethink and reorient the measures here, particularly in the field of pupils and young people in schools. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention one point which is particularly important to me as a works council, which is the promotion of occupational health. You should discuss them here, too. We have drinking water containers out there. I mean, there are at least a few positive measures here in the House. The creation of drinking water containers should also be implemented in the establishments; we should deal with this subject more intensively. For example, you could also give water jars as a gift to encourage you to take enough liquid. Fruit baskets, healthy food in the canteens are a topic. The staff go to the canteens almost daily, because it is cost-effective there, there should also be a healthy diet offered. Movement and fitness programs should be created for the employees in the businesses, and good equipment with office furniture is today also a command of the hour and must also be required. And here I am on the subject. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we should consider once again the equipment we have here in the House. If we're already sitting on these armchairs for ten hours or more, and it's going to take a few hours, it's actually a cut. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Every work inspector would close this room, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who has been on the road with a work inspector somewhere in a farm, knows he wouldn't allow it to work in such places. In conclusion: This National Food Action Plan, ladies and gentlemen, is a real and important measure: And according to the motto “life as long as possible healthy” this action plan should also be further developed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22379	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22401	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my work as Minister of Health, I said that the issue of nutrition is very important to me, first of all because it is also possible to put in place many health policy measures with small measures that are cost-effective. I have already put in place some measures in my activity. I recall the reduction of transfatty acids or that I have changed the position of Austria in the EU in dealing with food labelling. I am concerned with mandatory nutritional labelling for all foods. It is also about improving the data base on food. I would remind you that we have published the Austrian Food Report, which my predecessor has still commissioned. It is also about that we have commissioned a new nutrition report for 2012. It's about learning the right food from the beginning, working with toddlers. It is about dealing with how advertising works in children. We have also given an order here to think about whether advertising restrictions are important. It is also about supporting other ministries. It is about the fact that we are active in nutrition education and nutrition. We want to involve the gastronomy – it has already been addressed in the field of community food – and we have presented the food pyramid. This diet pyramid should ensure that we have simple signals, which we can eat, which is good. This should be presented simply in order to make it clear how we can improve and change the diet. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I need you! They are people who have confidence in the population. Think for yourself where you can improve your diet! And I am deeply convinced that something can be done in this house too. I need your cooperation in the organizations in which you work. How does the proper diet work? Do you always keep that to yourself? And that's where you know how difficult that is. I am also aware that the National Food Action Plan is a major task. But we have to face up to this great task. It has been criticized – and not wrong – and diet also belongs to exercise. I know that, and I want to do it. I would remind you that tomorrow there will be a large meeting of the Healthy Austria Fund on the subject of movement. We want to involve the movement. But this is so central and so important, and so that we can also address the sports associations and work on this issue well, we will also be working in parallel with the Diet Action Plan with actions in the field of movement. Both are important, and it is about changing behavior. But it is also central to change the conditions. What are the conditions for children to get to the right diet in their school? What information do mothers find to feed their children properly? It would also be good if the fathers had an idea of it. I think that it is necessary today that you also receive the relevant information, because everyone has to take care of himself, care for himself. I'll invite you to: Help me where you work! The Food Action Plan has been discussed with experts, we have held the discussion in the Committee. He is still at the consultation stage. You can still make contributions! Finally, it is about setting up cost-effective measures so that we can stay healthier so that we can maintain our health. We need to go the way that healthier nutrition in all areas of life is the easier choice. I'm looking for your participation!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22465	The next speaker was Mr Karlsböck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22486	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is positive that a scientifically sound, officially supported directive on healthy nutrition will finally become reality. However – and this is our privilege as an opposition, of course we found a hair in the soup – I have to criticise, and you have fortunately already weakened it, that the sport factor has been taken so low into account in this National Action Plan, because healthy diet without sports is nonsense, just as sports and wrong diet are silly and the result is neutralized for the body. Movement and nutrition are a dual principle. Even the way – even if you have invited us and we can bring something more or less to the end of the month – we do not really like the creation. Mr Minister, you have made this plan by high-ranking experts, no question. This plan, I think, was presented as a raw report in January. The raw report, it seems to me, is already the final version in broad circles. We are then presented to Parliament, to the Committee, a few months later. Experts are invited where I now ask myself in retrospect what function these experts have had there, because, as I have said, the whole has already been completed more or less, and we know that perhaps if we still had to find something that would be incorporated in some form. I'm just wondering: The brochures we all got today, they're all done. So, what are we supposed to be able to do? It would be a huge waste of money to deliver these facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Short: Disturbed me personally – and I want to say this on the basis of this example – that the wheel must always be reinvented. I think we should ask ourselves, in the future, before we act on an actist basis, whether there are already templates and examples of the action we want to assess here somewhere in the world or at least in the neighbouring Europe. In the specific case, this is natural, and above all Germany is really an example. Germany has a functioning, long-standing National Health Plan, where a national diet plan is defined as a partial result or partial objective. This plan, which is excellent, we could have taken one. We should not have done much, we could just take it as it is and let the population benefit. This would, of course, also have the advantage of saving itself from the ministerial side the negative reluctance of the Court of Auditors to do so. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. I still have to conclude a criticism: It also raises the question of whether it makes sense to create, on the one hand, a plan – which is of course welcome in its core statement – about proper nutrition, if on the other hand, for example, national school authorities, which are not in political vacuum, autonomously, completely contrary to the recommendations contracts, for example with buffet operators or Coke automatists, where it is actually only about a profit maxim maximization and not about healthy nutrition. If we could critically light all these things and perhaps, as a suggestion from our side, still work in some form, that would be positive. We will support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22560	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22581	Yes, Minister of State, the time is progressing! The National Diet Plan is still in the design stage. We are certainly not leading in Europe, but we have now, so to speak, packed the bull with the horns, and from a green point of view, it is no question that proper nutrition is a central issue. This is a cultural theme and ultimately also a question of our lifestyle and lifestyle. Right nutrition is the best medicine, which is an ancient wisdom. Paracelsus has already described this in similar words, and that is a basic knowledge with which you have to deal with again and again at all times. The problems have already been addressed: 17 to 18 percent of schoolchildren, with the girls a little less than the boys, have difficulty with obesity. The improvement in this area is an urgent command when we look into the future, and you have spoken about the cost-effective measures we need, Mr Federal Minister. Yeah, we're on it! Now I come to our request and recall that Mr Greenewald, Mr Walser and I have put in the house a request for a healthy diet and movement action plan in January 2009. We've got it on 18 November. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government groups have rejected him here in plenary on November. I am also sorry – Mrs Haubner has brought in a small impulse with her request today – that on such an important question we have not contributed a joint resolution from Parliament for this action plan. That's very bad. We've let this chance pass. But we will, of course, take part in the consultation with our request, Mr Federal Minister. I would just like to take two or three measures where you will see that these are precisely located where you have built your argument today. Point 1 of this request: Our requirement was to provide for legal regulations on advertising with children's food, i.e. advertising restrictions on marketing for foods containing calories or low-nutrient foods. These are the challenges! It doesn't cost a cent, and it's just about taking responsibility seriously. Politics is responsible. We now have little money to control, but we can control right laws. I call you a second possibility: the ban – and the colleague Karlsböck has rightly mentioned this – of certain products in school canteens or in school at all. There I consider a product advertising for highly questionable products from the food sector to be negligent for several reasons. How should we support the educators in education for better nutrition, while at the same time applying for products that oppose it, for example, certain drinks that are simply extremely problematic from sugar content?- Oh, my God! Then we also come to an important issue, namely the question of gender-distinct eating habits. Men and women, boys and girls – and this has been proven to have a study carried out by experts in Austrian schools – have quite different eating habits and experiences, and we also need to address these possibilities specifically. We must take young people with us, should not determine about them, not know better what is good for them, but together with them the culture of food – and that is something very essential, something that moves us every day – develop or develop. We live today in a different world of work than we did 50 years ago. Fat was an important energy engine at the time. If you go into the forest and have to work there for a whole day, you also have no problem with fatty foods, because the very easy way to process these foods. Also in occupations such as in the construction industry, for example, a different diet is advisable than for people working in the office. We know that, of course, and that is to be taken into account. That is why we are also in favour of this request and would be pleased if you could support some of our very specific measures, especially in terms of organic nutrition and food supply in schools. This is a support for rural products in the regions, a support to young people that they come together with tasteful and high-quality foods, and that is also cultural work for our landscape, for our knowledge-based modern system. That is why I am very curious about what measures you will then implement. We will be actively involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22642	The next speaker was Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22664	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Obesity is on the rise in all age groups and with increasing age. It is only from the age of 65 that a trend reverse is recognizable. Why is that so? I think the diagnosis is quite simple: because there is no overweight ninety-nine-year-old. He'll get sick a lot, much earlier. These frequent early and severe diseases also cost a fortune, and therefore it is extremely important that this National Food Action Plan not only remains a headline, but that you really try to implement it as well as possible. This is a good offer and brings a win-win situation for citizens and for health policy. For citizens it brings a higher age, more well-being, more quality of life. The cost of consumption would decrease at the same time, and above all it would save both alcohol and nicotine. For health policy, drug costs would fall enormously, the disease would fall and the scope of repair medicine would stagnate in the medium term. Employment would improve and the number of early pensioners could be reduced. As a loser, the pharmaceutical lobby should be left to do business with the entire advertising, which works with fast food chains and advertises this inferior food supply. In practice, as Mr Haubner has already said, it is not possible without movement, and I would therefore believe that it is important that we all support this request. We can also consider a practical example: hospitals, schools, people, homes, barracks. In my home country, in Lienz, the hospital, the district salt house and the barracks pick up the meat from Villach and the milk from Salzburg – only because it is cheaper, just because this enormous saving pressure, which is also understandable, works on it. There's also a need to rethink. But where we should all go with good example, for example in the Tiroler Landtag, German milk is given out – probably for cost reasons, because Members prefer to travel to America for a study trip. No one knows what they are studying, probably the drinking culture. [[Call the ÖVP:Louis Vuitton!]] These are simple facts, and it is important – as we have already heard from everyone today, there is a great one – that the cholesterol, the sugar, the alcohol, the eating culture generally have the right consciousness, when cooking and shopping to full-value food, to domestic products; and above all, that politics is progressing with good example. Then it takes another month of running, a month of gymnastics, a month of spines. This must be started in the kindergarten and implemented accordingly. In addition, I think it is very important, Mr Federal Minister, to start a campaign: Fit instead of fat – just like alcohol at the wheel. That would bring a lot. As I said, It is important to address all age groups, from the infant to the pensioner, that sport and movement become a fixed part of our lives, and then the whole thing will also have a positive impact on the entire population.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22697	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22719	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My group welcomes the broad approval of today's motion for a resolution on the Healthy Food Action Plan. Efforts to ensure the best possible health care and care for all citizens have always been a constructive element of social democracy since its inception. At the beginning – actually until after the Second World War – the fight against deadly diseases was in the foreground. In addition, social democracy in its programmes has always focused on healthy nutrition in connection with sport and movement. The efforts have remained the same to this day, only the framework conditions have changed. The reason for the mid-war and post-war food programmes was the under-sufficiency of healthy food. We are dealing with the opposite today, we have an oversupply with life- in the case of large sections of the population. Equally, the fact that many citizens today often do not want to eat healthy foods has remained the same. We therefore see the need to set the relevant priorities more broadly and holisticly, namely in the areas of health policy, school sport and social policy. It is essential, in principle, as a strategic steering paper that this National Action Plan on Food is available quickly and that new measures can be implemented quickly. It will be crucial that this National Diet Action Plan not only defines the objectives, identifies fields of action, integrates various actions and projects, but also does not lose sight of the practical application. Of course, an important building block in the prevention of nutrition and health represents school policy – that has already been mentioned – because health competence is also very closely linked to the educational issue. The school fruit programmes have already been mentioned, which could also be extended to the kindergarten, and the next all day school should be used to offer more sports and exercise programs to students. But above all, the social sector is also an important area, because people with low incomes are eating unhealthyly in relation to the others. I do not really want to see the situation, as it is in America, that this Fat Pride movement is totally in place and in no way indicates the health risks associated with it. That is why I would like to thank our Social Minister very much, who, in his programmes at the AMS, also promotes sport and nutrition, such as in a pilot project in our district, “Step 2 Job”, where this area has an important place. In summary, I would like to point out that we will soon have a significant action plan on nutrition and that we are on a very good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22773	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22794	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Where do you see yourself in ten, 20, 30 years: at the tennis court? Working on the desk? Or at the nursing home? How fit you are in the future, you can partly influence this yourself, namely through exercise and nutrition. The doctors Grünewald and Rasinger have shown us this impressively today. How can we prevent diseases? – This question is not just for us personally. I think it's a very central question. Politically, I mean, we're at a crossroads. Are we able to move the Austrians to a healthy lifestyle – or are we still going to eat too much fat, too sweet, too salty, and that with huge effects? We know a lot of people live longer, that's ten, 20, 30 years won. And that's the question: Do they spend these years with hobbies, with work – or no more mobile and dependent on foreign help? This is about human suffering and also about huge costs for social systems and health systems. Mrs Haubner said: 1 € Prevention is invested, save 3 € in treatment costs. That's impressive numbers! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be possible to maintain working capacity for a longer period of time, and it must be possible to improve mobility in old age. Many people may have to live healthy longer, so we need the National Action Plan. We need more food-related prevention, Mrs Csörgits has pointed out, not only for young people but especially for older people, because they are particularly vulnerable. They drink too little, eat too little, and some can't afford healthy food at all – that's what you should think about. There is a need for a variety of measures, not only advice, we also discuss incentives for a healthy lifestyle. The nice thing about it: Success will be measurable, namely less ill people, less suffering, less costs – this is a motivation, and it is worth your commitment to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22852	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22873	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The National Diet Action Plan shows us that in Austria we have in principle enough of everything, to eat from some too much and make too little movement. That's right. On some points, however, he is also informative because he tells us that we are under-supplyed in the supply of calcium, vitamin D and folic acid. In particular, folic acid or folate or vitamin B 9 care is an issue that is very important for young women, because under-supplyed young women who become pregnant have the high risk that the adult child has a malformation called “spina bifida” or neural tube defect. The result may be that the woman then loses the child in the third, fourth month of pregnancy or that the child also comes into the world with malformations that can mean a life in the wheelchair for life. There are many countries in the world who take note of this nutritional situation – our eating habits have changed – and say: Yes, an enrichment of vitamin B 9 and B 12 in a basic food such as flour can significantly improve the situation. Many countries, including the United States, some countries, have introduced this addition of folic acid to flour. This sad situation has improved significantly in all these countries. 70 to 80 percent less children come to the world with these misformations, and the suffering that is prevented from doing so is probably worth the effort. You need to know that many young women take folat if they know they are pregnant, but then it's too late because the first days of pregnancy are crucial. Nevertheless, tablets are taken, and the cost of these tablets is much higher than the cost of mandatory mixing for the entire Austrian flour in the mill. It would be easy to do that. There are countries that show this, and we too should think about it. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to implement something in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22909	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22931	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, thank you very much to all those who have contributed to the preparation of this food action plan. An action plan which is not only necessary but, if I may say so, for which it is actually one before twelve. I also see it as a sign that the theme “prevention” is awakened from the winter sleep and becomes more important. In Austria, we need some rethinking. The OECD section states that 3 per cent of the total health costs for prevention are spent, Austria spends 1.9 per cent, there is still something to catch up with. Let me talk about the project myself. It is undisputed that the subject of obesity, obesity and the associated diseases have unfortunately become a mass theme, and the area of children and young people has to deal with us in particular. The action plan is very general about nutrition experts, and this will also address the question: Do we have enough experts, we have enough doctors, nutritionists and dietologists who can address such a long-term project – and only this makes sense –? – This is a question that needs to be answered. In this context, I should also like to refer to registration, which is a subject which is covered by the Government Convention. A decision in this area is still pending, but would be a good help to us in such a project. Another important point – and this has already been raised several times – is: I would like to ask you once again to think about connecting the topic of diet to the topic of exercise. There are enough studies that demonstrate that a change in nutrition in combination with the sufficient and right movement promises the greatest success. We and you now have the opportunity to use this national action plan on nutrition to achieve a comprehensive relationship and behavioural prevention. There are many expertises on this topic in Austria, there are many dedicated and ambitious projects. Benefits You can do this in the sense of the health of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e22983	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23004	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With this National Food Action Plan, we finally have an official manual in hand, as we actually do in compliance with... [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's not finished yet, it's a design!]] It's not finished yet, it's the draft, yes, but we have a document in our hands, and if we stick to it, we also know that we can die completely healthy. This may not be a particularly optimistic prospect, but it is at least one that makes us hope that, in the sense of public health and the savings targets that we always set ourselves, we can help not only to improve our health, but that with this great prevention programme, we can ultimately help the people not only to live healthierly but to improve their quality of life with more movement. And that this is possible, I can point out by an example from Burgenland. Mr Kaipel referred to it, and I would like to give another example: We still had the highest number of overweight children in 1998 and implemented a programme in schools with the school doctors and teachers, which enabled us to reduce the number of then 11.6% seriously overweight children to 4.2 percent today. You can see that if you take care of yourself, it is possible that you can achieve success even in a very difficult group like 15-year-old children. In this sense, I should like to encourage you, Minister of State, to join us in this draft to implement this national action plan on nutrition. If we are able to have fewer smokers due to the many smoker campaigns, we may also be able to have healthier people in Austria with this action plan. I can support you in this action plan.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23041	Mr Jury has been mentioned as the last speaker to be the President-in-Office of the Council. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23062	Mr President. Mr. Minister! After a very intense debate on food safety and consumer protection, we have reached the National Food Action Plan, which is very important for the future of our children. However, I have one point in this Food Action Plan, which is the scientific examination of flavor enhancers, of chemical additives in food. I also assume that Mr Grillitsch is speaking today as the head of the Federal Farmer's Office because it concerns healthy food. And if I hear that the commercial bacon, which contains only more than 34 percent of the basic Austrian product, receives the AMA seal, that's a label flaw. Mr Minister, I call on you to stop this label failure! It is also your responsibility that we finally introduce the traffic lights for food labelling. Then our children will also have a good future! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23103	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 91.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on 'More Movement' in the National Food Action Plan. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:52:46]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (474 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Energy Regulatory Authority Act (524 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23169	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Brunner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23196	Mr President. Minister! High house! In this bill on the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, it is a matter of ensuring the Federal Ministry of Energy, the Federal Minister for Energy, a right of information through the Energy Control. The Energy Control is an in itself independent body that decides, for example, on energy system usage tariffs. This law is intended to help the Federal Minister to obtain information rights. I think the control of this body is important, but it must not be that the decisions of this body are influenced. Here we see a problem in this government template, because in individual cases it may be that decisions of the body are already influenced by this right of information, because the state also has shares in various electricity companies. We therefore propose that there should be this right of information, but only for the purpose of parliamentary control. That is why I would like to make the following amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Brunner, Dr. Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen. The National Council wants to decide: The government template concerning a federal law amending the Energy Regulatory Authority Act (474 d.b.), as amended by the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (524, B.C.E.) is amended as follows: Z 2 is as follows: ‘2. The following section 19a and heading are inserted after section 19: ,Law of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth § 19a. For the purposes of parliamentary control, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth has the right to inform himself of all matters relating to the management of the Energy Control Commission.” As far as our request is concerned. But what I am still asking myself in this context is why we are talking only about a small part of the government structure, where we know that the third liberalisation package also includes further reorganisations by such authorities and we also need to consider a lot more. That's why we could have done this in a wash. This will be very important decisions, for example, with regard to the increased unbundling between energy producers and energy suppliers, in order to ensure that the Community's energy and energy policies are fully integrated. to ensure better and more efficient energy supply. There are already several proposals from the Commission. Our expectation would be that we will take the solution that there is a property-law unbundling between suppliers and producers in order to ensure genuinely efficient and affordable energy supply. The Commission has also wished to do so. As a result of the influence of large corporations, more debilitating options have also been filed. – We expect us to stick to this first option in Austria, namely the unbundling of suppliers and producers. Whatever it will be about is the question of how our network structure will look in the future. Do we go towards central, large networks, pipelines – keyword “Nabucco” – or do we go towards decentralised energy supply, renewable, ecological energy supply, “Smart Grids” et cetera? One essential question also concerns the interdependence or unbundling between politics and the economy, where there is also the influence, as I have mentioned above. In this context, it must be said that people in Austria are wondering why renewable energy is not going on. If we then have a former energy minister, a former German chancellor, who goes into an atomic group, then we need not wonder why the renewable energies are not going any further. – I believe that Mr Schüssel should relinquish his mandate in the house because that is simply incompatible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] We have an anti-atomic consensus here in this house, and he broke it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] That, I think, is incompatible. That is why it would only be honest if he were to relinquish the mandate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New calls from MEPs Grillitsch and Ing. Schools.]] I believe that energy policy is an essential key to climate policy. Therefore, environmental policy must play a much greater role in energy policy. I therefore believe that this must also necessarily go to environmental competence, and that is why I believe: Austria needs an independent, independent and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23312	The amendment previously tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23382	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Brunner has now served us a wide range of energy policy and other topics: the matter of informing the Minister – either a general topic of information or only for the purpose of parliamentary control; Next we had the Ownership Unbundling, Then we came to the Old Federal Chancellor and a call from Mrs. Brunner to Dr. Schüssel, but to reserve the mandate and last but not least the subject of independent, independent Ministry of the Environment. I will try to work out these four topics briefly in the next hour. For the first time, I cannot understand why your amendment to the substance should now change something. For two years, Federal Minister Mitterlehner has even been a constitutional authority – if already a non-disputed authority, if already a non-disputed collegiate body – to inform himself as minimum supervision of management at least. No, I would like to say that what Federal Minister Mitterlehner receives from there is also open to Parliament's right of interconnection, i.e. to the right of question. In fact, the Greens as Parliament should be the first to vote in favour of this law. - So much for one thing. Secondly, Ownership Unbundling – we did not want that, we do not want it, and we did not insist in the European Union alone, but together with the Germans and the French, that it would not be implemented in this form, as the Commission actually wanted, but rather as a reasonable unbundling adapted to our real circumstances, and that is good. What is now the environment: As a former Minister for the Environment, I can only say that environmental policy can be carried out if one is also responsible for other materials. At that time it was youth and family, with Minister Berlakovich it is now agriculture. So this has proved to be a good thing. We are once again a country where you do not have your own place of business for each subject. We are a small country – other countries are larger, have more ministries and thus also a different distribution of ministries. Last but not least – I am not the spokesman of Altbundeskanzler Schüssel, but one thing I have to say –: It is an honor for the Old Federal Chancellor and it is an honor for our country when one of our top leaders is appointed to the Supervisory Board in one of Europe's most important energy companies. – No more and no less. And all that is related to Atom and the like, Mrs Brunner, you talk about it best with your German colleagues. They were even for a time in this terrible nuclear country of Germany with this terrible RWE in a federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23465	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23486	Mr President. High house! I allow myself to highlight the subject a little further, because the present energy regulation law, a true breaker of tongues, is only an emergency nail for the fact that the competitive acceleration law could not enter into force and has been postponed by this Federal Government from red and black to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, contrary to the recommendations and support e.g. by Presidents of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl or the Chamber of Workers or opinions from the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have said that in many areas the Competition Act brings benefits to electricity users, brings transparency and ultimately ensures a more favourable power supply. But this law was passed on 6 June. ==References====External links== The assessment period ended at the end of June 2009. Since then, in other words for ten months, nothing has actually happened in this respect, and now we want to do so in the form of a constitutional provision. This too is a novum in this Parliament, because, it is precisely the debate, together with the ÖVP and SPÖ, that perhaps a two-thirds majority for the Constitutional Provision will also be possible if appropriate framework conditions are created, which have been referred to in this Act in principle, because they are useful. I therefore invite everyone to go this way with us. We will put forward a motion for a resolution which will also be distributed in writing, which will bring consumers more rights, more transparency and, as I have already said, more favourable electricity and more favourable gas. The motion for a resolution essentially contains four key points. The first key point is to speed up the change of providers. So far, it took months, often up to a year to change the provider. In view of the fact that large energy suppliers such as LINZ AG, like Energie AG, have increased the electricity price by 18, 19 percent at the beginning of the year, and at the very moment the debate with the association, which has also greatly increased the electricity price, it is necessary to enable consumers to switch to the supplier quickly, because this brings in Comparison of local providers and low-cost bidders, which can also be from Austria, with an average budget saving electricity of up to €200 per year. I think that's a lot of money. – So the change of supplier, which would in principle also be in the Competition Accelerating Act, which has been sent somewhere in the committees, is to be welcomed, and it must also be requested that this be done now. The second point: It's about more transparency, it's about more information for electricity and gas customers. The problem is easily explained: As a normal customer in Austria, you can hardly compare the electricity and gas bills or very, very difficult. This too comes from the EU, is ultimately to be carried out, must be enforced and we should do it. In this respect, we should not wait until autumn until we finally implement these EU standards, but we should do so as it is money that the consumer has to pay, which he has to pay too much, but which he could actually save. I therefore believe that it is necessary to adapt the electricity and gas bills quickly so that they are comparable so that standards are laid down and the pricing of electricity and gas prices becomes comprehensible. Interesting in this context is the fact that the Federal Competition Authority clearly states that these electricity and gas prices of the ETUs are largely illegal. So here in Austria, we have a state that is illegal in the accounts. – I think you should act here quickly. The third point is the transfer of electricity price reductions: We know that – and the head of the E-Control, Mr Boltz, has also noted – SMEs are paying a significantly higher electricity price in Austria. The President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, says that wholesale prices have not been passed on to SMEs. This is due to the fact that in July 2008 the wholesale price of a megawatt hour from 116 € to 68 € per megawatt hour This is almost half, and the SMEs had nothing to do with it. So I think that this process should be discontinued and that households and SMEs should be freed from these electricity price drivers. It is interesting that even the Chamber of Labour found that despite the electricity price reductions on the world market, the electricity price in Austria rose by an average of 5 percent. These are things you can't agree with. The last point, fourth point in the request: This is about the basket money that the energy suppliers put in for the recalculation of the eco electricity – we have already discussed this here in the house. These are, on average, around €77 million a year, which is a billion schilling in old, real money, which you only collect for calculating the eco electricity. There are no clear legal rules for this either. So I think you should put off this basket money and that it should also be legalized. In summary, our request is that we strengthen the competition to which, I think, everyone admits in the EU, and that we allow the discharge of electricity and gas customers through the possibility of a rapid, comprehensible exchange of suppliers and also through transparent electricity calculations. – The whole should be possible as soon as possible, i.e. with time limit 1. ==References== We call on the Minister for Economic Affairs to take the appropriate steps. One thing to conclude: If ÖVP and SPÖ think about it, although they do not know exactly how to increase taxes, but they are going to, then they should also think about how to make the gas and the electricity more durable for households and businesses. I therefore invite you to support this request by the BZÖ. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23558	The motion for a resolution which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, has been explained in detail in its key points, according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure distributed in the Chamber and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23691	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23712	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! - Very soon. Part one: They have a certain residue with templates that require a two-thirds majority. I would remind you that these questions have been instigated by the opposition parties without any link to other questions. I would therefore not like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for having thrown it overboard and for making a necessary adjustment, which is still in the interests of Parliament's control rights, in this area. We thus fulfil the obligation set out in Article 20 para. 2 second sentence B-VG results. We have not deliberately pre-regulated those parts – as a replica to the statements made by my previous speaker – which will be implemented anyway in autumn when the third directive is here. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes no sense for us to adopt new rules every six months in this area, because we are fighting the reverse problem, namely that the p.t. audience, namely the private electricity receiver, still has too little confidence to take advantage of the possibilities, changes far too little. If we change the regulations and the conditions every half year, we do not improve this situation. I think that the process, as we have discussed it in the Committee, is now this change and then, as soon as we have the EU legal requirements – and the Federal Minister has promised to come very quickly with a relevant presentation – to implement them, for the more reasonable form of doing so. At the electricity prices, the following note is allowed: Yes, of course, electricity markets are very, very delicate markets. And there is no question that, in all liberalisation efforts, these markets tend, of course, to achieve a certain degree, monopoly gains. And we also see one today – that is what the head of the e-control also said: It has no hand to do with price increases, such as recently in connection. There, too, the owner has to take responsibility to a certain extent. And my appeal to you, Mr Federal Minister, on this question – you are at the same time the General Assembly of the Group; at least you are a majority shareholder there, with usually 60 to 70 percent of the votes – is: Please make sure that not easy with letterers there are increases in the range of two-digit percentages, the basis of which is a fluctuation on the Leipziger Strombörse and which, as correctly implemented, actually do not find coverage in the primary energy sources in the hydroelectric or natural gas price development, even in the eco-strom. So it's not quite understood why the increase is coming. We should go after that. And I think it is a quite honorable task of the Parla- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23763	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23785	Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Whenever there is an item on the agenda on energy, it is time to look at the Austrian and European strategy. And, Minister, it is time again to talk about how the Austrian energy strategy continues. Now we have had the presentation of the energy strategy. This has shown that it is a strategy that we do not believe will be really targeting to bring Austria to the right energy path. There are too few liabilities. The financing has not been clarified. The measures are open. We have been talking about a climate protection law since 2008, but to this day we have nothing specific ahead of us. There is no bill, no plans, how to actually implement it. Furthermore, a very essential aspect, Mr. Minister, the fossil energy sources continue to play a major role in this future Austrian energy strategy. Now in April, in the “South German” there has been a very interesting analysis of European energy policy and the fact that various gas pipeline projects, such as the Baltic Sea pipeline, “Nabucco”, “South Stream”, play an important role in this strategy. But the question is: Is that the right way? And the article is entitled “Energy Supply – Russian Roulette”. A highly risky game, which is very much doubted that it will be a target in this form, and it even uses terms such as that these energy veins make Europe and the European economy really vulnerable, in the sense that it is very risky, politically and politically, and very much doubting that these billions of investments are targeted. On the contrary: It is made clear that, from the priorities and projects, resources should flow much better into renewable energies, into energy efficiency, rather than into these mammoth pipelines. – A clear analysis, a clear statement that takes into account the various aspects. In this respect, a study by the company consulting firm McKinsey is very well located, which is far from being particularly environmentally or climate-oriented – no, quite the contrary, this is an industrial and industrial-friendly think tank – which has also analysed here and where it comes out quite clearly – and it is quite exciting to mention this here – that Europe can switch its energy supply and, in particular, its power supply to renewable energy by 2050 to 100 percent, 100 percent on renewable energy in power supply! I think that this should also have an important role for Austria, but not until 2050, Minister. We know that in Austria we are in a privileged situation with regard to renewable energies, natural sources, and that we can use a lot of resources: from biomass on our doorstep, from hydropower to photovoltaics and, of course, wind turbines. The question is: Will it be used, and how can it best be used? And: Can this, in this form, be expected? – I say: Yes. McKinsey, too. is located, it is not only with today's technologies and with the foreseeable technologies – no dream dancers! – possible, and at low cost. So, Minister: I think it's long been time to say in Austria, too, we're on our way. And for Austria, it is realistic – this is what studies show – to achieve 100 percent of renewable energy supply by 2030. What we need to do is, of course, an essential point in the energy strategy package. This is very inadequate at the moment. The discussions are going on. In any case, one of the essential steps is to invest here in such forward-looking areas as photovoltaics. There are areas in Austria that are already showing regions across Europe, namely Upper Austria with a very interesting area – Mr Minister, you know it very well, our so-called Solar Valley around Eberstalzell. We will soon have the largest photovoltaic plant in Upper Austria, the start of construction. And we want to equip 10,000 roofs in addition to photovoltaic systems by 2015. So successful companies from Fronius to solar are involved in this, and they are driving the development forward. But what it takes – and you have to start thinking about it very intensively now – is the following: We need a new eco electricity law according to the German model in order to be able to create points and jobs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23846	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23867	Mr President. – I see, the Federal Minister has already been very enthusiastic and has already prepared an advisory agreement; the last negotiations are under way. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] In fact, in the coming years, we will face massive increases in energy costs – not only higher taxes and savings that each Austrian will face on average at €100 per month; but a rather large amount – the Austrians are still faced with the fact that now that the economic crisis has temporarily stopped a rise in energy prices, but it will no longer be so noticeable as a result of these effects, there will be a massive increase in energy costs. The private customer, the private household, can most certainly resist it. For example, if you think that a family might have built a house in the 1970s and now have to come out with a low pension, then it is clear that often the financial resources are missing to carry out the thermal renovation. That is why it was particularly important to support this thermal rehabilitation in the framework of the budget. World energy demand will rise by 20 percent over the next ten years. This is also a clear indicator of the need for fossil energy sources to become more expensive. And there was an interesting survey by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. There, 30 percent of entrepreneurs have stated that they expect a triple energy cost over the next 20 years. And precisely against this background, the regulatory authority has a very, very important role. The amendment of the Energy Regulatory Authority Act is a measure that we can support and will also support. – I should like to point out that: we have not supported this measure so far, because we have not supported two-thirds of the agreement with the other opposition parties. We are also faithful here, but now it is about equipping a sensible measure against which one really cannot have anything, even with the necessary majority of votes. The information law is ultimately imperative. This is also the case with the e-control itself. Of course, it must also be true that the Minister himself has a right of inquiry to see what is happening in the authority. The regulatory authority remains impartial and transparent, which is ensured. The institutions cannot be removed from their office by the Minister. – It is therefore obvious that we will also agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23925	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23946	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Of course, it is gratifying that we today can decide on these amendments to the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, including that we will receive the necessary two-thirds majority for that. With regard to the details, I can only join Martin Bartenstein, who has already said that we will implement the procedure that we discussed in the committee. Of course, the debate also offers a brief discussion of the international and national energy situation, because energy policy is undoubtedly one of the major issues for the future, where we have to respond to the different demands – on the one hand, economic necessity and on the other, environmental issues. Undisputed, this energy policy is at the top of the Federal Government's agenda. The global framework shows us that the EU's share of global energy consumption is just 15 percent. China, for example, consumes 17 percent, the USA consumes 20 percent. If you look more closely at the EU, it is so with the EU-27 that, of course, they are mainly energy from fossil energy sources. There is also an exception for Austria. It's much better in Austria. Austria has a large share of renewable energy. We are therefore in the fourth place in Europe. In order to keep our country at the forefront and to keep our energy-political future in shape, the Minister presented the Austrian Energy Strategy, one of the priorities being to increase energy efficiency. My previous speaker mentioned it: It is mainly about thermal renovation. As early as last year's economic package, the government has already taken over €100 million for thermal renovation and triggered €660 million for this in the economy of services. I think that's the right way. If we continue on this path that we are investing in thermal renovation – this corresponds to a lever of 1 : 6 – then we can set both energy policy and economic policy proper measures, an absolute profit for the economy and energy policy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e23989	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24013	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The E-Control is not only a regulatory authority but also an authority that needs to monitor the safety of Austrian power supply. It is not only about the price, but also about the quality of supply and the security of supply. This is also why, as I believe, it is a very important political ownership role that the Federal Minister will now assume... [[Abg. Weinzinger: You don't hear anything! A louder organ!]] – A louder organ, Mr. Colleague! I'll make an effort. I have just said that it is an important ownership role that the Federal Minister now holds with the e-control function, because e-control is not only a power regulation and price regulation authority, but also the political responsibility for how the quality of the electricity grid, the security of supply in Austria and the quality of the offers are to develop accordingly. We know that new technological challenges exist for network operators. Smart Grids, Smart Meters are topics that are being discussed intensively today, which can be brought into the realization phase in a few years. I therefore believe that it is a very important political ownership role of the Minister, because he must also ensure that the prices allow for the refinancing of these necessary investments in these new technologies, and also for the international electricity network, which has so far worked about as badly as or even much worse than the international railway network. In addition – which will be a major topic in two, three years – it will be that decentralized energy supply with small energy generation plants will become a topic. It will not be possible to prevent this politically either. In other words, the pressure to modernise the networks will increase and the money will have to be available for it. This is also a function that the regulatory authority has to deal with. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I wish you a good and responsible job in this role as owner. Please take into account the challenges facing us in the energy field! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24047	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24069	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President. My colleague Hofer has already explained that we will agree and also explain the content of this law. I would like to refer to Mr Gartlehner's speech. However, the Social Democrats, dear Kurt, will be very pleased if you vote here for such a price increase in the electricity sector: in the association by 16 percent more, and – the Minister was the last time even quoted in the newspaper – Linz AG increased by 18.9 percent, the EAG, so Energie AG has increased by 19.5 percent and Salzburg AG by 7.2 percent. I don't realize that a company like the association that belongs to the public sector, and makes 1 billion euros of profit, goes through these blatant price increases, and nobody says anything. I don't understand at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:We say what!]] We have an index of between 1 and 2 percent. I suspect that this is an indirect taxation of households, because the energy suppliers are mostly in public ownership, and there is a lot of money from households, and a lot of money. Who protects us from this? – E-Control obviously does not and the Federal Competition Authority probably does not. That's where I'm on the next subject. As I believe, Energie AG and Linz AG once agreed to merge to save on administrative matters three years ago. They didn't do that because they said: One belongs to the ÖVP, and the other belong to the SPÖ. But we're making a joint sales company. - They did. And with that they have the prices fully under control in the Upper Austria area. It is also commonplace, I say, that the union has said for years: We are the cheapest, we go out with 15 percent price advantage. – And now they reduce it to zero, and so they are just as expensive as everyone else. I also do not understand that, as now, one is inactive to Easter regarding mineral oil prices. In the case of petrol, diesel, fuels in general, there was 20 percent price difference between the period before Easter and after Easter. No one says anything about it. I miss any regulatory intervention, just as the Joint Committee did at the time. It wasn't as easy as it was at this time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If only we had these toothless authorities, then it would have failed, we'd get rid of them. Then at least the state saves these administrative funds. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24114	On a point of view, Minister of State Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24136	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grastaur, because I am talking about you right now – it does not belong to the item on the agenda – and because the fuel prices have been addressed: I would ask you to look at the situation of competence! The level of competence is the same as that of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but no other Ministry has a price regulation. There's no such thing as that. [[Abg. Graszeit: Unfortunately!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The liberal FPÖ wants price regulation?]] We did what was and was possible. We offer transparency as far as monitoring is concerned. On the other hand, it is clear: At the moment when demand is rising, prices are obviously also rising. We are not the only ones, but this is also happening in Germany. What we have made in the context of our possibilities of allowing at least once a day to change prices, has been brought before the Constitutional Court of Justice on the part of those concerned. We are now waiting for what the decision is there, and then we will see. No one is enthusiastic about this, but I would ask you to see the legal situation. The second thing on the agenda today is the Energy Regulatory Authority Act. A few issues have been raised. Although time has already advanced, the match will start soon, but I do not want to miss out on the most important points here. First of all, on the energy strategy: The guidelines of the Energy Strategy were presented. Mrs. Lichtenecker, you mentioned that we would not be comprehensive enough here and not comply with the relevant legislation on matter. A McKinsey study was also addressed. I'm just telling you: What the strategy is going on is actually alternative. There is only the possibility to work more efficiently and, on the other hand, to expand renewable energy. Only what you have addressed about the electricity, you should say that the electricity represents only 20 percent of the energy consumption. We are on our way to renewable energy, thanks to the water – that is to say – quite advanced. We are the fourth best within the EU, and this is difficult to top, because much more water is not available to us. And that we pick up and replace with photovoltaics is not possible in view of the technological situation. Even your model from Germany, which you constantly imagine, looks like it covers 0.6 percent of the energy consumption there with photovoltaics and that you have serious problems to finance it there. Have you not followed the discussion on how to make or no longer finance the funding? - That's this point. The question has also been asked – we are already getting a little closer on the subject – why and why we are not using this regulation with the third. make energy market liverization package. This is what Mrs Brunner has mentioned. This has a very simple background: Because this law is only now to be implemented. In my opinion, this will be done at the end or in the second half of this year. There are, however, precisely the points that concern the compound, for example, or all other energy producers. If the networks are to be separated from producers to a greater extent than before, if one can better shape the change of suppliers than before, then precisely these points are realized, which are also provided for in the Competition Act, which several of you have addressed. The second in this context is that we will also implement some of the regulations that then concern e-control, for example. But what we decide today has the background that we are actually obliged to do that until 31. ==References====External links== That was known a few months ago, so we are already in a bit of implementation. The background has been addressed several times and is easy to explain. On the basis of the recast of the Federal Constitutional Act, we have the obligation to provide for a supervisory right of the competent supreme body on non-orderly collegial authorities with judicial intervention. The E-Control Commission is such a regulatory authority and it is therefore necessary to lay down also the appropriate regulatory rules, namely this information law by our ministry. This is an improvement in the situation. If this is an improvement in the situation, then I can't actually understand – that's going towards the greens and also the BZÖ – why you don't carry it. Because in the final effect, you make more security when it comes to e-control decisions, no less, more security! If a little constitutionally challenged now, you might have withdrawn or insecured. That's why I'm saying: This improvement is an improvement that benefits the citizen. I am therefore very grateful that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also sees and supports this, because it provides for a qualitative improvement and otherwise nothing else in the context. What's going on is we're just going to change that. We will also implement some improvements together. Otherwise, I am glad that after a time when two-thirds of the majority have not been seen, this is obviously happening today, and I would be pleased if this would happen to other materials in our area, such as the implementation of the Services Directive. It is also qualitatively and objectively appropriate there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24191	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24212	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! The Federal Act, which amends the Energy Regulatory Authority Act, is a very short legal matter – at least what we change today – and yet an important story, because in the future it is about stimulating competition on the one hand and having a sustainable energy mix on the other. The crucial question is: We know very well, oil and gas are price-effective. The design of oil and gas prices is really not in our hands. The resulting prices, which we all have to pay, can be quite high and hurt us. The aim would be that the profits generated by this would serve to have on the one hand a sustainable energy mix in production, i.e. corresponding investments, and on the other hand, profits should serve to have a powerful network. So, mix and network must be the goals. They complain that the mineral oil companies, the fossil suppliers make too much money on us. I can only tell you one thing: The best answer to this is the energy from Austria. And the best answer is to use energy to create internal Austrian energy sources. Not for nothing, I have to point out: Today, of the Austrian own-energy plant, 44 percent is biomass. We can do a lot. We can continue along this path of hydropower, wind, biomass. Oil and gas will not be the future. I'm just telling you a number to conclude: If the barrel of oil becomes more expensive by 1 US dollar, this will burden our Austrian energy bill with €150 million. If the barrel of oil becomes more expensive by 1 US dollar, 150 million € of our purchasing power will go to Kazakhstan, to Russia, otherwise where and will not become economically effective with us. That means more money is simply gone for the same performance. And the best answer to this is: more efficiency, less consumption, domestic supply. The Energy Regulatory Authority Act will be an important building block that we will continue there. I would like to thank the FPÖ for the willingness to learn that she has gone back there.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24247	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24268	Mr President. Minister! High house! The SPÖ will not accept the motion for a resolution tabled by the BZÖ. That's what we're we are: We've heard it a few times anyway, but it doesn't hurt to hear it more often. Point one: Provider change in a maximum of three weeks. – This is one of the points that will be discussed and implemented in the Internal Market Directive. And we will see when it comes to voting on how important the consumer protection of the opposition is and whether it will vote in favour of the two-thirds majority. Point two: transparency of invoices and advertising material. - You have to look at that. For one, it is more transparent, for the other something different. But this is also one of the points that is being implemented in the Internal Market Directive. Point three: Electricity price reduction. – Of course, the Minister cannot intervene directly in the price, but he can, of course, take a picture of it by means of the supervisory law that we will now decide, and he can use other initiatives at other levels, for example on the connection, and so on. And on point four, eco-power conversion costs, so much to say, is that a resolution has already been tabled here, which provides for a novel of the Eco-Power Act by autumn. This is being negotiated, and then we will see the results anyway and then we will be able to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24310	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24332	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Energy supply, sustainable energy supply and safe energy supply is one of the key pillars of every economy. I believe, Mrs Lichtenecker, that we have an ecologically very competitive and exemplary energy supply and strategy in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker:... as green as your tie!]] We also have a corresponding energy-control authority – Mr Boltz is very much behind it, that he always shows the depths, as far as prices and other things are concerned. It also works: It is an insidious authority, and it should remain the same, no one can solve it. We only comply with a constitutional mandate: that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs must also be informed of what is going on in this authority, and that he can also inform us about it in Parliament. – We decide today. All in all, I believe, we have a very, very good energy situation in Austria, especially as regards the situation of renewable energy. Finally, I would like to thank the opposition parties, especially the liberals, very much for fulfilling their parliamentary responsibility again and for taking this very logical consequence with us and allowing for the decision of the two-thirds of the matter. Perhaps this will also be achieved by the Greens and the BZÖ. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24366	Mrs Lichtenecker spoke a second time. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24388	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A correction to the request made by the BZÖ and also to the comments made by Alois Grabauer It has been noted here that the electricity price increase by Energie AG and Linz AG is 18 and 19 percent respectively. That is not right in this form. The increase in electricity prices is 8.8 percent and 9.3% respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24417	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kuzdas. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24438	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: It is a necessary and important matter that we decide today, and it also strengthens Parliament's rights as regards the obligation to provide information. Since 2001 and 2002, electricity and gas customers have been able to switch suppliers. The fact is that it has so far been used to a very small extent. The causes are, I mean, diverse. One reason may be that the market is perhaps too little transparent, another reason why the invoices are hardly comparable. This has not only been the case in the past, but is still the case today. It is also a complex market. Another reason may be that the product portfolio of the suppliers is different – gas/power in different combinations – which also makes different combination tariffs necessary and makes a change of supplier more difficult. Different discount models also cloud transparency – free days, payment arrangements, paperless settlement and so on, all this makes the change more difficult. The E-Control has set up a tariff calculator on its homepage. I mean, that's an essential help in selecting a provider, but of course you won't come around talking to the future provider. Nevertheless, I mean, you have to think carefully about what time you make a change of supplier. The best or rather the worst example is the combination, which recently performed a huge customer acquisition, has gained 50,000 new customers, with a contract binding of twelve months, and now with 1. In May, there was a huge increase in tariffs. – Such a procedure must be stopped, and there is also a certain responsibility of the owner. Then: What helps the customer, the household of the contradiction? He can object for three months, but then he has to look for a new provider again. However, I also find some offers from providers when it comes to float rates – float rates with the indication that they are directly linked to stock exchange listings. This means that households may now supply themselves to the energy price speculators after they have been handed over to stock speculations. Whether the meaning and purpose of the exercise is, may be questioned. I think there is not only a need for more transparency in the market in order to increase competition, there is also a need to define the rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24482	Mr Riepl has been mentioned as the last speaker to be the President-in-Office of the Council. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24503	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Energy Control Commission – which has already been said – is independent. She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. lays down framework conditions and tariffs for electricity and gas grids, settles disputes between market participants – including –, grants permits and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is free of discretion and without supervision, and this is the reason why we are today taking the decision to introduce an appropriate prudential right for the Minister of Economic Affairs to comply with his obligation to provide information to Parliament. I think this is a good and reasonable solution. I don't share the concerns of the Greens. I believe that the Minister of Economic Affairs will be careful to break down the independence of the E-Control Commission, but that he will let it work as she has worked so far. This does not justify the concern from my point of view. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, but one thing I would like to ask you – if there is no answer to it today, then perhaps in the next few days – concerns what was previously criticised as regards owners' associations. That's what moves people: First, the composite society tries to recruit customers, and then, in fact, unmotivated, a pricing is done, in the face of which most people say that this is pure withdrawal. Now there's the possibility that you bought them that they're getting so much more expensive – I don't think so. Another situation might be that you are also a little angry about it – like me – that it works in this way. Or, third possibility – which I don't believe again –: You don't care. But an owner's office is already given, and that's why I'm saying: Some small statement from you sometime in the next few days might be appropriate. I think that would be a lot of people's expectations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24548	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 474 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Brunner, colleagues have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of this amendment, on the constitutional provision and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, referring to point 2. Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask those Members of the House who have given their approval for a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on paragraph 1 as amended by the Government's proposal. When I consent, I ask for a sign of confirmation. – This too is largely accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament on: Reduce energy prices, increase transparency, accelerate competition. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:52:01]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 1027/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues on the necessary arms trade control (659 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24656	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kurzmann spoke. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24683	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party will not support this initiative, and that has essentially two reasons. On the one hand, we do not want to further disadvantage domestic businesses – there are not many who are active in this sector – against foreign competition. And the second reason is: The current legal regulations – and we are convinced of this – are sufficient. There is here the Foreign Trade Act, but also the Arms Act 1996 which adequately regulates this matter. The introduction of an additional certificate, as the Greens demand, ladies and gentlemen, would lead us to believe only a further disproportionate administrative burden, precisely at a time when we are constantly considering streamlining the administrative structures but also reducing the administrative burden in all areas. We've been thinking about it. What can be the occasion for such a proposed new law? Where are the objective criteria? If you look at the statistics, you won't find them, because: If you look at the arms industry, you notice that the United States of America, with a volume of more than €547 billion, is going to present this list at Weitem; only far after that does Britain come with a volume of €59.7 billion, then China comes with €58 billion, and then the list goes on – there is nothing from Austria at all. And if you look at another list, namely the list of companies that are in the arms business, you will find the list leaders with Boeing and six other US companies. Far, far behind, French or English arms companies come. Also on this list Austria is under “remote running” or does not seem to be there at all. That is to say, this question plays a very subordinate role. And we liberals do not want to harm the few companies operating in this business against foreign competition. For a change of law, we lack the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24725	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24747	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This resolution, which was amended against the original request of the Green Members, concerns arms trade control. We call on the Federal Government or the Minister of Economic Affairs to give the National Council a novel of the Foreign Trade Act, which is practical. Therefore, we do not want to disadvantage anyone, to exclude anyone from competition, which is why final consumer certification should also be set to EU standards, so that there is no real distortion of competition. And the novelle should also provide that anti-firearms are goods subject to authorisation. The aim of this innovation is to avoid, as far as possible, grant gaps in the foreign trade law and to create effective end-user control in order to ensure effective protection of human rights, particularly in crisis areas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that illegal uses are not to be avoided by certification, but it is a way of closing the gaps more and more. I would therefore like to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24777	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24798	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, a serious issue, and no one wants to see terrorists or other fighters with weapons on any scene in the world – no matter where they come from, Mrs. Hagenhofer – go against innocent people. I think that's a general consensus. The question is: How do you do that? And I say to you quite honestly, there are many possibilities, especially at international level: that you control more closely that you take a closer look at various companies that are known, that you act more closely against organizations that use such things accordingly, and that not only because perhaps a great power means that you are friends, we look at them a little less, and at the others we look more, then say that everything fits, because this is internationally blessed that you are measuring with two different dimensions. But then here, just because the Greens have made a request to say that you have to follow the mainstream, and here is a real – apologise, Mrs Hagenhofer – to say goodbye to a stupid request so that peace is and you don't have to argue, that's a little bit to address this problem. Firstly, and I am now starting from the Greens' motion for a resolution: This is about the Foreign Trade Act, not about war material – because you said yes: Weapons. So it's not about storm guns, machine guns, whatever, it's not about war material, it's about small weapons, guns, other guns. And – and this is interesting – the Greens now want to include the so-called marginal weapons, i.e. small caliberg rifles – including sports weapons. That's great! In practice, I imagine that every sport weapon you want to bring abroad is subject to an approval obligation. And if that comes into a country, perhaps to a competition or to some trade fair, and happens by chance as it once happened – I have an example in memory of Great Britain when they took part in the Iraq war and the foreign minister then proclaimed the case of neutrality; that is not so long ago – then you must not spend weapons there. That is, these sports weapons will remain in Austria. Now you can say that it doesn't matter, and it's not as dramatic, but how you want to prevent somewhere in Africa, Asia, Latin America or elsewhere where terrorists and some gangs use weapons, I'm honestly a mystery. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] If the Greens say here that an Austrian soldier could be shot by a militia with an Austrian weapon, I think, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian soldier will in any case not matter what weapon he is shot with. We just hope he's well-equipped so he can defend himself. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] We often have the case, and that would be our demand: It would be useful to look at this in Europe at last, because that is also a question of economic competition, because the Swiss, Swedish and Finnishs have much less restrictions than we, especially in practice. They then do business as we produce the appropriate bureaucracy – and I have to say that both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs are trying very hard to do this pragmatically. But they are now being overburdened again with additional bureaucracy, although we have been considering this morning how to reduce bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to see what has been done in this resolution. By the way, the Greens would like to see it checked on the spot to see if that's all right. Do you know international law, Mrs Korun? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Don't be so schoolmasterly!]] Do you believe that in practice it is possible for an Austrian official to go to the police station somewhere – no matter where that is: America, Great Britain or other places – and says So, greeting God, I come from the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Interior and I now want to control your service weapons along with the numbers, whether they are really those that we have approved accordingly, or whether you have done something else with them?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] [[New call for tender May. Korun]] – Well, that’s really weird! That is why this resolution is a very nice trick, because it says that “as far as possible” it is made this way – as far as possible! You know it's not possible, and that's why it's a placebo. It is only, I honestly say, that we should not be here for placebos, but rather discuss and decide really sensible measures, and there are some of them in this area that could be discussed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24865	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24886	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you should leave the church in the village during the whole discussion. The It is not an initiative against the existing arms law, it is not an initiative against property law – it is a good Austrian law that we have. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] What is a motion for a resolution that has been weakened? – Mr Scheibner referred to the possibilities of control abroad. We also have the same international view, which is why we have tabled an amendment. This is about the fact that, when arms are exported under the Foreign Trade Act, opportunities are specified to check whether they come into the right hands, because I think we all believe: If weapons come into the wrong hands, they're dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, there are statistics that 740 000 deaths each year are to be complained of by so-called illegal or illegal weapons – not from Austria, but worldwide – which is why UNESCO and former UN Secretary-General Annan also pointed out that such control would have to be carried out. Now, with this motion for a resolution, Mr Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner requests to develop criteria within the framework of his ministry that may as far as possible prevent arms from being exported illegally – i.e. without the notice of the owner, without the buyer’s notice. – I don’t know why the excitement here is so great, because I think we’re all in favour of the fact that there are no illegal arms exports. If someone is legally exporting hunting weapons to a hunting company somewhere, this will of course continue to be permitted and permitted in the future. But if it turns out that there are certain sources here, especially in areas of civil war, which are piled up in Africa and elsewhere, then, I believe, there is already a need for caution, and there should be something for all of us, including from the point of view of human rights, so that we can prevent it. Whether we can completely prevent it, I doubt it too, but we should take measures that make it extremely difficult. Because America and England were mentioned before: Yeah, well, these are not good examples. We have also launched the initiative for the control of anti-personnel mines here – you certainly remember it. Now many countries have jumped up there, and now it is suddenly possible that these or even the scatter mines are banned. We have recently also had a discussion on the ban on nuclear weapons. Now there are negotiations between America and Russia for the first time to get out of general. – We know this is a long way, a thorny path, but you have to start. That is how I think this initiative should be seen: that the Federal Minister is looking at all of this. It will draw up proposals which, of course, go into the review, and there all concerned are asked and all those concerned are invited to cooperate. And then we will discuss here in Parliament whether we agree to this proposal – I assume that it is so that we can all agree. Nobody – nobody, ladies and gentlemen! – wants to discriminate against the Austrian arms trade, or to throw a blow at him, but here, I believe, we have an opinion on the illegal export of arms – where it does not belong – we must, I believe, all be against it. That's what it's all about! Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end. We have elections on Sunday, and the ÖVP will be asked there and there: What are you doing? – These are the voters’ weapons, so I am on the subject: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Fit to the topic!]] The gun of the voters is the poll. I'm bringing a four-liner now. [[Abg. May. Kogler: For the weapon you need a waffle!]] Mr Kogler, watch out! – so you know how we'll all vote. Good people suffer great pains: How do the blacks choose in the elections? We don't want to torture them any longer: We will certainly choose wisely.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24958	Mrs Mag. Korun is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e24980	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, I could now ask my previous speaker to express it a little more precisely so that we can distinguish whether “wise” or “white” has been said, but I will not. [[Abg. Großruck: With round s: wise!]] In any case, it would be useful for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to go into it again before the next election. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Back to our motion for a resolution and the Committee report from the Committee on Human Rights: It is a fact that Austria is one of eight top exporters of small arms. It is also clear that small arms are actually the real weapons of destruction of our time. – Not only am I saying that, but in 2001, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan already said that. In this respect, it is not entirely irrelevant – for all statistics, which have also been noted here – for Austria to be one of eight top exporters in the field of small arms, and in so far as we do not care – not the Human Rights Committee and, hopefully, rather not the Austrian National Council – where these weapons finally land and against whom they are directed: whether they are used in armed conflicts, in war-bearing countries by armed militias, for example, against the civilian population. It is all the more gratifying that the majority, the majority of Members in the Human Rights Committee, have succeeded in joining our lead that the majority in the Human Rights Committee has said: Yes, there are gaps in the current foreign trade law, and these gaps should be closed! I would just like to mention a little bit in detail, namely the case with the so-called edge firearms: The technical development also does not stop with the weapons, as you can imagine, and the so-called anti-firearms, which were classified as non-life threatening a few years ago and were therefore not mentioned as eligible goods in the Foreign Trade Act, are now technically so far developed – unfortunately, one has to say – that you can, for example, penetrate bulletproof West by police officers and have fatal consequences. It is all the more gratifying that with this request, the Greens – in a slightly modified form – will succeed, hopefully, then to have a novel in the National Council, to be declared as eligible goods with the firearms. It is all the more important that, at last, a final consumer certificate is finally provided and also defined, which must include this final consumer certificate in terms of criteria. It is just as important that there is such a thing as a goods entry certificate with the end-user that, so to speak, the granting ministry can find out where the weapons really landed. It would also be equally important to carry out on-the-spot final consumer controls. For us, it is a advertising drop that the government fractions have virtually deleted two important points in our proposal with an amendment request. This is once the transmission of the serial numbers of the exported weapons. In our opinion, this would be necessary in order to have effective control, otherwise, in case of suspicion, the Ministry would have to contact the arms exporter and ask him to report the serial numbers. – I probably do not need to explain what the arms exporter will then think: there is just a reasonable suspicion that research is being carried out – and that is not necessarily the best condition for research. Second point, which is no longer included: random checks on the spot. Yeah, we're on this. If it is not only the US, but also Sweden, which is not known to be a great world power, to provide in the arms trade that the exporter is obliged to carry out random checks on the spot, then it could be possible to do so in Austria. Although these two points, which were included in our original motion for a resolution by the Greens, are no longer included in the Committee's report, we will nevertheless agree to this report, because we believe that those changes that will come are nevertheless a big step in the right direction, so that effective, not only as far as possible, but hopefully also really complete, control of arms trafficking is finally implemented. In this sense, thank you to the Members who will vote in favour of the Committee's report, a thank you also to Mr Mitterlehner, who clearly recognises the need to change the current foreign trade law. And: In the sense of improving human rights, this is a big step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25033	Minister of State Dr. Mitterlehner has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25071	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that the Foreign Trade Act is being modernised, but it does not require this resolution, but there is also the obligation on the part of the European Union to implement EU acts. And in this context, it is necessary to adapt the legislation accordingly, and I should also like to point out that our practice of arms exports is just as moving in the system as is the case with other EU countries – and essentially that is also the same with neutral Switzerland. I would like to point out that the question that has now been raised several times, as is the case with the anti-firearms, even with arms exports, can only always be about preventing illegal – and not legal – trade with weapons. [[Complementary of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] It should also be noted that this is an important part of the export activity of several Austrian companies. That is why we have stopped – the word “as good as possible” as possible – to implement a corresponding regulation, which, as it were, takes both elements into account. When it comes to addressing human rights violations with weapons from Austria, I must say: There, the statistics and what we have in terms of documents have never shown that there would have been such violations. And once there was a use of weapons from Austria, one could subsequently find that these were simply criminal acts. That is to say, it is not because there were control gaps or a lax authorisation practice in us, but it was simply so that the end consumer, as a result of a criminal act, did not use the weapon as it was intended. I would like to point out once again what Mrs Korun said about complete final consumer control: In Austria, we already have relatively strict approval criteria as regards final consumer control. The current application form for an export licence already requires a final declaration, in the original case. The question with the copies, which were also addressed in the Committee, has been clarified, because that must be recorded in the original. On the question of mandatory on-the-spot control, it should be said that the territoriality principle, but also practical reasons, namely limited human and financial capacity, make such final consumption control impossible. We cannot compare ourselves with the United States of America, which in this respect have quite different possibilities. We have looked at the Swedish model, which de facto is quite similar to what we are now implementing in Austria. That is why I believe that this motion for a resolution is quite useful in supporting the efforts that have already been made to bring about a timely and necessary revision of the Foreign Trade Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25125	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25147	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up a small aspect of Mr Korun's speech, namely the issue of small arms, which are small because they are built in such a way that they can also use children. We know that every year there are thousands of children who are tossed away from their families who are forced into the front in armies, especially in poorer countries – and where, so to speak, these children serve as cannon feed and are also abused as sex slaves. These children will be taken every future perspective in very, very young years, even every future at all. In the north of Uganda, I once had the opportunity to talk to a girl who managed to flee an army from the Lord's Resistance Army. This girl was 13 years old, was HIV positive, had two children – and in general she had already finished with her life. This girl had a life setting like a 50-year-old. And to such a personal destiny, the problem often also arises that these children are forced to perform cruel violent rituals of violence to their close relatives, to friends, for example, to cut off these body parts and more. Because of this torture, these children have such a high level of aggression that many members of their families, from their former communities, are afraid of them, so that it is not easy for those who are able to get out of there the more family connection. These children have infinitely difficult to find back into their original social structures. If this motion for a resolution, as far as the prevention of the illegal trade in small arms is concerned, is a step forward, I think it is an extremely important step. And: Anyone who wants to do business with such small or other weapons is self-evident anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25187	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25208	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is acting faster in this case than our motion for a resolution here in Parliament actually refers to the quality of our Minister for Economic Affairs. Only a note on the peripheral firearms, on the small arms up to 5.6 millimeters of caliber or on the final consumer certificate: In principle, this is an extension – the Federal Minister has already said this – a modern and modern adaptation of the Foreign Trade Act. This also preserves the balance, and the fear is not that the export-oriented arms economy in Austria would be restricted accordingly. This is just a contemporary adaptation and addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25239	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25262	Madam President. Minister! High house! I believe that the finding of many experts that illegal trafficking in weapons is one of the main reasons for human rights violations and violations of international law must be given far more importance than has been the case so far. A complete system of final consumer control, as required, is essential to this. The obligation to grant the right to border firearms is also indispensable, because these small weapons that are often impoverished – we have heard it several times today – kill thousands of people every year. Strict authorisation criteria and strict end-user control as well as severe sanctions in case of non-concentrational use are essential. As final consumer controls are very difficult to carry out in practice and are also financial expenditure, they must be done precisely to ensure the effective protection of human rights. In order to counter illegal arms trafficking even more effectively, these end-user controls should be confirmed not only by a national law but also by international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25299	Mr Glaser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25321	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the sense of this proposal for a better control of arms trafficking, we are of course committed by the Austrian People's Party to a better final consumer control. I would also like to point out that it is not just about weapons, but about products that can be used both peacefully and militaryly. As we have already heard, we are working on an appropriate innovation of the Foreign Trade Act. In general, on the discussions in the Human Rights Committee, I would like to point out that there is a lot of ideology and fantasy being discussed with good words. The high intentions in honour, but I believe that we should also try to bring our desire and potential into better harmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25348	Mr Kirchgatterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25369	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the end of the Cold War, the number of war conflicts has declined worldwide. Unfortunately, there has been a negative turnaround – a significant increase – since 2005. In more than two dozen states, there is the highest risk of political instability and armed conflict. Many conflicts that have swerved for years or decades are hardly seen in Europe; they are often permanent crises. The causes of these conflicts are diverse. It is also about resources such as diamonds, oil or precious wood. To the main sufferers – that has already been mentioned – the civilian population is becoming more and more. What the most democratic states are doing now, what the international organizations are doing, we are asking ourselves. Clearly, clear rules and clear decisions and controls on arms supplies are also essential. Today's application is intended to further develop Austrian regulations positively. In addition, it is also important to support the efforts to achieve, together at European level, high standards in all democratic countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25409	Mr Eßl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25430	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Weapons are a brilliant topic, weapons are a serious issue, and that is why we should discuss it with special care. It has previously been mentioned that Austria is a weapons exporter, one of the largest in the world. In principle, I do not think this is bad, because finally and finally it means jobs in Austria. However, we already have to distinguish: First: Which weapons are we talking about that are exported? Are these guns? Are they weapons of war? Further: Which area are they exported to? Is this a crisis area, or are the buyers stable countries? Last: Who is the recipient? For what use is the weapon purchased? Of course, the big goal is to stop illegal trade accordingly. In this respect, there are a few problem areas that are improved. The control gaps cannot be completely excluded. We're good, but we can get even better. Especially in the case of abuse, it is not possible to completely exclude the control gaps. The small-calibre edge firearms are currently not included. The aim of this application is to adapt the foreign trade law accordingly, so that an effective and as far as possible complete system of final consumer control can take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25476	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25498	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The control of the arms trade is important. As a neutral state, Austria is on the one hand a member of the five main multilateral export control bodies, on the other hand we are already very well established in the national field through the existing Foreign Trade and War Materials Act. By adopting today's proposal, we ensure that the non-obtained anti-firearms are included in the future foreign trade law. This Act regulates and normises, in particular, the legal framework for the import, export, transit and mediation of goods, software and technology, particularly in those areas relating to national regulatory competence. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Already today, many criteria have to be examined prior to an authorisation for the export, transit, mediation and national agreement of dual-use goods or military goods. Among other things, it is necessary to comply with or take into account the following criteria: First: compliance with international obligations and agreements; Furthermore, any use of the goods for the manufacture of ABC weapons or internal revisions in the country of destination; the situation in the country of destination, Conflict voltage, aggression between the country of destination and other countries, It is also important to take into account the interest of the internal and external security of Austria. In summary, it is noted that the authorisation is to be granted only if compliance with the criteria just mentioned is ensured by continuing obligations. The application for a decision today is therefore on a good and viable basis. If we go in the right direction, we shall vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25553	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25574	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been discussed and carried out here that Austria plays a role in the global arms trade and in the production of weapons. That's an economic factor. We're a arms exporter, we're producing weapons. That's the reality! All the more, it is also a duty for us to comply with the international rules of the game and also to lay down rules, together with the EU and the UN, to do our homework and to be particularly exemplary. With the Committee's proposal now before us, we are taking a step in this direction to improve the control of arms trafficking. It also includes the category of so-called edge firearms. In this context, I would like to reply to Mr Scheibner. – Mr Scheibner, you have criticized this. If we see, as Mrs Bayr has said, how many people, especially child soldiers, are being equipped with these weapons in the Third World, how much suffering and how much misery it causes, especially with the children, we must also be concerned that this category of weapons, which has now been implemented, is one of the largest groups of weapons of mass destruction in the world, should be strongly limited to this proposal as a Republic. Austria may take a small step towards a world with a little less weapons, towards a more just world with less suffering for children, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25607	As probably the last speaker for today, Mr Riepl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25628	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to control arms trafficking: with us, in the European Union, indeed everywhere in the world. We have control. I think we can also say that we have good control, but even good control can be improved. The motion for a resolution on which we shall now vote goes exactly in this direction. I do not think it is wrong to point out once again that the initiative on this item on the agenda has taken place from the Greens and that we have shown by the government parties that reasonable issues, reasonable initiatives are majority in this House, even if they come from the opposition. The problem is illegal arms trafficking – and we are not likely to do so with this motion for a resolution either. Anyway, that's a problem. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] [[Deputies Grosz and Hagen: Bravo, he has recognized it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck has challenged me with his four-liner, and I would therefore like to conclude by saying: The big truck calls for the way in which no one needs to be tormented for a long time – for wise is the one who agrees with reason, so that Austria continues to gain prestige. And I guess that's all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25681	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no need for a final word from the report. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 659 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. [[The SPÖ delegates only stand up in isolation from their seats.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, you! Poor! Poor!]] Some times it would prove useful to pay a little more attention to the votes. [[Congratulation and bravorage at BZÖ.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. (E 92.) The agenda is exhausted. [[21:33:05]] Inflow I announce that in today's session, the self-employed applications were submitted 1084/A(E) to 1096/A(E). Questions 5077/J to 5116/J were also raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-04-21-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00060_d8e25734	The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 21.34 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
