ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3933	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 64. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 60 and 61. Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References====External links==* Official website Meeting of 22. In April 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Schüssel, Mag. Korun, Mag. Honey, Pack, Dr. Königshofer and Haberzettl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3964	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is appointed by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Beatrix Karl. In addition, I would like to announce the representation of a member of the Federal Government who is present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Women and Public Service Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek is represented by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures. [[10:31:38]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4027	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:31:50]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4214	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request urgent consideration of the written question No 5217/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning 'Higher taxes on barrels without soil'. The urgent request will be made at 1.30 p.m. I announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 11:30 to 4:00. Before I interrupt the meeting, I would like to point out that there are places reserved for those Members who have applied for the historic meeting room – at 11 a.m. Since today's meeting, it could be that some of the Members will participate even though they are not registered. To that extent, I'm trying to understand that some of you may not have to sit down in the hall, but on the top of the gallery. . I would also urge you to have taken the places at 10:45 a.m. at the latest. I shall interrupt the sitting until 1.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4262	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:30:26]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on ‘Higher taxes on barrels without soil’ (5217/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4300	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 5217/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4605	I now give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as the first questioner to justify the question. The reason for the request shall not be longer than 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4627	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ has undertaken to request that a special meeting be convened in an important matter not to be underestimated. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - I know there's some unrest in the ÖVP. But if one throws out so nonchalant and almost billions by the window, I say that these are the billions, ladies and gentlemen, who have to pay the taxpayers and not the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we have also asked, in the responsibility of the Group of the House, to convene this special meeting, because it cannot be done to deal with all the representatives of the people who hold the interests of the country and the people of the High House. All possible institutions are asked by the Minister of Finance to help them – such as the banks, for example. But who, my dear ones? Ladies and gentlemen, will never be questioned or asked? – These are the taxpayers, these are the citizens of Austria who are always asked to cash out when it comes to helping banks and pushing banks into billions so that they can do their business. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The whole of the European Community and the euro area are facing a very important test. The reason for this was the financial and banking crisis, which resulted in an economic crisis. And there are links for both major crises, including those that we are discussing today, for example, Greece. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In both cases, the taxpayer must pay the invoice. [[Call the SPÖ: In Carinthia too!]] In both cases, the taxpayer has to get into the treasure, get into his wallet so that we can save and cut from the gallows in the first place, which actually bear the responsibility for the financial market and speculation crisis, for the banking crisis and for the economic crisis that we have to pay dearly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Many citizens of our country wonder: How can such a thing happen at all? How can such a thing happen at all? – This is not a populist statement and not a populist question. That is the question, ladies and gentlemen, who will get you asked when you go to the street. People ask you what they can do to ensure that billions of euros are invested in the banks and put in order to save them – at the expense of taxpayers! This is the question that is asked daily by the politicians of our country. We want to learn today, as Mr Finanzminister intends to do, why he protects the speculators, why he protects the banks, why he is willing to continue to extend this fatal pyramid game, which is going to take place here, and to promote it with the support of taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen! This has already been seen by José Sórrates, the Portuguese Prime Minister. No one understands why billions can be made available overnight, but it takes months, even years, until the European Community or the members of the euro zone can get through to create a speculation tax. No one understands! We have been discussing this financial transaction or speculation tax for many years, but nothing goes on. Nothing goes on to this day! There is no decision, although this would be the answer to the fact that the speculators finally put the craftsmanship and ask them to check out, but also to prevent these speculations, that we protect the euro and that our financial markets remain clean, even as the securities arrive. [[OBJECTIVES]] But in all these areas, the European Union has clearly failed and cannot get through to introduce a speculation tax. We from the BZÖ have made the proposal to set up a separate currency fund with a speculation tax. This currency fund, ladies and gentlemen, would have been available after two years to ward off these speculations against the euro. After two years, we'd be ready to defend ourselves. Or: This speculation tax could also have financed a European rating agency, whereby we have been complaining for many months that the US rating agencies are responsible for the execution of these speculations at all and that this opaque system is finally dissolved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Euro governments have failed. They have not made any really effective decisions. Brussels has looked away and has been pulled over the table by the bank managers. And the honesty should also be addressed today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The honesty is that this aid measure for Greece is also the Bank Saving Package II; once again, it will help banks to pay taxes on taxpayers. [[BZÖ and Abg. Grainy.]] If you remember: It was the Minister of Finance who said after a banking summit: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what an alternative do we have? We have no alternative! We are now giving €2.3 billion in the form of a financial aid to Greece, and for this our banks do not have to give up €5 billion! – That's what you've been talking about. The truth is that this was again a measure to make the banks, the debtors, the speculators the wall and to provide them with funds again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about Greece, it is now about the euro zone, but it is also about the whole European Community. As long as our debt increases more than the tax revenue or the economy, as long as the euro will be speculated and so long as we remain under the fire of the speculators and attack target number one of US investment banks and hedge funds trying to soften the euro as a hard currency. And we see that too: The desire to attack the so-called PIGS states – Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain – is great. Just, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Now speculation is about to start against Portugal. The speculators have already been removed from Greece and focus massively on Portugal and Spain. However, if Spain is true, then the euro and the European Community are history. And that is why it is so important to deal with this issue in an elementary and content way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's clear, too: This aid package, which you want to link now, Minister of Finance, is a barrel without soil! Every day we learn from the media that Greece with these €110 billion will find no results. Today we learn that it may be €150 billion to pay in the end. And this is not all yet, if you know that Eurostat Director General Radermacher complains that only in the middle of this year will the figures, data and facts be available to have an assessment of what Greece actually is doing. You're on the blind again, Minister of Finance! They burden the Republic with €3.2 billion in new debt. Indebtedness increases at the expense of taxpayers. And this is an irresponsible act, a self-evident act which you have put here, where you have promised both the IMF and the euro area funds for which you have no authorization, Minister of Finance. This has therefore been a desperation act without legitimacy and without the consent of the National Council. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's not all. It doesn't stick to these €2.3 billion, we know. The IMF is forced to increase its use of resources, which will also meet the Austrian National Bank with €3.4 billion, where everyone asks how it can be that the ECB does not buy government bonds from the euro countries. Why does the ECB not do this directly, as is the case in the USA? Why do banks always have to be interconnected to do the big business, which means that the euro countries will have to pay more interest? Then it also happens – and this is the outcome of all these events and this chaos – that ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet addresses things correctly and says: We need a new pact, the euro zone needs to be renewed! Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly the point, so we also address this and say: It's wrong if you go here now and open Greece's door and gate and give the Greeks billions. It would be fair and important to choose the other options that Greece still has, namely the option of either going to its own currency, or those that we prefer to make a second euro, a Euro light, a Med Euro, a Euro for the PIGS countries, for the countries concerned that have not yet met the criteria to ensure a really tough euro. This would be the most meaningful, national-economically acceptable way of favoring and implementing it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We do not want to exclude Greece. We do not want to exclude Greece! Greece, like all the Club countries, like all Mediterranean countries, should remain a member of the European Community. We also do not want to show them the door, but we must tell them the truth and strengthen them in that they take the path of self-health – but they are self-determined and convinced and not to get something out of the European Member States with criteria and measures that they themselves cannot implement and finance, ladies and gentlemen. At the hour, a general strike is taking place in Greece, and it is not possible to see what consequences it will have. Because the people in Greece will not be involved in these cuts, this restructuring plan has failed and will not be feasible. It's a barrel without a floor. It is a barrel without soil, and this is also a reason why the Austrian taxpayer does not understand it. I do not hope, Minister of Finance, that today you will resort to your predecessor's choice of words and say that this financial injection to Greece is a business for Austria. I hope that you will not say this today and take a distance from this populist statement and rather consider the fact that Austria already has a huge debt of € 230 billion, ladies and gentlemen. 230 billion € is the obligation of Austrian taxpayers. Many will say: Well, it's only 200 billion €! But remember that we also have to include the liability for the ASFINAG and for the ÖBB! It is therefore incomprehensible to me how the Minister of Finance can turn ads on with the text: “That’s why we need to reassess debt now – and not increase further.” Mr Finanzminister, the moment you turn these ads on, the debt is rising again. That's an ad on pump, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the debt of €23900 per born Austrian, which you mention here, has been obsolete for a long time, because we already have over €30 000 in debt per citizen, ladies and gentlemen. That is, the newspapers can't print ads as fast as the debt mountain in Austria is growing, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is objectionable and an increase of the taxpayer that you even trust to place such ads. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that this information policy of the Federal Government is a blinding of the facts. They blind the people with your arguments you choose. The truth is, this aid measure for Greece is a help to the banks, is a help to the soccer teams, is a help to the speculators, my dear ladies and gentlemen. And the taxpayers in our country have no understanding of this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What we need is not help for the banks, but the help of the banks to bring Greece back to health. The banks can make a contribution there – but you are making a contribution to the banks by ensuring that they get their loans. The banks, which are also responsible in this profit-making effort for Greece's position as it stands, are to contribute in the form of a re-indebted or a debt-debt. This would be a way to get Greece back on the path to health. That also says one of your economic researchers, one who really trusts something, one who has the courage to address the real problems of the Republic and also points to what matters, namely IHS Chief Felderer. There are only a few in this republic, which are not red or black, who do not take a leaf in front of the mouth – and IHS-chef Felder is such a person. Because he's just in front of the pension, he also dares to address things properly. And Felder says: There is only the possibility of re-indebtedness for Greece, then there are clear, affordable consequences for Greece. He goes on to say: Any other form of action is a burden for the Republic, for Austria. He favors the health process of Austria by saying that we can reorganise our budget deficit through reforms. Ladies and gentlemen! There are only a few who have the courage to make such proposals in this Republic. Before you come back to the Hypo Carinthia, Mr Vice-Chancellor, or to the situation in Carinthia, I would like to say something: I know exactly that's your line of argument number one that you choose. That is why I will tell you immediately before – Continue these remarks –: Remember that you are in charge in Carinthia yourself, always remember that your ÖVP party head Martinz in Carinthia is responsible for the hypo and for the debacle, that he himself is sitting on the Supervisory Board and that it was ultimately his tax advisor, Mr. Birnbacher, who is responsible for this deal that has collected these millions! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also an ÖVP disaster, ladies and gentlemen, who have been identified here. I ask you to finally go out with your CSI, fix the responsible ones and bring them behind the castle and bars, to inform us that you are telling us here, too, which of these investigations is already worth reporting, whether there are any accusations. You don't even know what actually happened in this hypo swamp. [[Abg. Petzner: Hypo Lower Austria!]] And if you take the word “hypo” into your mouth well and gladly, you also say “Hypo Lower Austria”. Also speak of “Hypo Lower Austria”! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Speak of the fact that your head of state Pröll in Lower Austria has speculated 1 billion € in housing promotion, that even since the responsibility for a giant disaster is to be sought! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The so-called Uncle Hypo!]] And blame for a debacle not always others! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are for Austria, we are for Greece and for Europe. However, we are opposed to financial assistance on that path which you have chosen, Minister of Finance, and we are in favour of asking Greece to take a self-determined, self-health path. And: Banks that have earned very well in recent years must give up some of their claims. That is good for Austria, that is good for Greece, and that is good for the European Community.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4817	To answer the urgent question, Mr Vice-Kanzler, Federal Minister for Finance, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4838	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, we face enormous challenges. These are very crucial days not only for Greece, but also for Europe and thus for Austria. And there is a fundamental task that we have to do in these days, that the miseries of Greece are not becoming the mister of Europe and thus not the mister of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Greece – this is what we see today – has lived for decades and decades over its conditions, while the European Union has also brought all of us behind the light. It makes me angry, and it does, I think, everyone must help in such a phase where it is more than Greece, and at the same time know that in recent years and decades, Greece's policies have always thought of spending and have never taken the right steps on the revenue side, never put the saving in the foreground, but the careless spending, which is why Greece is at the tip today. And the result is, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bucher, we are faced not only with a serious situation in Greece and in Europa today, but with a very serious situation when it comes to stabilising the euro, our common currency. Ladies and gentlemen! Greece itself and – I do not hide it because it is also an important issue for the future – speculators in recent weeks have caused the situation in which we are today that Greece no longer has market access to finance its own public debt. As a result, the Greek crisis has also become a test for the euro and a test of probation for Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also grateful to the BZÖ for these honest words in the urgent question. I quote the first sentence from the question you are asking me today: "The key question is not whether Greece needs to be saved or not, but how it is most useful."Yes, that is the point. And I am very grateful to you for making it clear that you are concerned about the question of “how” – there you can discuss everything, and I will also present the key points – and even put you out of dispute that we need to help. I take note of this kindly in the sense of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also saying, especially here in the house, I think we should discuss this very openly, because that is the hour of responsibility to be taken over, and not the hour of populism. And I'm not going to take the Hypo Alpe-Adria into my mouth now and assign it to a party. Only to address the framework when we discuss what risks and what sizes are involved: We will have to assist the Greeks with approximately €2.3 billion of credit over three years. [[Abg. Street: 6.3 billion!]] The ten-fold risk was the Hypo Alpe-Adria before we saved it for the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us never forget the magnitudes, even in this context, from a responsibility that we have in common! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the question of inability to pay and the alternatives must be asked. Many say, let's let Greece go down the stream as an alternative. Today, we have agreed – I have already referred to the request – that Greece should be saved. What would be the alternative? And you have to discuss this in times like this. There is the alternativelessness of the process of the euro zone. An inability to pay Greece alone would have cost Austria at a price of €5 billion, in the event of insolvency. [[Abg. Street: And now we pay 6.3 billion with the National Bank!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Raiffeisen party should have paid the black Raiffeisen!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If Greece had further destabilised the euro zone that would have brought the euro to the brink of the single currency, a breakdown would mean that we would have threatened a national economic loss of between €20 and €40 billion and thus thousands and hundreds of thousands of jobs, that we would have experienced an economic breakdown of 0.3 to 0.4 percent. This cannot be done for Europe, and it cannot be done for Austria either. And that is why the salvation and support for Greeks, Greece alternatively, ladies and gentlemen, are. [[Abg. Kickl: Exactly!]] [[Ironic cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ideasless, “Greedless, ” hopeless!]] But before – and this is a central point, and it will still concern us in the debate in Europe and in the euro zone – the money flows, namely €80 billion from the European Union, €2.3 billion from Austria as a credit volume, the Greeks have to take on massive cuts. This is a fundamental requirement which I do not place here, but which the Greeks have to fulfil, and we as the finance minister of the euro area have to guard that the Greeks are working out these requirements on point and point, even though general strikes are threatening, even if political discussion in the Parliament in Greece is a difficult one. This way, too, that the Greeks fulfil their requirements, is, like the rescue, alternatively without any alternative. That's why we're going to see if they're gonna make all of this happen. Reductions in the 13th and 14ths. Public service salary and pensions, removal of allowances, introduction of a solidarity levy, increase in VAT, increase in taxes on fuels, cigarettes, alcohol, special tax on profit-making companies, taxes on gambling and so on. [[Abg. May. Stefan: And if not?]] [[Abg. Kickl: And what is Plan B?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What if not?]] We will see that this list of measures that hurt in Greece, as never before, is handled and implemented by the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And what if that doesn't happen?]] We will not pay the €2.3 billion, as some put it under, and then wait for what happens, but we will provide the credit in a way after quarterly reports from Greece and if necessary point by point, train by train. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't solve this in the Austrian banking package either!]] We are not going to put it in place in Europe, but we will pay if Greece has fulfilled the demands and if Greece on the second side also needs the necessary resources, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third point I would like to address before I come to the questions I have been asked: What do we learn from this in the euro zone, in the European Union? From my point of view, there is a very clear mission from the miser around Greece: We do not need to reconsider the Stability and Growth Pact, which was the basis for the introduction of the euro, but at least to significantly expand from the sanctions, from the sanctions, from the sanctions, from the possibilities to act. In the future, we must have the instruments in the euro area, down to serious measures to be able to intervene in countries that do not comply with the requirements of the euro zone – early, timely and not too late. These are the tasks that can now be achieved in Europe's policy over the next few weeks and months by 2011. We need insight and control, sanctions and intervention. That must be the motto as a lesson from this miser around Greece. And now on your questions. Questions 1, 2, 3, 8, 13, 14: Ultimate objective of the support action is, I have done so, to stabilise the euro area. In principle, the measures will calm the markets. You can see that, too. This is also clear from the effects of the announcement of aid, which has always led to a fall in interest rates. Interest increases were only reported if doubts were expressed about the credibility of EU aid. Countries such as Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy account for about one third of the gross domestic product of the entire euro area. Estimates assume that, for a period of three years, between €600 and €1,000 billion would be necessary in financial aid. Everything must therefore be done to prevent the spread of the Greece debt crisis to other countries. The support of Greece, along with a rigorous savings programme I have listed, is an important step towards avoiding a fire of land and the expansion of the crisis in Europe. The Greece Help Package signales markets that the euro zone is serious with the rescue of the country and the common currency and that speculations against the euro à la longue are not successful. The figures underlying the rescue plan are based on an in-depth on-the-spot analysis by the International Monetary Fund. At this point I would like to say: We should not pretend that this aid would be available for the first time for Greece as it is now – it has already worked for many other countries. The experts of the Monetary Fund will check compliance and in the past have always guaranteed – always guaranteed! – that the loans to the lenders have flown back. Also from the history of the Monetary Fund, please do not forget about aid measures for Hungary and other countries! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Have been devalued everywhere!]] Only these figures can be used as a serious basis for decision. – I do not know the basics of the figures mentioned in the media. I can only rely on what has been presented from the euro area, by IMF experts, by the ECB and the EU Commission. Payments to Greece shall cover the three-year programme agreed with Greece. In total, Austria makes up to €2.3 million – exactly € 2.29 million – available over three years. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you forget the National Bank?]] The first payment is scheduled for mid-May. A further payment is planned for each further quarter, but only after a positive assessment of the progress reports – unanimously! – Train to be released. The specific staggering of the amounts depends on Greece's maturity profile, but will be evenly distributed over the three years. The euro area Member States commit themselves to this over a period of three years, i.e. until mid-2013. The total financial burden for Austria is €2.29 billion. Repayments and interest payments will be made quarterly. Interest payments are based on the Euribor interest rate, similar to the currency fund system, with an extra charge of 300 basis points. In addition, 100 basis points are charged for run-times of more than three years. A service fee of 50 basis points is added. Questions 4 and 5: A simple summary of the contributions is not permitted. The Austrian National Bank shall make its contributions available to the IMF within the framework of its obligations. It is also loans to be repaid! This is partly done through the regular resources of the IMF on one side or partly within the framework of the “New Arrangement to Borrow” system implemented by the IMF. The participation shall be in proportion to the shares of all the eligible Member States in the IMF. In all cases, debtors are the IMF – and not the country, so not Greece. Participation in Greece's financing by the IMF therefore does not take place directly, but can be calculated as follows: The previous participation from history in crisis packages in Austria by the National Bank accounts for about 1 percent – and does not become budget-effective. The central point is that it is not budget-effective. We do not have this situation for the first time, but there has been such a situation several times. You can read about this as it has gone on in the past. It is therefore not true that Austria would have to impose an additional total burden of up to €5.6 billion on Greece. [[Abg. Street: 6.3 billion! That's right!]] On question 6: At the end of 2008, the gold stock of the Austrian National Bank was around 280 tons and about 9 million ounces of gold. The net currency position of the Austrian National Bank at the end of 2008 was €6,104 billion. The annual accounts of 2009 are not yet decided by the General Assembly of the National Bank. Estimates on the amount of gold and currency reserves in advance for 2012 cannot be made by the Federal Ministry of Finance. Question 7: We expect a full repayment of the loan and interest. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: It may be laughed!]] – Greece is not a developing country, but already has a relatively high standard of living. 94 percent of EU-27 on average. Greece will be EU Structural Funds until 2013 – ladies and gentlemen, listen to the second part of the answer! – available of €16 billion. [[Abg. Kickl: So in good German: This will be a huge business!]] These resources can be stopped and diverted. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next Mauritius holiday is secured!]] On the question 9: I am looking for an understanding of the fact that no specific figures are available to the Federal Ministry of Finance on this question complex and therefore it is not possible to answer this question. – Moreover, this question is not subject to the right of question in accordance with § 90 GOG. However, I quote that the RZB announced in a statement to the APA that the Greek exposure of the RZB remains below €300 million. – That was a quote from the APA. Question 10: The responsible handling of taxpayers' money is a top priority for me as Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Bucher: You can see that at the ads! The ads are proof of this!]] The taxpayers work hard for their money every day, and I am their lawyer, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That's how I see myself, and that's how our work is defined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] All decisions relating to the granting of aid shall be taken in agreement with the Federal Chancellor and in agreement with the Austrian National Bank. I can assure you that I will take all decisions together with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, all measures to deal with the crisis in the light of a careful, responsible approach to the money of taxpayers and to the stability of Austria. Questions 11 and 12: A refusal to support under the strict conditions of the EU and the IMF would not only result in a loss for the banks that have an exposure to the Greek country of just under €5 billion. A government bankruptcy of Greece would also have significant economic consequences, which is why there is no more cost-effective alternative to EU-accredited aid. At the summit with representatives of Austrian banks a few days ago, we agreed on a common procedure. There is also no alternative to the shared aid, because we have the common responsibility to prevent fires and to establish stability in Greece, including in the euro. I have ensured that the Austrian banks will keep their commitment to Greece stable and do not withdraw early, as others might do and thus indirectly aggravate the crisis. At the same time, we also require Austrian banks not to speculate against Greece. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This gives us a very clear signal that we don't let anyone down and work on the fact that no one else gets into the field of speculation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the rating agencies expect creditors to return about 30 percent of their capital in the event of a pleite of Greece. According to Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the Austrian financial intermediary's exposure to Greek debtors at the beginning of March 2010 amounted to at least €7 billion, of which around €5 billion are banks – of which €3.5 billion are government bonds and €1.5 billion are Greek banks. With 70 percent amortization, banks and Austrian investors would lose about €5 billion. This would not be systemicly threatening, but would significantly reduce the lending potential in Austria especially for the small and medium-sized economy, for those investing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is not available now!]] In addition, there will be indirect effects on Romania and Bulgaria on the impact of a Greek banking crisis, where Austria's banks are very committed. Estimates are not possible, but the economic damage is – at least potentially – in the single-digit billions. Questions 15, 18 and 19: Apart from the fact that a Member State's exclusion from the euro area is not provided for in the EU Treaty, the consequences of this would be serious. Economically, the cost would be the same as that of Greece's failure, because it would at the same time generally call into question monetary union. And the consequences would be that the interest rate level will be pushed up, that the euro was under further depreciation pressure and that there could generally be a massive depreciation. It is therefore all the more important, in a joint effort, to do exactly the opposite, which is being discussed here today by the BZÖ, namely to stabilise Greece and to help accordingly. On the question 16: The aim of the campaign is to inform about the debt backpack, which each Austrian and every Austrian has to carry of around € 24,000. To date, this information measure has cost around €728,000. [[Abg. Kickl: After bravo!]] [[Abg. Grosz: 728 000 € for ads!]] [[Abg. Strache: 728 000 € for this plantation! There's no such thing as that!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The funds are available to the BMF – like any other department – for information work. Information must be worth something, not to mention what is a central question for Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The time of honesty has come to put the facts and facts on the table. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[New calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] On the question 17: From today's point of view, there is no indication that the central bank shares in the IMF aid will be staggering. So much, ladies and gentlemen, to answer the questions, to the issues and also to the debate. I define my job as Deputy Chancellor and, above all, as Minister of Finance in a crisis situation, not in populism, but in responsibility. It is a situation that many people in Austria and Europe are unhappy about. I have said that I too am angry, but in the perspective for Austria, for Europe over the next few years and decades – and we owe that to the next generation – there is this help, which does not go by any way of stabilizing Greece. The alternative would immediately give us thousands, hundreds of thousands of jobs, serious collapses in the Austrian economy and a threatening scenario of the European Union's break-up. We have held a commemorative event in this House today against violence and racism, and we have also talked about the peace project Europe and the incredible catch-up history of this continent for decades. But Europe has not only its responsibilities when it comes to peace, but also when it comes to joint crisis management. That, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be fulfilled in these days. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[14:11]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5346	I announce that in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of a Committee of Inquiry to investigate undue influences in the field of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. Debates of the European Parliament We are now entering the debate on the urgent question. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes; Overall speaking time per group: 25 minutes. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5383	Madam President. High house! We have just heard that the Minister of Finance stabilises Greece. Please, press your mobile phones outside and check how this stability is just developing in Athens! The first bank buildings are burning, and the first death in a bank is already to be complained. – That’s how the “stability” looks, ladies and gentlemen! You can understand: What the European Union decrees Greece will bring Greece into chaos! We already got the taste of it today. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I will show you where your failure lies, Minister of Finance! [[New calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You will still have reason to say that I will show you today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The citizens outside are currently having two feelings, one of which is anger at what is happening there. Three weeks ago, the Minister of Finance said that it was not certain that Austria would participate because it costs too much. Today he says there is no alternative at all. That's exactly the volume – not talk now, but listen! . exactly the volume that is now urgently needed in tax reform. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You said that too!]] This volume is now, as it were, being used for Greece. What, do you think, does the citizen say about it when the Minister of Finance speaks of ‘alternatives’? – The naked anger has captured the citizens. The second feeling is fear, fear that with the currency stability of the euro, it is not as far as you claimed in 1997. I excavated a speech by Dr. Haider of the time. In 1997, at the Schilling People's Desire, you've mocked, you've explained us to the back of the woods when we said there were countries that were dizzying. . We have this literally in the Minutes, I can read it to you. When we said that there are countries that are moving massively into the euro zone, you have mocked us. – Today you are unscrupulous, you no longer know how to deal with these countries. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That's your failure, and you'd have to wear it. They have reason today to spread their ashes to the head, to keep silent, and to think about whether there are any other alternatives. You have to think about other alternatives. When I consider how your Secretary of State was dirty last night when a German professor told him that this is a bank rescue package and has nothing to do with Greece, ladies and gentlemen – that is what the citizen sees, because it is true. [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] As stupid as you think people are, they're not. Believe me! The citizens in Athens aren't that stupid either. They will still feel the anger of the people. Not that I'm happy, but I'm telling you, that path you're taking here is a very dangerous path. The Minister of Finance has officially admitted for the first time today that it is not about saving Austrian finances. It is only about saving the Austrian banks, ladies and gentlemen, for which we already had to pull 100 billion out of our pockets and offer liability. And Mr. Bank Directors sit there and say, unlike the German bank directors: This is nothing to do with us, since we do not participate at all! But the taxpayer may again take over the billions of liability for the Austrian banks. Our Minister of Finance has been to the Raiffeisenbank, a subsidiary, three weeks ago, and has meant that he demands the primacy of banking policy. – It’s exactly the other way round, ladies and gentlemen, and we already have the proof: The banks dictate politics to you, not to make politics! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, your policy is characterised by an already dangerous inventiveness, because only the imagination to grab the taxpayer in the west pocket and offer liability, but there is no need for Josef Pröll to do so, would builder Lugner also be sufficient. So much imagination would make it possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, Minister of Finance, you are a risk in this office. You're a risk in this office, and that's a problem for you. I want to tell you what I see the big problem; You don't need to believe me, just check it out! The greatest risk is that you will now open the Pandora canals to stay in Greek mythology. Monetary union has gone so far as to prohibit expressly for good reasons – and that is why it is also in EU primary law – you are right not to exclude Greece; [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath]] Primary law – expressly prohibiting, and this is also primary law, that the Union assumes liability for each other for States and for the Member States in order to produce, as it were, a form of seeming stability. That's exactly what you're doing now. You are now making the monetary union a union of liability! – I ask you: What is the reason for this? You'll tell the Portuguese tomorrow that Are you refusing a liability you have already given to the Greeks, then the Italians, after that the Spaniards? Grotesk is also that now even countries are being held responsible, who are even candidates for liability; Spain, for example. This is pyramid game, ladies and gentlemen, and take part in this pyramid game. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are the chief responsible for this and no one else! This is pyramid play and ends with the currency being in danger. Everyone knows this, everyone with whom you will at least perform a critical reflection in the back of the chamber will confirm it to you. Everyone will confirm it to you. Mrs Merkel is already ready. Mrs Merkel takes up an idea that we represented in 1997. You mocked us back then. We said at the time that at least two monetary zones had to be set up: a stable euro and a different currency zone for those countries that cannot meet the stability criteria in the full width. [[Abg. Körl: Carinthian Hypo!]] – I ask you to comment on this in the Minutes: The only thing that comes into the mind of a black MP when the Austrian is angry and afraid of his currency is the Carinthian hypo. That's the only thing you think of. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Faith Do you really think that with such mindless calls you can solve a problem of this magnitude?- Oh, my God! Faith You really do? Tell the citizen outside! If you believe that the citizen is satisfied with it, I guarantee you that. With this line you cannot stabilize Greece, nor can you maintain the stability of the euro, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is therefore no way forward in amending monetary union. You must continue to develop monetary union! It's the only possible solution. You must introduce a second quarantine currency zone, and you must devalue in this quarantine zone. This is not a shame, ladies and gentlemen; Professor Van der Bellen, confirm this! Depreciation only says that the parity between the economy and the currency is produced so that the currency has stability and credibility again. Then an economy can be healthy, in a permanent process, which the population also participates in. Do you really think that the population in Greece or in any other country that will be affected by it is watching the speculators sink their millions and billions abroad and they themselves have to pay the token for it?- Oh, my God! Regardless of what is to be accused of the Greeks, the population will not accept this without further delay. Who believes that stability means making such stability, looking at how a government is driven into the abyss. I guarantee you: If development continues this way and one believes that in Berlin and with Mr Trichet it is necessary to decide what the Greek citizens, including the poorest of the poor, will pay, then these citizens will defend themselves. This has never been well done, ladies and gentlemen! I am also not aware of a single case of history in which such a reorganisation would have succeeded without devaluation. Show me an example! Tell me, Minister of Finance, that you tell Parliament, but above all tell the Austrian citizen how much money you still want to take over or how much money you want You no longer want to take control of this rescue operation if you do not succeed in the first run! This rescue action presupposes that there is nothing happening on the financial markets that does not happen at international economic policy level – and the signs do not indicate that nothing could happen. If something happens, all that you said today, and all you've offered, is already Makulatur. Then you have to take more money into your hand. Please tell Parliament where your pain limit is! The citizen has already reached this, I'm just telling you. Tell the citizens today, or admit openly that you do not know! That would be honest, too, because you don't know. You don't know how much you still have to pay in, so that's the wrong way. Please go a right way, which is also specified by the national economy, which has been tested in the history of economies and financial markets! And this tried-and-tested path has never worked if you only assume liability and do not produce real currency savings. They need to create another currency zone in order to be able to tackle real stable conditions, including economic policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I ask you – for the first time, I didn't think I was going to get so fast – to ask you today: Be aware of EU primary law, be aware of the rules that the states themselves have set themselves! I call on you today to refrain from breaking the rules – in the interests of the Austrian taxpayer and in the interest of a stable euro!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5539	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5560	Mr President. High house! I believe that if I say that for a small country like Austria, the euro zone, the euro, the euro, is absolutely indispensable, too, in the interests of Austrian workers and the Austrian entrepreneurs and the real economy. That's not the object of wild speculation. We are interested that this euro is stable and that everything is therefore to be done to ensure that it is also secured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say to you, in this context, that the most important question for us is: Are these 2.3 billion that we set in motion for Greece together with others, for Greece, for Europe or, above all, for Austria? . I say this is happening primarily for Austria, considering that Greece is a country that has bought many Austrian products, in billions that we are very strongly influenced and dependent on the export economy that jobs in Austria are related. [[Abg. Strache: That's just more absurd!]] This is a very crucial point. The second crucial point is that it is absolutely no small matter when Austrian banks have to write down €5 billion and don't know where they can go to get this money back. But I'm still talking about banks. So it is in the Austrian interest that we take this step, but, I say now, there is something more to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] ==References====External links== April something written, which is right: “... that those who have committed themselves in politics, bureaucracy, the Church and the private sector to community and tiresome waste of taxpayers and EU subsidies.” The EU must put pressure on Greece to do so by rebooting. These rulers must be in court! Something else because we have read, even lately: 8 billion more from Greece to Switzerland. Switzerland is constantly being praised as an example, although the Swiss banks are offering themselves for tax refugees to hide. Switzerland is a tax haven, which in truth belongs to closed. Otherwise, we are always the only object in the monopoly of the financial sharks, the speculators and the super-powered ones, because they can push the money globally and because the national states and the large economic zones do not agree enough to be able to sit down. This would be a matter on which you could ask for urgent action here so that we can work together to find ways and means to counter this. - A very important point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If nothing happens in this regard, then the fools are always the taxpayers, the taxpayers, the small, the middle entrepreneurs, the workers, the workers, the pensioners, the states. These are those who are increasingly indebted. More and more rich people are deprived of the tax obligation to organise globally, are no longer to be found, are on the Cayman Islands, in Switzerland or elsewhere. [[Call the FPÖ:And they're funding now!]] Greece is just an example of many examples. You, as a social home party, could think with us of how to be held up if you want to be taken seriously, and not always resist it. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There was today a very interesting interview in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – a very bourgeois, but serious newspaper – with Mr Franz Josef Radermacher under the title “The financial sector needs to be taxed more strongly. Otherwise, the collapse is threatening.” In this interview Radermacher says that if the states don't organize, those who have organized themselves globally will continue to play Monopoly with us. “In the banking sector, much too much money is earned,” says Radermacher. And he went on to say that the high salaries of the actors must be taxed differently. Exorbitant incomes must be taxed exorbitantly. You have to close the tax havens. Radermacher says you finally need the financial transaction tax. You need a tax on stock exchange transactions. He says that if you don't finally counter it in this way – that's also a control and steering instrument – then you won't be mastering this thing, then a crisis will hunt the other. That cannot be our goal: that one does not realize that this is a systemic problem, that one does not take the decisive steps. Here, I tell you, the European Union is required. Radermacher says at the end of the interview: “What is happening today is a huge expropriation programme at the top of the asset structure at the expense of the middle class.” Anyone who appears today as the defender of the middle class should think with us about how we get in control of this. How do we get hold of this? [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I can tell you how we handle this. It is not through any cloud-cuckoo concepts that we have to get to grips with, once the states are organized differently, finally at EU level, as one of the major economic zones with a strong currency, the decisive steps are taken in this regard. [[Abg. Kickl: You can't even make an administrative reform! What are you talking about?]] Financial market supervision is not toothless, but effective; one of the most crucial points. Second point: Rating agencies. – You have to look at that in the last few days. Three American rating agencies are described in a newspaper as not something that is against the financial miscarriage, but as part of the crisis, as collaborators in this crisis. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These rating agencies are in fact worthy of the speculations in the financial sector. One of these rating agencies, Greece, assumes that the papers are junk papers, take along another part of Spain and the other Portugal. The second rating agency is silent, the third says something different again, and the markets are moving suddenly. – That’s not acceptable what’s happening there! There is a need to react accordingly through new rules; from me through a European rating agency, but there is also a need to determine what they can and whether they are independent, because we do not need the London City. It takes a bank tax that they also have to pay. Of course, it is also indirectly true that what we are doing in relation to Greece is, in a sense, stabilising the banks. Radermacher also says in his interview that they deserve very, very well. But then there must be a bank levy, a solidarity levy. If you already deserve well and sometimes deserve even better in the crisis – Mr. Ackermann of Deutsche Bank has already disbursed 10 million bonuses again – then you have to do something together so that the decisive steps are taken. And you can do something! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, this will mean that you have to look very closely at the euro zone when re-recording. That's where you have to be very penable. I don't see a resumption in the future – you don't need to worry about it. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But we will have to look very closely at the future of resumption in the European Union. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] You really have to look very closely at that! We want to discuss constructively here, and this is also an aspect of vital importance in this context. Here, I think, it is good to get together and try to debate constructively here and look for common solutions. There is rightly this criticism in the population! The population rightly asks: What is our relationship with the European Union? We have joined, and we expect the European Union, the sum of the governments in the European Union, to fulfil all that is fulfilled as far as these financial markets are concerned, so that everything is done so that it does not happen again, so that there is no such case in Greece. In the interests of the European population, in the interests of taxpayers and taxpayers, everything really needs to be done here! But you also have to name the guilty. [[Abg. Booker: Where are the guilty, Col. Cap? Who are they?]] It must be avoided that those who have once been victims of this crisis will be a second and a third time. That is also a social question. There is a need to take a stand against those who also bear responsibility for it. [[Abg. Bucher: They're sitting somewhere else!]] You, with your small, modest national perspective, should look at the fence a little bit, and once you realize what is really happening in the world, that you should really seek coordination here, so that we can finally get this space, this Europe, as a project, more acceptable and we in the global competition and debate can fight these influences, these regulations that are necessary so that they do not lead to a permanent repetition of these crises. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Grosz: All in the SPÖ are happy about such an intellectual outbreak!]] But names can be called – that can sometimes be unpleasant, but there you can get involved, and not just play the small shilling conflict game here. [[Abg. Bucher: What are you talking about, Mr. Cap?]] So you will not be able to make a contribution to solving this problem!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5757	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5779	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler is a well-known rhetorician. [[Abg. Riepl: Well...!]] - Let's let him do that. – But always when he gets loud, he is not understood at first, and second, there is caution, because then he usually takes the flight forward. And if there is another call, from whatever series, from my ranks in this case, which deals with the hypo-alpe-Adria somewhere – FPÖ, BZÖ, FPK, who always bears the responsibility for the state's having to enter into a liability of €17 billion – then he becomes loud and nervous. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From yours!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] And then another fog bomb falls on EU primary law: Dear Ewald Stadler, you know that this voluntary action by the Member States never violates primary law because the States make this assistance voluntary because necessary. You know that very well, that's just a fog bomb of yours. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Absolutely excluded!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There have been serious mistakes in Greece, no question at all. The situation there is largely self-indebted, and the people in Austria are rightly insecure, angry, even angry, rightfully, because the causes of the misdeed in Greece are in their own country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sauer they're on the Finance Minister!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Ads on Pump!]] Col. Cap, it is also, but not only so that there are a few rich tax refugees operating there and thus abstain from the state taxpayers' money. Unfortunately, it's much worse there: The state is systematically exploited there, not by all, but by many. If one looks at the fact that in Greece every fourth person is employed by the state or at least receives a Gage from the state, or if officials receive an allowance to get to work on time – this list could be continued at any time – then, colleague Cap, one realizes, the whole goes deeper than just in the direction of a few rich people who do not pay their taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, I also do not know whether it is the solution of all the problems when, as you do, you list a variety of taxes and just sound the call for taxes, taxes, taxes. That, I think, is not the solution to the problem. [[Abg. Bucher: You are also involved in the discussion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all these shortcomings in Greece, we must not leave Greece alone in this situation, otherwise the problems of the Greeks will be our problems today or tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. They're all right!]] So reason forces us to help here. And if Mr Bucher of the BZÖ also in the request here advises us to provide assistance for self-help: Yes, it is precisely help to help help help Greece to overcome this obstacle, but at the same time also to impose on the country to bring those structures in its own country which are currently not in order. [[Abg. Bucher: You help the banks! They help the banks and not the Greeks!]] [[Abg. Strache: We have seen this in the Austrian banking package, which has been “imposed” there!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember: The financial crisis was triggered in all its dimension at the time when the first bank in America, Lehman Brothers, went into bankruptcy and was not helped. [[Abg. Bucher: Where is the speculation tax?]] A domino effect has been set in motion – with fatal effects! "Lehman" must not repeat itself, and that is why we need to help Greece now! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, another point. Not a few experts have warned that the financial crisis is not over yet. I'm afraid they're right. After the banking crisis, a state crisis has now become visible, a debt crisis of many Western states, which have made debt for far too long, over years, and we, too, over the circumstances, debt. That means, now, after the real estate bubble, unfortunately, the bubble of public debt. And that hurts. Ladies and gentlemen! But we cannot help Greece without asking Greece to make its own efforts, and that is to say huge efforts. The people in Greece face great victims. The policy there is facing a huge task, but this task has to be solved. I think most Greeks have recognized the signs of time, and I think they have earned everything else – in all the criticism of the mistakes that have happened there – and they have earned everything but hems or polemics, as it unfortunately is to be heard and read several places. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, you can see that!]] I do not believe that it would be a solution to put the chair in front of the Greeks now, because that would be the beginning of the end of our integration and peace project, which we are rightly proud of in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some are currently also doubting the importance of the euro as a whole. I say that Austria and Europe also need the euro. Let's just think about it: 70 percent of our exports – and our prosperity would not be possible without exports – go to the EU countries. In recent years, we have saved billions of price assurance transactions that would otherwise have been necessary, and the financial crisis would have hit us much harder if we had not had the euro. [[Abg. Street: See Switzerland!]] And if we want to help, we also need to analyze the causes. All countries – or almost all; most, not all – finance their prosperity with debt. [[Abg. Street: Switzerland not!]] In addition to the debts we have unfortunately entered into our wealth financing, we also have to make a sum of debt to deal with the crisis. The world is indebted like never before in times of peace! Ladies and gentlemen! The EU must therefore start a project to stabilise the euro, together with all of us in Austria, and we must redefine the Stability Pact, as the Minister of Finance has already said, and all of us, not just Greece, must do our homework. Austria is not Greece, but Greece must be a reminder to us. Yesterday we discussed and decided on the Federal Financial Framework Act, an ambitious law, as I mean, in the Budget Committee. We'll decide here next week in this house. The law is ambitious. What we need next is an implementation concept, an ambitious implementation concept. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now experiencing this in the debates in the media: The ideas regarding the renovation of our budget are currently far apart – and this is also true in a political debate, but, ladies and gentlemen, we should agree on the following: All in Austria will have to make their contribution to rehabilitation, but according to their performance. Therefore, we should not be here to be small, not to discuss and argue about clients-oriented, because that will not lead us to the goal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ah-Rufe at BZÖ]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The command must be: Deficit reduction, debt reduction – and always while safeguarding our growth path, even with the greatest possible maintenance of the high employment rate we have in our country. If we take all of this into account when rehabilitating our budget, we will also be able to succeed together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6056	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. I'll set the clock to the entire speaking time of your club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6077	Madam President, Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on the explanations made so far. Mr. Klubobmann Kopf has spoken of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria, but simply by little “forget” that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has been his party friend Martinz, that is, the Carinthian ÖVP chief Josef Martinz. [[Aha-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Thus, this own responsibility will be so casually referred to as “forgetting. ” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's similar with Klubobmann Cap: His party friend Gabi Schaunig was in the Supervisory Board of Hypo Alpe-Adria. All this is only so casual for you – and therefore you do not mention from the SPÖ all the pleas you have to answer in the Second Republic: starting from the “consumer”, the BAWAG, to the municipal credit where the current Minister of Education Schmied had the responsibility in the Supervisory Board. And there I refer not only to this miser, but also to other scandals: AKH scandal, Skylink and so on and so on. There's a way to keep going. – So much only for the political reality and to show your tactic of concealment. It is very interesting to listen to this current debate and your statements, namely to do as you do – as if the Greek financial debacle had not been predictable, indeed, quite surprisingly come to us. ==References====External links== September 2004 The following is to be read – I quote –: "The EU statistical authority has provided figures demonstrating that Greece has reported over the years beautiful data on the re-indebtedness of the country to Brussels. Since 2000, the country has been breaking the stability pact of the European Union.” – Quotes. And today, Mr Finanzminister, Mr Bundeskanzler, you are acting as if you had not known anything about it?- Oh, my God! – I can only say: Do you really want to sell the Austrians for stupid?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few days later, it turned out that Athens had even been tricking around since 1997, and EU Commissioner Amelia Torres said at the time – I quote – that: ‘If Greece had reported correct budgetary figures in Brussels from 1997 to 2003, it would not have been able to introduce the euro in 2001.’ — Quotes. That's reality. And the European Union has taken all of this. There have been only a few “severe words” that have been spoken here, in the way that this must no longer happen – but otherwise there has been no action or sanctions on the part of the EU. – And now you announce: But now there will be regulations! What are the requirements of the €15 billion for the Austrian banking package?- Oh, my God! – At least none of the Austrian banks have gotten! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To date, the Court of Auditors has not been able to review the balance sheets; to date, there are €3 to €4 million annual accounts for bank directors who have speculated all our money in the sense of a casino entity! So nothing like this has happened to you. Mr Finanzminister, you are no longer credible! You have played any credibility on these questions! As early as 2004, Athens was required to take a hard savings course. Back then. – But what actually happened? Nothing! And what developed from it, we see that. And then, Minister of Finance, go here and tell the Austrian people that Greece is now forced by your requirements to stop making new debts in the future! You can't even make new debts in Austria, Mr. Finance Minister. In 2010: 13 billion € more debts that you have incurred – well, “gratulate”! – but with the Greeks you want to try to make us know that you will succeed! All of this is not credible, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap, there is already a country, a neighbouring country of Austria, which has managed to reduce debt: Switzerland and its francs have managed to reduce debts. So there are also positive examples of countries – also outside the euro zone – that have been successful and have not gone down because they have not entered the euro zone. At the time, we liberals have warned very critically about how the European Union is developing in this way, even before the introduction of the euro. And unfortunately we have kept God's right with our criticisms. But today we say She here very faithfully said that the Greek situation was “fully unpredictable”. The Minister of Finance is surprised, the Federal Chancellor calls for transparency and help. With your measure, which you took yesterday, with these approximately €2 billion, you have exceeded the required legal limits, which is what the budget is about to achieve. Exactly €2.3 billion in aid will make it possible with the help of the budget, but do not miss the fact that a further €4 billion of support is currently being prepared in the Austrian National Bank, so to speak. Summa summarum is €6.3 billion, which will be spent for this. This bitter truth makes you fall under the table by ÖVP and SPÖ! They have all this to do, but do it all over the heads of the Austrian population! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] You're just being rolled over there! There is no parliamentary decision, there is no popular survey – nothing! And after you have passed over the interests of the Austrians coldly, try to sell it all as a business! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a “business” you want to sell what is supposed to be the return of interest – and there you have to ask: Then why not cover the entire debt burden of Greece with this great business?- Oh, my God! – Because You know very well, Minister of Finance, that economists, such as Hans Werner Sinn, say that we will never see a single euro, not a single cent that we will pay down there. Of course, this is also a hidden second bank and insurance package. This Greece plea represents a new debt of €700 for each Austrian, Mr. Finanzminister! And here it is really cynicism when you have launched an advertising campaign in the newspapers, where you have an unborn child – symbolically represented with the belly of a pregnant woman – say: [[the advertisement showing:]] “I have 23 901 € in debt”. You, Mr Finanzminister, bear the responsibility for burdening you with today's measure on every Austrian who has not yet been born, and anyone who already lives, once again and in addition, with €700 in debt! That's the reality! And that's where you have to ask who actually advised you. In view of your approach, it is, as I believe, a rather dramatic omen that the Minister of Finance has just torn the Achillessee in connection with the Greek aid. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This seems to have a dramatic connection when you consider it to be omen, because: What has happened in recent years? In recent years – and we know: even this year – Greece has to be financed with €50 billion in loans. Over the last ten years, Greece has received €6.1 billion of money from European Union allocations per year. per year € 6.1 billion!, a total of € 61 billion! Where did all the money go? Where, then, were these "toll" European Union control bodies that should have been looking for these Greece's resources to be used properly and sparingly?- Oh, my God! All these control bodies, all those EU experts you are always referring to, and who have tried to present us with invoices other than "terrorist", things that have not occurred at all. All this points out, Minister of Finance, that your argument – after your speech today, it was clearly seen – is a grossly negligent. After your speech here today, I can only say: It is only the question whether it will be negligent or fraudulent if you continue to control our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because this monopoly game, this pyramid game, which you give the best here and then the Austrian people also try to sell it as a great rescue package for the euro, does lead to ad absurdum itself. And then, Mr. Finanzminister, go here and throw out €728,000 in money from the Austrian taxpayers at the window for a really cynical listing! Banks and insurance benefits from this, as well as the richest Greeks, who will benefit most from this package, which you, Minister of Finance, have strapped at the expense of the Austrians, namely Spiros Latsis, which according to Forbes list is estimated at €4 billion and which is also the largest holder of Greek bonds, namely €12 billion. In fact, there can only be a conclusion in this situation if you want to help the Greek population: Take the Greek people seriously, 75 percent of the Greeks want the reintroduction of the drachma, want the reintroduction of this soft currency, because they could then live better in this crisis by devaluation! That would be the only measure that would benefit all European peoples and would not drive us in a direction where at the end – and there should You're honest once! – a great inflation of the euro would come upon us if you would act that way! Then: Portugal, Spain, Italy, all these countries have already been called the closest to us. Italy, for example, already has higher public debt than its GDP. We therefore need to consider whether it would be useful to reintroduce the old currencies in the Mediterranean so that the euro does not go down, so that we do not lose our last savings and so that you do not force us to increase another tax increase over us, by increasing mass taxes and introducing new taxes, and by increasing VAT, thereby offsetting this aid package by tax contributions from the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the wrong way! And it is enough for the Austrians, because they already have the water up to their necks – but they are obviously not willing to control it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6218	Mr Obernosterer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6242	Mr. Klubobmann Bucher and Mr. Klubobmann Strache claimed in their statement that Landesrat Martinz was the Supervisory Board in the Carinthian Hypo. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In the holding!]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache said he was Chairman of the Supervisory Board. - That's not right! [[Abg. Strache: In the holding!]] Landesrat Martinz was never the Supervisory Board in the Hypo, but the representative of the Carinthian state government in the Hypo was always the financial representative, which was Mr. Pipefenberger, then Mr. Haider, and now it is Mr. Dobernig. [[Abg. Strache: He was chairman!]] [[Intervening calls and accompaniment at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's embarrassing what you're doing! Sit down!]] Landesrat Martinz was never a Supervisory Board or Supervisory Board Chairman. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6352	Mr Van der Bellen has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] May I ask for a little more rest, it's so loud in the hall! Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6382	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever really was a Supervisory Board member in the Carinthia-Hypo, we may be clarifying this outside of the plenary session. On the situation: It is certainly true that we are living in very interesting times, but in the sense of Chinese conjugation; in Chinese it is supposed to be a curse when you say: May you live in interesting times! We have decades of less interesting times behind us, so we will also deal with these very “interesting times ” or hopefully deal with them. I must admit that in February of this year I felt that Greece should be left to itself: Greece with about 2.5 percent of the GDP of the euro area, what is the point? Will they have to go into default step by step if everything goes wrong, i.e. explain inability to pay: 10 billion there, 10 billion there, and so on. It cannot be said that the approximately 300 billion public debt in Greece will become due once. In this way, the creditors would have been properly involved in the abuse. For it is now that way – all those who have already went into bankruptcy or compensation in private know it from company life – that is: If a company goes into compensation or bankruptcy, who is in the damage? – Of course, there are creditors who have to waive 90 percent of their claims in bankruptcy proceedings to 10, 40, 60, in the most unfavourable case. It is similar also if a state has to explain or wants to indebtedness. Very often, however, one comes from simply granting payment support, extending the timeliness of the debt. That was in February, but I now had to change my mind, mainly because of the completely unprofessional approach of the Finance Ministers, but especially the Prime Minister of the European Union. And among these were Mrs. Merkel, who has behaved completely unprofessionally in these months. It is incomprehensible to me that there has not been any consultants or consultants who would have taught her otherwise. Germany in particular has been correcting the other or vice versa in all the public in these months through contradictory statements – Schäuble and Merkel were not of one opinion regularly, one has regularly corrected the other or vice versa, and that with substantial claims, with non-substantial proposals, which can only be realized years later, if at all, – the financial markets have been held down and it has been totally underestimated that financial markets can be held for some time now – but when the roof is burning, then no more conjugation will be useful! I am only very happy that the last second was the last time the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, had been involved, because they have brought a little professionalism into the whole. The package has been significantly increased, but the period has been changed, among other things: not by 2012 but by 2014 Greece will achieve these enormously demanding and ambitious goals. So I have now changed my opinion because, so to speak, the risk of infection has simply become too great, ladies and gentlemen. If Greece were the problem alone, I'd say: That would be manageable. I trust that. me, so to speak. But if Portugal and Spain are added, we have a serious problem. The banks of the euro zone alone, ladies and gentlemen, are involved in Greece, Portugal and Spain together with around €800 billion. That's no more cracks. So: We now face an unpleasant decision to intervene more or less directly in Greece or, if we do not, to help the European banks directly again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Yes, it is, you can say it openly. That's why I'm not saying the banks owe the bad guys. This is at least limited in the case of Greece. Nevertheless, the creditors should not get away with it in this case. I would say that in addition to the measures that the EU and the IMF have now decided, there should be three guidelines for further action. First: Falschen can't lie – not now and not in the future! That is, Greece must make its contribution. - I'll come back to that. Second and third – two messages to the creditors –: Require credit risk deposits without taking the risk – no! If you require risk supplements, you have to carry at least part of the risk afterwards. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And – a point that has not yet been debated –: The non-euro zone countries should not become Eurozone front-runners. [[New appeal to the Greens, as well as to representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] What about those Swiss banks in the range of €20 to €40 billion, so I have read about being involved in Greece – not to mention Portugal and Spain – with the British banks that are specifically engaged in Spain? The only way to take these creditors into the obligation to take them into account is if you want to do so, compensation procedures, a re-debt procedure. In English, this is called a little euphemistic “preemptive restructuring. ” Preemptive means: before the crisis is acute. You now have time, about a three-quarters, a year, I would say, but not much longer to do that. And “restructuring” means: Extension of deadlines, initial adjustment of periods, speeches on interest rates and partial reductions in debt. Otherwise, Greece will not come out of this misery with its own, yet so great effort, I fear. The problem here is a gratification. Falschen mustn't be worth it – yes! Greece must pay the token – yes! But the Rosskur, which we believe Greece, should not result in the patient being dead afterwards. So if the patient is supposed to be able to walk again afterwards, he should not be amputated before. This is a very difficult walk! Ladies and gentlemen of BZÖ and FPÖ, whether Greece withdraws from the euro zone or not, is not so important, because this would not change much of the horse, because even if Greece were to reintroduce the drachma again and there was an immediate devaluation – we say 30 to 50 percent – the debt would still be there, so that they would not disappear. The debt in euro – and they have 98 or 99 percent of Euro-debt – would not disappear as a result, which would be all the more expensive to use. They would have to make all the more effort to make so much money in drachmas that they could pay it in euro. So, the Rosskur doesn't change anything! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, I believe that this is, in principle, feasible. I hope that one day, too, the trade unions will see this. Austria – I have the last OECD Revenue Statistics in front of me – has a tax rate, taxes and social security, of over 42 percent in 2007, Greece such a figure of 32 percent. The difference is ten percentage points. Ten percentage points in the case of Greece are around €25 billion per year. So, there is already a lot of room for tax policy – apart from the fact that the tax morale in Greece must finally be raised to normal standards. The €110 billion – once again: it is not only about morality, but also about a reality of assessment – which Greece has now been promised for three years, are enough if the financial markets cannot be reactivated, at least for two years. Then we face the same situation. That means: The programme requires that the financial markets can be reactivated until then. This is not the case, however, if everyone – almost everyone – comments in the “Financial Times” or in the “Economist” assumes that Greece will not be able to achieve this at this time that re-indebtedness, restructuring is inevitable. And in addition, my two arguments are: The creditors must be taken into account, in particular those from non-euro area countries. And as far as the speculators are concerned: I do not see a major contribution to the situation in Greece by the speculators, I tell you quite honestly, even with the CDS, not with the banks – except in 2010. But until October 2009, Mr. Bucher, Greece was regarded as a normal debtor – as a normal debtor! So, you can't blame them for giving them credit. In 2010, however, it was different. So you have to be very careful. Finally, I would say: What else do we learn from it? – Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough for countries to meet the conditions that were set up at the time when they entered the euro zone. That obviously is not enough! The behaviour as a member of the euro zone is essential! And that's not enough for the Stability Pact! The Stability Pact also does not prevent a real estate bubble, does not prevent a bank bubble or anything else. We need to coordinate financial policy at European level, which has become so to speak. We must make this challenge as quickly as possible in the coming years! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6519	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6541	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Van der Bellen! It is true what you said here when you said that it must not be enough for a member country of the euro zone to meet the convergence criteria once and then do what it wants. Only, Mr Van der Bellen: These were precisely the points that we – also against your opinion and against your remarks at the time – made at the introduction of the euro, and which all the supporters – and something similar sounds like it again today – have struck the wind, because we have criticised the implementation – not on the principle! We have never said that a common currency would not also be our goal, but we have always said that a common currency, a monetary union only works if we establish a functioning economic union before it and if there are clear criteria for the member countries in the euro zone, which must then be respected. You have also said that there should be a sanctions mechanism. Yes, I ask you: Which one? – If it is worst, it is also the exclusion or withdrawal of a country that permanently violates the criteria and the requirements of this common currency, because otherwise there is no sense in a system of sanctions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This very debate is now being refused. This is the problem: Once again, it is the easiest way of pumping in money, taking on liability, as Mr Stadler has already said, to lend credit and to attract the Greek population to totally unrealistic measures. And they say: We do not know if this is all, but it will go, and with regard to the future we will close our eyes. No one knows whether this will work in Greece, ladies and gentlemen. Experts say: This does not affect the speculators, it protects the banks, but it affects the population and also the economy of Greece. It is said, above all, by the salary losses that will be reflected in purchasing power, there will be a minus of 4, 5, perhaps even 6 percent in the economy of Greece. Yes, what does that mean for our economy? What does that mean for the Greek economy? How are those there to be healthy with these measures that are being octroyed to them? Will these measures be enforced at all, or will break the government, and the future government will say: We don't even care about that, we can't do that!? Then we are at the beginning again, Mr Kopf, who has also said here that everything is all right and that is necessary. [[Abg. Head: A huge challenge!]] We want to discuss these things! And we believe that this is not enough that this is the wrong way to get out of this crisis. Mr Finanzminister, on the one hand, it is already strange that a request from the BZÖ for a special meeting should be made to discuss these abuses at all here. You don't even have, Minister of Finance... – Yes, but you have a majority of governments here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To the phone listener you could have grasped at least to inform the club chiefs or party leaders of the opposition about these things. Not even that was worth talking about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You say here today that the peace project of the European Union is at risk. That's where I ask you: Yeah, what? – Not by the critics of the measures and the European Union’s practices, but precisely by those politicians and bureaucrats who are all moving away and are always the simplest way, namely for themselves and for the lobbys and for the institutions, and not to consider what would be really necessary in order to make the European Union work. And one thing was interesting, Minister of Finance: You said you asked the Austrian banks not to speculate against Greece or to speculate against Greece anymore. [[Abg. Bucher: Not anymore!]] Mr. Finanzminister, was that necessary? [[Abg. Head: “No more ” he didn’t say!]] From me: not to speculate against Greece. Was this call necessary? Have Austrian banks also speculated against Greece? After that would be interesting, ladies and gentlemen! And this shows for the time being: We, the Austrians and the Europeans in this case must get into the bag to balance what banks and speculators have broken there! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, say here once again to all those small investors – there are many small investors in Austria; now there is another case with Mr Auer von Welsbach – who must go to court to get perhaps 10 or 20 percent of their investment, whether there are any liabilities and loans taken over! That's not the talk of it, only the great ones – they can judge it again! Mr Cap, your speech is to be underlined by 100 percent in far-reaching areas, if you are talking about doing something against speculators, or if you are in favour of sanctions mechanisms. Only: That was an opposition speech, wonderful – but you are in the government! Where is a single initiative by the Austrian Federal Government, due to the financial crisis and now the Greek crisis, to call for action from the European Union in order to really fight against speculation? I don't hear anything about it – I don't hear anything about it at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is said again and again that we would not make any proposals here and not propose initiatives. I now put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher, Mr Scheibner and Mr Magistrate. Stadler, on behalf of the BZÖ, in which we call on you, Minister of Finance and the Federal Government, not to participate in this deal, which threatens to do so because it is going in the wrong direction and because it is also the wrong way for Greece. We call on you to take other measures to think in alternatives, such as the possibility of Greece's exit – at least for some time – from the euro zone, to take measures that will also support the economy accordingly, and we demand that there be clear sanctions mechanisms in the future. – Mr Cap, I hope you agree with this request. These would be appropriate measures that would really draw lessons from this crisis. I hope you agree. Mr Finanzminister, one thing I must say to you: You have held the wrong discussion here in Austria by taking the easy way – tax increases instead of real renovations. And now you, together with the other European countries, are also going the wrong way when it comes to overcoming this European crisis. This path leads in the wrong direction. Accept our ideas! This would be much better than just walling and covering here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6655	The motion for a resolution by Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr President, is properly tabled in his key points, and I will have it distributed in accordance with § 53 of the GOG. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6793	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6814	Madam President. Mr Scheibner, when you ask what we are doing to deal with speculation internationally and so on, I can say: Firstly, in Austria, social democracy was the first party to present a clear programme, which said what lessons to learn from the financial crisis. Andreas Schieder presented this programme last September. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where? At EU level, have you done something?]] And at European level – to this very point I am now – social democracy has so far been the only party that has presented a clear programme, under the title ‘Regulate Global Finance, now!’, with financial transaction tax as one of the core demands. [[Abg. Disciples: Implementation!]] As a result, all the social democratic parties in Europe have prepared a programme, chaired by Andreas Schieder. [[Abg. Scheibner: Until Great Britain has not talked about this!]] For four weeks Andreas Schieder has even held the presidency, because Austria, especially the Austrian Social Democracy, was also a pioneer in this regard. This is something you may not notice because you are not represented at European level, but you can rely on the fact that social democracy works and is active at European level and brings in the right demands. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Especially in Styria!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are the results?]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Are the foundations there?]] For our spectators, so you know what the numbers and base points mean: States finance themselves in such a way that they absorb debt over a certain period of time – in Austria, it is an average of seven or eight years when loans are received – and after this period it is repaid. Austria pays 3 to 4 percent interest per year. This is the model that all states apply, but it varies the maturity and the amount of interest. Greece receives a half-reasonable interest rate of 5, slightly more than 5 percent – at least until a half year ago – only if it owes itself to two years. This is why Greece has to absorb a lot of money every year, because it is only refinancing every two years – and that is too massively rising. Greece is paying by 10 percent in the meantime – forecasts speak from 15 to 20 percent if there is no rescue package now – to refinance itself. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which rescue package?]] What would that mean for Austria? – Only to understand the dimensions: Austria is currently paying €7 billion, €9 billion, €9.5 billion for interest, i.e. in this area. The higher interest rate and the duration of two years, converted to Austria, would mean that in a relatively short time, we would pay 20 billion to 30 billion euros in interest rates, in addition to today's. Everyone must be aware that this sum does not last for a long time. Also, Austria could not cope if it would have to pay 20 billion, 30 billion euros per year in interest. In this respect, this massive speculation, which has been in place in recent weeks and which massively raises these interest rates, is basically causing itself – and then no country passes through the effects. In this respect, it is absolutely necessary to achieve stabilisation. What is happening now is that the international community says: You don't have to borrow any more capital at 10, 15 or 20 percent interest, but we'll borrow this money by 5 percent – that's a relatively stable situation. With this, one wins time in the first place to look: Is it possible to create Greece from its own resources? Is there any need for any interruptions, reductions in interest rates or other restructuring measures? You gain time and thus stability and can then try to lead the process in order. And I think that's right. That the Greeks would be better if they had the drachmas, the professor said clearly anyway, but the question is, what effect would that have on us? This would not be so bad in connection with Greece now, but let us remember the time when the Lira was still there. If the lira has been devalued, this has meant less than 40 000 jobs in Austria. 40 000 jobs have been lost directly during the last lira depreciation in Austria. This means that the stability of the euro protects hard currency countries from these devaluations, which have always led to very massive consequences, especially in export-oriented economies such as Austria. So just to say: They're supposed to get out of the euro, then everything's great, because then we don't pay!, it's completely wrong. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's just that!]] We have paid much more in the past than is the case now. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Do we have a stable currency?]] Another example: Hungary, because that was also brought. [[Abg. Bookbook: Latvia!]] When it came to Hungary, which has the Forint, we all thought: Yes, that's right! We are neighbors, we have strong links to Hungary. That's all right in Austria. But also many other countries, which have little or no trade relations with Hungary, have been in the same position and have co-financed equally. One can not only think of the Floriani principle, but also in a system and in a solidarity way. Because once domino stones begin to fall, then usually very many fall; it is rare that only one falls. Austria has also needed international assistance in the past – this has been a long time ago – to get out of a currency crisis, out of a financial crisis. At that time we could count on the solidarity of the others. Insofar as it is all right, even if we show solidarity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6985	Mr Mag. Molterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7006	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, no one is happy with this situation, which is currently in place in Greece. Of course, we were not happy either when we were sitting here in autumn 2008, standing here and having to decide on a bank package. It would be fatal to rejoice in such a situation. But the question is: What is the alternative? – There is no one. We have to act now. The reason why it is in our interest, ladies and gentlemen, and in the European interest that we act now, is relatively clear: First: The risk that a non-decision is now massively affecting the delicate plant growth is absolutely given. If we do not act now, growth is gone again and the crisis is getting worse. Secondly, It is in our interest because, of course, important international export markets are also addressed. Remember – Jan Krainer is right in this case – we have also helped Hungary indirectly. The EU has also made money available to thank God. Thirdly, It is in our interest that the euro as a strong, stable currency should not be dissociated. That's quite clear. But still: I give the right to those who say that this also makes a critical discussion necessary, and I would like to make four points. First: What has to be done in Greece? - There's a lot to be done, that's no question at all. Greece must deal with this or without this package, not only for the future, but also for the past. There are responsibilities. But I think it is fatal when everyone now points to Greece, because the saying: With one finger you point to someone, and the other finger points to someone else!, right. This does not apply to Greece alone, of course there are other countries in the Union, which are also in a difficult period of discussion, for example UK. We may have to deal with another Prime Minister in the UK after tomorrow's elections. But who believes that the Social Democratic Gordon Brown has not done everything to prevent the financial transaction tax and prevent credit rating agency rules and prevent hedge fund rules that are wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Krainer, it was not the question of social democracy, that is the British position. And the S & D Brown has prevented this. So first of all: There is something to be done in Greece. Secondly, in Europe, in Europe I believe in four areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] First: The Maastricht criteria, as we now have them, are no longer sufficient. It is not enough to have rules on deficit, debt and inflation. We need deeper criteria for a coherent economic policy. Secondly, we must ensure that inclusion in the euro zone is only possible if future Maastricht criteria are respected. We need – third – clarity that Maastricht criteria are also verifiable. And, ladies and gentlemen, yes, Van der Bellen is right, we must – fourthly – consider ourselves in the future – insofar as some critical remarks, colleague Bucher: Is Maastricht sufficient for crisis situations as we have them now? That's where we're supposed to go. But all of this really means, Mr. Strache, that also means to your speech, that we need more Europe and no less. The key mistake is that Europe always reacts when there is a crisis. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We are now discussing the European airspace, because a volcano broke out in Iceland, but we know that a single airspace would have been necessary much earlier. Yeah, I've learned about it, too. I have not done everything we can to ensure that we have a European financial supervision. More Europe, ladies and gentlemen, needs it in this situation, and no less Europe! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: A dangerous threat!]] More Europe also means that we must finally regulate financial markets – I am not content with the discussion, nor with how it is in the European Parliament. There must be more to do. Third point: We should be honest, too. We started the bank rescue package in autumn 2008 and then there was a discussion in the direction: State, State, State! The state was the savior of all things again. But there is to say: Every call to state, state, state means debt, debt, debt! All those who think that the states are solving all the problems must now be given priority. If the state does not resort to what it has to do, but does too much, that means that the states are not the solution, but the problem. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our greatest risk in the meantime is the debt of the states. The debt of the States is the real problem for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unforgettable deficits in the European Union, for example in the US, must make everyone who is always calling for the state. We have to reduce the debt, and the states have to do what they have to do again: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] In the end, this does not lead to the desired success, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Fourth point: The central task for us, therefore, is to reduce the debt on the one hand and, on the other hand, to set the regulatory level at European level that the economy can grow again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] That's the real perspective. Not the state is the solution of all things, but sometimes the state creates problems that we have to solve together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7111	Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. I'll put the clock on the whole 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7132	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Molterer, let me begin by replicating a sentence in your direction: I believe to express the majority of the Austrian people's desire here, when I say that the Austrians no longer want Europe, the Austrians want to have more red and white red in politics again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I will deal more closely with the ÖVP later, but at first my political “love object”, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap, comes in. Mr Klubobmann Cap, I think you have found out, or I think I have heard from your words that you have agreed that this rescue package will stabilise the banks. In other words, the banks receive the money to achieve a stable factor. Now I ask you – but only rhetorically, for I know you are a educated person and know the answer, only you have kept it silent – why this problem actually arose. The problem has arisen because European banks at the European Central Bank account for 1 per cent – 1 per cent! – have received several billions of money and then invested this money in high-risk papers in Greece. This means that the banks with these Greek bonds with 8 percent, with 10 percent, with 12 percent, in the short term they were at 20 percent, have made interest for having received the money almost free of charge. And that's what you can do with today's decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] I say to you: This money does not come from a euro, not a cent from the Greek population. The Greek population is held down with tear gas if it is demonstrating today against such a package of atrocities. The first bank is burning in Athens, and the only ones taking advantage of it are the banks, the German banks, the Hypo Real Estate with €8 billion, the WestLB, the Commerzbank, the French banks, the Crédit Agricole, the Société Générale. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Street: French!]] It is €60 billion for the French banks, €4 billion in Austria, I have heard from the Minister for Finance and now it is €5 billion. [[Abg. Street: Raiffeisen 4 billion!]] In Austria, it is not known which banks with which volumes have invested in Greek bonds. I assume that Mr. Treichl went to this financial casino with some billion in the context of the ÖVP, in the context of the ÖVP with some billions of these high-risk papers. And now that they know that the taxpayers are helping them, they can turn back and say: Great, I'm doing my 10 percent, my 12 percent return, for having zero risk! - That's not how it is! The Austrian taxpayers will withdraw the money from the pockets that Greeks demonstrate, will be held back with tear gas, the banks will burn in Athens, and you will find that this is a good project. Greece is the cradle of parliamentarism. And why should the Greeks not vote themselves on whether they want to remain in the Euroverband or possibly return to the drachma? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The countries of southern Europe, of course, have a philosophy of soft currency policy that has grown for many decades. They have always devalued against the hard-currency countries when they face problems with their debts, and life has continued there quite normally. Now they have the bonds of the euro around their necks and can't do that anymore. Prices are exorbitantly high. A package of atrocities will be decreed, which in reality will not be implemented in a democracy, in part understandably not to be implemented, for the simple reason, because you cannot take away the people who earn €600 today from their entire livelihood, and only because of this – and I am again with you, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap – because you want to help the banks. That's not how it works! I said it last time: This goes through the Hernals section, where you, Mr Cap, can explain to your remaining colleagues with the appropriate eloquence and rhetoric. Here in the high house where you feel this matter on your tooth – I say once, on the red Tooth feels – it is thought that this argument that you and your colleague Krainer have given here for the best is very hollow. A hollow red tooth shown here. I never want to hear from anyone in the field of social democracy that you are for distribution justice that you are for property tax. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the staircase of history, Dr. Cap: They allow the Greeks to get into a more than major problem situation, that the Austrian taxpayers should now bring back tax money to the banks, which are so proud of billions of profits, and then you say: Yes, we need some wealth taxes and distribution justice! Heinz-Christian Strache has already mentioned Spiros Latsis, the richest man of Greece. 12 billion €, this is almost five times what is to be given to the Greeks on the Austrian side, he has invested in Greek bonds, of course with 10 or 12 percent return. By the way, just mention: Mr Latsis is always sailing with EU Commission President Barroso on his yacht. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. These are the networks!]] This is the policy you support here! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Whether Mr Krainer wears any buttons on his reversing and believes that social democracy is a great thing against the international financial economy is not important: You're doing the exact opposite! They're making a policy for billionaires. They make a policy for banking bosses and explain the opposite to your last comrades. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] With this package that has been decided, we know it won't be enough. Since today, we also know that the Slovaks have already said that they are not participating. After all, the Slovaks hit a scarce billion to pay. We do not know whether the decisions will be ratified in Parliament. Debts grow from day to day, getting higher. Now it is said that in summer it will be possible to determine about the extent of debt in Greece at all. In the meantime, the situation in those countries, which have now also got into the problem, starting with Spain and Portugal to the former hard-currency countries, is getting worse. That's something Dr. Van der Bellen said right. How should this work when countries that are already on the edge today, such as the Spanish, have to pay great numbers and transfer the billions towards Greece? I say that the euro, which was thought of as a success story and which leads Austria to a good future, is actually a failure story. Do you ask the Austrian population today what it prefers or where it feels that it was or is more valuable behind it: behind the schilling or behind the euro?- Oh, my God! The euro was introduced in 2002. Today, not even ten years later, what costs goods in euros is on the former Schilling! As you will see, there has been a huge depreciation, at the expense of Austrian taxpayers, at the expense of Austrian employees. This is the problem that people have to face. Their euro in the form was a pure failure, this euro was a pure flop! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as this Greece package, which has been tied up, is concerned, it is quite possible to observe in the financial markets how it is reflected as it is perceived. It can be seen that yesterday, not only the American stock exchanges, but also the European stock exchanges and the euro were on the road in absolute fall. Even today, where the euro is only more than 1.30 compared to the US dollar, it is still on the decline. [[Abg. Amon: You have no idea!]] They are leading the euro in a direction today, where, sometime ago, like Italy or Greece, we will also have a monetary policy. It is not in the interest of the Austrians to have to pay for the rest of Europe and to have exchanged their once good currency for the bad euro. Yesterday I was impressed by a picture on the Acropolis – for the sake of fairness I say it was of the Communists, but the message is not political, the message is not left, the message is not right –: On the Acropolis the words were: Peoples of Europe, lift up! This is precisely where the point of the debate is whether it will be possible to make politics and democracies the determining factor, or whether the financial sector will continue to state whether the hedge funds will indicate the tone, whether the rating agencies will give the tone and we as parliaments can only ratify what others say. That's the fight we have to face. We believe that in Europe the peoples of Europe should decide on their future, that Parliament should decide on their future, and that if it is to be, we should hunt the hedge fund managers and rating agencies out of the country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7293	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7314	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it wasn't that serious, one would have tried to say towards FPÖ, take care of your locks at Wörthersee or your air locks, but please, the acropolis from the game, which actually didn't deserve it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] First, Mr. Federal Minister of Finance, to what you said. You have just explained to the Austrian National Council that there is no alternative. The procedure you represent here and obviously want to continue to be the Federal Government is alternatively non-existent, I quote: is alternativesless. But we'll tell you, now it's over. It is not alternatives, in many ways and in several ways. It is not an alternative who has to pay for this crisis at the end, and it is not alternatively the answer to the question whether there is at last a responsibility for what has happened, or not whether it is in Greece or in Brussels, not only for the future as ex-minister Molterer has done here, but also for the responsibility for acting in the past. The citizens in Europe will otherwise run away from where you always conjure it. I say to you that we also have more and more understanding of this, and that is why: Now it's over! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] It seems as if there were speakers on the government bank and no ministers. [[Abg. Bucher: Konrad!]] That's exactly the reason. If I were a bank speaker, I would also make myself there and say there are no alternatives, in fact. If I were just to skip what is still being held together in Brussels, where governments are actually – just as here, only to a much greater extent – hopping behind the banks, the Federal Republic of Germany and France, then that is exactly what history is going on. I'm not asking you to stand up against Angela Merkel or against Nicolas Sarkozy, that's not the point. But it is also to be questioned why they act like that. [[Abg. Strache: Why do the Slovenians who are even smaller than we do?]] Finally, we are receiving a report from the Federal Government on a urgent request from a political group here in the house, which looks like this: There's no alternative. - Aha! What is there actually no alternative for? There should be no alternative? And now we come to the first question, I have said two are relevant: Who's paying back now? And it's undisputed that someone has to pay. It's not for nothing. Whoever says that says nonsense. I think that the monetary theories announced here earlier by the blue group are a nonsense anyway. That's not the point. But who pays? That is the relevant question! And second: Who is to be held responsible? But now on the question of who pays. – Of course, it is true that over the years as in other countries, public debt has also been built up, as has Greece. Let's get this over there! But what has happened since autumn, since it became clear that there is a budget problem there? Originally, this was a budget problem, so it was, and not the banks. But now the creditors for whom we now pay are coming! Aha, there is a problem in Greece, as if it had not been known before. But what do we do about it? – We make a supplier cartel, we now pay more interest on government bonds, because they are risky there in Athens. It may be because they see more risk. Aha, and now, half a year or eight months later, when part of the risk, by the way, not even everything, is going to hit what is happening? – Not those who have earned the risk at last have their share, because precisely from carrying the risk results in the higher price, the interest they pay. No, you come to us, you come to the European taxpayer and say you pay now. – This is the result of your policy! It can't stay there, and that's what you call alternatively. That's the Krux. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, that's not true!]] And the alternative is – I tell you immediately – because one cannot let Greece go through, but that is a second point... – No, no, no. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Yes, but the question is still: Who pays? And there is the alternative that at least some of those who have earned on the matter are allowed to pay, at least part! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] You know exactly how it is. This is a question of re-indebtedness negotiations, where it cannot be different in the end. Every reasonable economist knows that, one has already been quoted today. [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] - Wait! – Re-indebtedness, which is a matter of several things. Professor Van der Bellen explained it to you that you were still nagging. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes!]] So look out again, the story is like this: First of all, it is a matter of reaching a deadline in respect of these debts. That alone will help. Secondly, there can be a reduction in interest rates. In reality, the economic situation of Greece is such that everyone knows that they can no longer repay it in this way, even if they wanted to. Come now So you and you make us all know, that's all going out? It makes a double sense when there is this debt discount: first, because the Greeks come back on their feet, which you are just pumping away from them, and second, because others are also asked for the cash desk. Who then? – Just the creditors! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I'm saying we're not naïve about that. We know very well that this can't be 1 : 1 because Domino effects are threatening, and then we're back there as maybe in autumn 2008. But in parts, and you refuse to do so, in parts! Some banks are still on the road privately, not all of them nationally. There are private banks in Germany, also small in Austria, in France and elsewhere where. I'm not talking about those outside the euro zone, then I'll be right back. Why should they not at least make this share, as far as one can go, without falling down and endangering the economies? This argument should also be examined once. We have repeatedly said that we cannot be blackmailed by the banks, the so-called system banks. First of all, they take the high risk, then they face up to us here and across Europe. That too should check how far there is a feasibility without endangering the economies. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] And there's a room there! If we continue to do so, on the one hand, the Pleite States – by the way, Carinthia has preexisted it – will always dance around on the nose, as there is also a second that serves at the expense of third parties. First of all, it is the creditors, as described, and the states themselves, who irrantibly enter into these debts at all, and pay any undivided third parties. But this should be regulated differently in the EU in the future. Only we say that must already have consequences, otherwise it doesn't believe us human beings. That makes sense. So the creditors ask for the cash desk and so it's still going out economically. That's a clear alternative. And we expect you, Minister of Finance, to act in Brussels in this way, of course, not only in the interest of Austrian taxpayers, but in the interest of European taxpayers and in the interest of a reasonable economic project. You're always talking about the market economy – yes, right! We also controlled and guided it in the program. Where is the free market now? First the free market produces high prices, is equal to interest, and afterwards the others pay! This is not a market economy, it is the opposite of the market economy! This is a protected workshop for those who have a lot of money to hide it to make even more money with it, and we pay. That's your market economy? And there's no alternative to that? - No! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] This is a well-known institution, the market economy, if you go through broken rules, and this is exactly what it is all about now. But before that, we are still dealing with the question of responsibility, including in Greece, of course, also in Greece. It's clear there was tricked and cheated, that was part of the story. It is clear that the tops – I quote here from a newspaper – have cleared up a lot of the uppers in Greece there, which will not be so easy to drive. It is also clear that they have a much too high military budget. I do not understand at all that we are negotiating with Turkey on the part of the Union, and Greece is a member of the Union, and they are still up against each other. Look You are looking at the military budgets that are based on this conflict! That's completely absurd! We don't pay for that anymore, anyway we shouldn't pay it any more. That's just clear. Mr Bartenstein nods all the time. So you see, there's already a trend change in the house here. Thank you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the question of responsibility: It is quite clear that the Greek governments, not the current but the previous governments, were corrupt to the tops of the hair and falsified. I'll read you a quote: "The next major EU projects – enlargement, constitution, budget – require strong partners in all Member States. Kostas Karamanlis has always been committed to Europe and will help bring Europe forward in these important projects.” Well, who's that, beautiful speaker Barroso? - No, by former Chancellor's bowl. They have always made the wall, even with the conservatives there, which are wrapped into the neck's neck, and have us introduced all of this, although Greece has proved to have shuddered since 2004, since 2004! You've been watching, and now is actually the question: What is Brussels doing to make the ladies and gentlemen responsible? That's also some sort of fraud. Every hendldieb, as they say, is being persecuted in Austria or Greece, isn't it? Then, something has to happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And last of all: Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! In Carinthia, you've been doing this for a long time. Calculate once the debt, the per capita debt of a Carinthian and a Greek and tell me the result in a week! We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7477	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7499	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister and Vice-Chancellor! Today's discussion, even as we have it, deeply affects me. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a source of anger in the belly of many people in our country, not because we are discussing the crisis of a country in southern Europe, but only because of this, Mr Finanzminister, because you have been latently transferred for months to say the untruth, not only the Austrians, but also the people here in Parliament, the MPs, the representatives of the people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For weeks you have dreamed that no tax increases are necessary in Austria. I quote, 21. April 2009: “Whoever is now talking about tax increases or new taxes does not help the economy to jump, but puts it a leg.” 1. September 2009: “I am not willing to introduce new taxes. We already have a tax burden that has washed." And the last quote in this regard is already from this year, namely from 21. February – this is only for your short-sighted economic policy. So a few months ago, two months ago. She said: “The common interest of policy must be to save ourselves, otherwise there must be a threat of tax increases...” And since that 21st. February, since that day, until you have excluded the Austrians from being taxed by further taxes, you are now drumming tax increases because you have called out the national emergency in this country, in Austria, not in Greece, and said without 4 billion € more taxes that you are pulling people out of the pockets, you can no longer bring this country forward. And, look, heureka, for a week, we've heard from you quite different numbers. A week ago, you suddenly got €800 million in the left pocket sack, which you transfer to Greece, just before the weekend, it was suddenly €2 billion that you, I don't know, have hidden in your virtual money store somewhere and found that you transfer to Greece. Since Sunday, since you were alone in Brussels, without informing the government without informing Parliament without informing the people's representatives or the clubmen, in self-glorious glory and manners similar to that of your uncle, we have decided that you are transferring €2.3 billion to the debt tower of Greece, we know that you are thus €2.3 billion of hard-worked tax money for the financing of corruption, for the financing of the tax money evasion and for financing this Greek swamp, which today has led to half-Athenian burns and three complainable deaths. And this €2.3 billion is still taking you in your economic far-sightedness to finance – and the “crown” is right today – with your EU help super-richs, banks and those who have already abandoned taxes in Greece. With the tax money of the Austrians, with the tax money of people in a country that currently has a million people in poverty and 400 000 unemployed! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] Yes, there are families in this country – Mr. Finanzminister, not your family! – who do not know how to afford daily life in any form. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister, with your way of doing this, you – once you have to remember – break the Stability Act by increasing the 2 billion to 2.3 billion on your own. Only on the initiative of the BZÖ and Klubobmanns Bucher can we discuss with His Majesty, Mr Finanzminister, today, how he deals with the Austrian tax money, because of a debt that you actually owe to Parliament. Very pious! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He also laughs about it!]] We are grateful that you have appeared personally. But, Mr Federal Minister, do not expect that even a person in this country has a spark of confidence in you. For a year you have been led to constantly say the untruth. Your own disaster in financial policy, your tax increases cover you with ads of €700,000, with an advertising campaign that has washed, where you explain to people in our country that they have to carry debts through your policies. [[Abg. Booker: We don't have the money at all!]] Yes, Minister of Finance, where do we live? We know that we have to give in to an vanity urge on your part, but I do not realize that we should now pay €700 billion at the height of a financial and economic crisis to ensure that you and your ministry can hide over sad reality and perhaps sell ads to people in this country, that €2.3 billion of tax money suddenly emerges, which you then transfer to Greece. Mr. Federal Minister, you are not a Minister of Finance, at best you are the head of a travel company according to the motto: Go to Greece, your money's already there. Thank you. Josef Pröll. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Finance Minister, several speakers – Josef Bucher, Ewald Stadler, but also colleagues from other political groups – have already shown you other possibilities, as it is hoped that Greece will come out of this crisis in this difficult situation. But again: None of the 8.3 million Austrians are responsible for this disaster, which is tearing Greece down and taking the whole of southern Europe in transit. It wasn't an Austrian and it wasn't an Austrian who dimmed into the euro zone with fake numbers. It was not the Republic of Austria, nor the Austrian taxpayer, who had failed to join the European Union with false documents and false requirements of a conservative and socialist government in Greece. It is not the latent corruption that apparently goes from the top of the state and spreads into the smallest details of society, the reason for Greece being in this state at all, as it is today – a country that you present today as a country that is now starting reforms, a country where people aged 50 are retired. Please tell the Austrians, the women and men who have to retire according to ASVG at the age of 63 and 65! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] You can do this at the Austrian Bundesbahnen! This is your “principle of federal railways”, this concealment of tax money that you now apparently transfer to Greece. They take money to continue trading the chaos. What you're doing is political bankruptcy and aid to negligent Krida. You, Minister of Finance, did not inform Parliament. You have repeatedly told Parliament the untruth. You broke the law. They have been making a policy for the banks for months and years and not for the people. They are illegal in the EU. That is why I am now submitting the following motion for a censure against you: motion for a resolution by Mr Grosz, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler and Ing. Westenthal The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Minister for Finance shall be, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’ I have the request of Mr Grosz, Mag. Stadler and Ing. Westenthaler, because I believe that this request is justified, because I believe you are hopelessly acting that you are acting planlessly, because I believe that you are burdening people in our country with additional tax increases – mineral oil taxes, land taxes – to give the money in the other pocket states, where it is sluggishing, in a large European Kings Club. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] Because that's actually this pyramid game. What happened in the small criminal behaviour as European Kings Club is now a European pyramid game, which is tearing us all down. Its way of doing so will ultimately tear down our national economy with the tradition of this chaos. It will also cost Austrian workers what you are doing here by robbing us of Austrian state resources if you continue to do so and if you continue to leave your car. They rob taxpayers of our state assets, our tax money, with which social benefits are provided, with which public security is maintained. Take this to throw it into a debt tower, into a barrel without a floor, where no one knows how it can develop to this day. Your Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann once told you yesterday that he does not believe that this water will be enough, apart from the fact that money is not a waste water. Your own Federal Chancellor has brought to your attention the short-sightedness of your failure. Federal Minister, step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7621	The motion for a reluctance is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7713	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7735	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! I would like briefly to relativize Mr Molterer's statement. Mr Molterer, even the financial sector, the symbol of capitalism, first and foremost called out loud to the state in the crisis that it has caused itself. So it's not the state's fault of everything you obviously mean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So why is it so important to support Greece? Why is it so important that we give this help? – First of all, it is important that we try to prevent the domino effect, namely a breach of other countries. A second point, which is also not insignificant, is that the Greek economy, despite all of this, is still an important market for Austria. Exports alone amount to € 750 million per year. A rescue of Greece is therefore not only economic, but also politically meaningful. Together with our European partners, we must try to stabilise the euro, keep the euro stable. These are measures that we need to take – and which are important to us. At the same time, however, we also have an important sign, for: It must not be possible for a European state to be forced into its knees by international financial speculators and through unscrupulous rating agencies. This is something we urgently need to resist, of our own, Austrian interest. This is all the more important as it turns out that financial crises always return, that deregulated financial markets are systemically unstable and therefore repeat these crises over and over again. Greece is therefore victims in two ways: On the one hand, it is massively affected by the excesses on the financial market. The second part of the problems – which has already been addressed today – is quite homemade. The structural problems such as high government expenditure and low tax revenue are still due to political and economic abuses such as corruption, tax evasion, shadow economy and speculation. That is why these measures, which have been put in place by the Greek Government, which are also very drastic, are really correct and important. At the same time, however, it must be clear that those who have contributed to these miscarriages must pay in the end. In the European Union, we must therefore insist with all our strength that those who have contributed to the crisis to this extent through responsible soccer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The financial crisis has made very clear the weaknesses in the financial architecture. What we therefore urgently need and what we demand is a pan-European financial transaction tax, is a pan-European bank levy and are, above all, new rules for European financial markets, so that something like this cannot happen again. It is proven that financial and economic crises such as these particularly affect workers and employees, but also pensioners. These must be afraid of their jobs, while investors have long secured their money. The €8 billion will have already flown away from Greece. If, for good reason, at European level, we are telling the Greeks what conditions they have to fulfil, then we must not forget the social component, ladies and gentlemen. Greece will only be able to recover permanently if this recovery is based on social justice. Now, just letting the so-called little people hurt again only leads to a worse miser. The European Union is therefore called upon to place this social component at the centre of its action. Ladies and gentlemen! The lessons from this crisis must be learned quickly, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, better international regulation and control of the financial sector must be a central concern, otherwise, sooner or later, a new crisis threatens us. The question is always: Who's the next victim? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7808	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7829	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! We are defending our common position here and today. European currency. That's what it's all about. She is indispensable for us Austrians. But it's also about more. I would like to quote Angela Merkel from today's government statement: "Europe must decide whether it wants to continue the path of the past. This way was too often because problems were rarely mentioned directly by name, that they were subsequently not consistently addressed enough that it was hoped too often that everything would take place and somehow go well.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way we want to go. We need learning ability: Learning skills at the European level and at the Greek level. I understand the anger and uncertainty of many people in Greece too. I am against the fact that the Greeks are being destroyed here and there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I wish Prime Minister Papandreou more luck in trying to achieve what is now ahead of him than the Prime Minister before him, because all the Heads of Government in Greece have committed themselves with the intention of creating the craftsmanship of corruption. None of them made it so far. May it be Giorgos Papandreou with the backwind of the European Union and also with the strict Angela Merkel – because we owe it to her decisively that there are no barrels without soil here, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not agree with Alexander Van der Bellen – I really can end the corruption and bring about a profound change of course, yes, a cultural change. Greece has just crashed by 13 ranks in the International Corruption Index of Transparency International last year and is currently in place 71, together with Romania, Bulgaria and Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a condition! It is not only something that completely discourages the population and leaves no room for youth, it is not only morally objectionable, it is also extremely harmful to economic policy. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The European Union has been asked as a community of values, because we have not only united into an economic community and a monetary union – these 16 states – but above all into a community of values. We can not only quote this community of values in Sunday's speeches, we also need it now that we together need to realize that corruption is an evil that has to be eradicated and for which the European level has to be taken into account. We need to get used to looking more closely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must have the same rules for large and small people in the European Union, which are also consistently used in the same way in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is no coincidence that even smaller countries are under pressure. I am grateful to Angela Merkel for maintaining this extensive self-esteem of the Greeks, a very hard program – no doubt! – but a programme that can also lead to a change of course in Greek society. Finally, this debate concerns our community of values, the legal community of Europe/European Union. But it is also a question of the primacy of financial markets policy. And I fully agree with what the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance said: We need there as a learning process and as a process of implementation. since, full transparency towards our partners, but also control, sanctions and intervention. Only in this way will we be able to successfully defend our common European currency, but also our common European credibility and the community of values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7917	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. Your group's remaining speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7938	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! High house! Now it's clear: Austria pays €2.3 billion for the Greek aid. The question is: Is this money ever coming back? And even experts doubt. I remember Sunday, the “press hour”. There Mr. Universitätsprofessor Felder said that he doubted very strongly that this money would ever come back. It is absolutely understandable that the Austrians, the workers, employees, farmers, and so on, have a murder rage, because on the one hand, they are threatened with new taxes, with higher taxes, on the other hand, one is immediately ready to provide €2.3 billion for the Greeks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Finance Minister, you said yesterday that's populism. But I'm telling you, our population sees it that way. That's just the way it is. Not with us, ladies and gentlemen, not with the Freedom Party! Firstly, we are opposed to the Greek aid in this form, as it stands here, and secondly, we are opposed to tax being increased or new taxes being introduced. Rehabilitation of the Austrian government budget also goes without new taxes. That's what we've known since Sunday. In the meantime, Mr. Universitätsprofessor Felder, Dr. Leitl of the Chamber of Commerce and Dr. Androsch are joining us. They all say it goes without new taxes. Mr Federal Minister, you are mistaken if you say that there is no alternative in the question of Greece. We discussed this yesterday in the Committee on Budgets. And I am glad that Mr. Professor Van der Bellen is now joining our economic policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But this is a great mistake!]] – Doctor, unfortunately God is! We talked yesterday about another possibility. And I'll explain to you what options there are. At first, however, some things are still ahead. It is not the Greek population that we are defying, not the Greek population, but the Greek governments that have caused this disaster. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Greeks have smuggled into the euro zone with false figures. They have lived over their economic conditions. They misinformed us. Even the deficit for 2009 had to be corrected from 12 percent to 14 percent. And there are reports that next year the Greeks will have 7 billion euros spent on warships and Eurofighters on the bill – with counter-businesses for France and Germany, admitted. Only the Austrians are the fools again. The numbering works of Greece are no longer trusted. Where's the control?, I wonder. This must not be unsanctioned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be the wrong signal. As a result, all the other so-called PIGS states immediately come and scream and grievance for help. And it's going on. Portugal is already downgraded by Moody’s. Portugal is already on the same path. So, what would you do? – A thorough revision of all the figures and establishment of a truly loadful and promising restructuring plan. No money was supposed to flow before. Let's look at the dimension! It has already been mentioned today: It's about €300 billion. 30 percent of them hold Switzerland, the USA and the United Kingdom. These would now be totally empty in this action. They do not contribute to the restoration of Greece at all. The Greek foreign debt must therefore be severely reorganised with partial abandonment of all creditors, for example with a discount of one third. This would put the Greeks in the situation of falling from 120 percent of GDP to 80 percent. Mr. Federal Minister, you said last time on TV: 2 instead of 5 billion €. I say: If it continues as you have planned, it costs Austria 2 and 5 billion €. In my presentation, it would best trigger €1.5 billion for the banks. To the banks: It is actually an injustice that banks first earn high interest rates, enrich themselves with the government bonds of the Greeks, and because it is now burning because the hat burns, turning away the risk to taxpayers. That's just not all right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I assume that you will not comply with my ideas, I put forward a motion for a resolution. This is the next possibility. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, I believe it should be checked whether it is not in breach of EU law in the area of Bail-Out provisions of the kind. 103 para. 1 ETUC should come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8036	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8106	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. 5 minutes of your group's remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8129	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, I discussed with my students the title headline of the “economist” in the economics course, which was – as in the German translation –: You have three more years to take care of the euro to save it! – Then, in various articles and in the editorial, it was also about the question of Greece, and all that we have heard today, about corruption and mismanagement and misinformation. That is one part, but the other, of course, is the economic and financial side. And there the students have repeatedly asked the same questions – and, Minister of Finance, these questions ask not only the students, but also the people, the population in general – namely: What would that mean if the euro did not exist? How high will inflation and the loss of value be? What would it mean if Germany left? Are you going to join Austria in the euro area? All these are questions that have already been giving rise to experts in the various trade journals for weeks and months. Mr Minister, you already have a question to answer quite clearly: Faith You are actually saying that the package that is now being presented for Greece is also the solution to all the problems we have in the financial markets? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No one said that!]] [[Abg. Gahr: No one claimed that!]] It is not, and it will not be, because one has the Greek crisis and the financial crisis in common. – The Greek crisis will not only concern Greece alone, we have already heard about the other countries, which are also heavily affected by budget deficits, of debt which they can hardly pay anymore. – The crisis in Greece and the financial crisis have one thing in common: They've been on the run for years, they've all known, and nothing has been done. Nothing has been done! And this, Mr. Finanzminister, is also our accusation: We have known since the financial crisis that there must be a consistent conversion of the financial market architecture not only in Europe but worldwide, and nothing has happened so far! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are the first bubbles to build on the markets, there are record profits among the various banks and investment funds, there are of course also the bonuses payments again – and ultimately, all the announcements made a year ago, despite, nothing has happened, nothing at the wide level. If we discuss the fact that the Greek package should in particular benefit Austria, as some colleagues have done today, then this has already been given the right light: The €750 million of exports that have been raised, Mrs Colleague, are just 0.6 percent of total exports. That's not the point. It is not about this individualistic view from Austria, it is about a large total, and that is, Europe and that is Euro! Finally, the euro has also led to Europe becoming stronger and some have become. I therefore also believe that it is important to put the measures in place here now and to provide the support. Nevertheless, it has long been time for a reform of the financial market – and today you have the opportunity to vote with us, because many have also announced this – unless it is by creating an EU rating agency that is independent, unless it is by introducing financial transaction taxes. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We think that in the sense of a forward-looking financial and European policy, this request is worthy of approval, and we ask for your consent in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8196	On the condition that the motion for a resolution tabled was tabled with the aim of the National Council's decision, it shall also be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8286	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8307	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! It is important to delete those things that are correctly said by the opposition. Of course, it is quite right for Klubobmann to point out that at least for five years, if not more, everyone who reads the paper knew that in Greece, the data for Eurostat is in fact not what is real. They all agreed to live with it. And it's also right what Professor Van der Bellen said that the ach so wise markets until this year, 2010, did not respond at all. There was 2009 – the “spiegel” points out – already in spring an initial speculation against Greece by means of CDS. At that time it was a statement by the then German Finance Minister Steinbrück, in which he explicitly said: If any of the euro countries are in trouble, the whole will have to be helpful! – That was enough at that time. But now we have to ask ourselves: Why did the 2010 situation come so that we are now in that malaise, in which not only Greece but all of Europe is located? – The answer can not only be that you say: The Greeks are to blame! They don't work, they don't pay taxes! – By the way, that almost has racist appeal, just as Mr Grosz does. – There are just as many Greeks there who have a hard lot that often have to have two to three jobs to spend their family. And those who are protesting today – and this is what Mr Vilimsky is right – are not those who have caused this crisis in any form but who, in the case of average public service references of €700 and our price level, do not know how they will take the reduction by €100 or €200. But we have to ask ourselves what is not all right in the overall system. In this overall system there are some who have taken billions out of this situation. By the way, these were not, as honourable Member Vilimsky suspected, mostly our or the German banks, but it was those hedge funds that, on the vehicle CDS – a pure bet! – have implemented self-fulfilled prophecies. And they have successfully acquired billions, and today they dictate politics in Europe. No more alone money governs the world, no: Bets govern the world! There we have to go into the parade in the medium term, so to speak. As long as we were a currency snake, all central banks defended each other when the attack started. We have no more tools in our hands to answer! And there's something we need to develop! Mr Finanzminister, that is to say, the system of European Monetary Fund, joint action, but also clear rules for a coordinated economic policy will be the agenda of the future. With regard to the absence of alternatives, in order to address the comments made by Mr Kogler, both are right: Finance Minister Pröll said that there is no alternative today except to take over the debt for Greece. To do something else, it is now about months too late. But it is also right for Mr Kogler to say that perhaps we could have acted at an earlier date and in time. There again Professor Van der Bellen is right: There's a culprit, and the culprit is called Angela Merkel, among other things. With a view to the country elections in North Rhine-Westphalia such an egg course for two months is not responsible! [[Call from the government bank: “Eiertanz”!]] – Thank you: Eiertanz. [[New call from the government bank: No, not ‘Eierkurs’!]] By the way, Mr Bucher was written in the main book: The use of a situation of the uninformedness of the population in order to make à la “Image newspaper” mobile against a Greek aid would also be the same kind of policy. And I hope that the opposition in Austria does not choose this kind of policy. Now we have to work through together, we have to take over the funding for Greece. But to one thing, you are cordially invited: to take a course together with us, which at least Austria has agreed to regulate all of these Odyssey business, to ensure that speculators are restricted, orderly financial markets, the enforcement of a financial transaction tax and the enforcement of proper tax payments across Europe. Professor Van der Bellen – this is the last one to say – was right once again when he said that at 32 percent tax and tax rate, the Greeks will never get out of their situation. There is also the following: We will need an orderly wage policy across Europe, but we will also need an orderly fiscal policy. And the day will come when we also need harmonisation in tax policy and Europe-wide rules in these taxes. Perhaps the financial transaction tax is a first step. If Sepp Pröll does this, he's supposed to have all our confidence, and I'd give it to him now. Then he can go out to fight for it. – I wish you had it! Thank you. [[towards Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8362	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8383	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Perhaps to refresh my memory – the memory is often very short – I especially dedicate a quote from September 2008 to my colleague Strache and my colleague Bucher. Immediately after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the French Finance Minister Lagarde found: We have committed ourselves that we will not accept a European case of Lehman Brothers. – And she has rightly said this, because we now know that the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the lack of willingness of the US government to prevent it have triggered a chain reaction that has subsequently plunged the world into a very, very dramatic situation. [[Abg. Bucher: But this is an investment house! That's a difference!]] What we do not want, Mr Bucher, is for Greece to become a Lehman Brothers for the euro zone, for Europe and, of course, for Austria. We do not want to do that because we must not want it and cannot answer it. [[Abg. Booker: I can't do that either!]] – It was once written in the main book. If you do not want it, at least we agree on the objective. [[Abg. Booker: I can't do that either!]] And because we do not want to do so, because this would trigger the chain reaction that could jump from Portugal to Ireland and Spain, and would probably trigger the Super-GAU for the European Monetary Area, with the consequences that Professor Van der Bellen has already described very plastically today, namely a decline in currencies, a rise in interest rates, a collapse of economic growth and unemployment numbers, which we all cannot wish for, and ultimately serious loss of prosperity, Europe had to act and have to act consistently also our Minister of Finance. And they – late Europe, our finance minister and our government – have acted in time and have already prevented this threatening chain reaction in the approach with the Greece Stabilisation Package. And that's right because it's necessary and alternative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should also remember that we are now facing the European Day. On Sunday, 9th. May, is Europe's day. We will remove the strengths of Europe. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you know what I am about to do? Do you want to do May? Mother's day!]] 60 years ago, I would also like to remind Robert Schuman of his statement, which was a founding declaration for Europe. And I would also like to point out – and this has not been a long time ago, ladies and gentlemen! – that, at the height of the financial crisis, especially Austria as a small economy benefited greatly from the fact that at that time the stability of the euro zone prevented one from successfully speculating against our economy, as was the case against Hungary. We were very, very grateful. And that is why it is now useful and right to support Greece in the sense of solidarity and European responsibility, for the sake of well-understanding European interest and therefore also of Austrian interest. Why is the situation so dangerous? - Because it's about trust! And we all know that the loss of confidence in the banks was partly responsible for the dynamics of the crisis. And now it is about maintaining confidence in the States and their capacity and willingness to act in solidarity. This is very important because the lack of confidence in the financial economy at the time could be compensated for by confidence in the states. This is a key question for the economic development of the future. And if so much is at stake, our 2.3 billion € is an amount that is more than justified. We give him as a credit, i.e. interest, and the banks – and this has been incomprehensiblely criticized today – have committed both by the Minister of Finance and in other countries to keep their credit lines open to Greece now and for the To maintain the duration of the period and thus to further strengthen confidence in the stabilisation measures. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: So that they continue...!]] All in all, correct and indispensable measures: For the future, however, in Europe we have to take account of the penetrating consequences that have already been mentioned many times today in order to ensure that it remains a unique crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8479	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8500	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High Parliament! Today, as a Member of Parliament, we have for the first time had the opportunity to express your views on the billions of gifts you have already given in Brussels, Mr Finanzminister. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] It's a decided thing – you said it yourself. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, that's not true!]] While you have kindly voted with your coalition partner, you have not asked the House, the Parliament, which has the real budgetary authority in our democratic system. You say today that we should say to a check you signed, where we do not even know the height where the amount is not even used! Weeks ago it was called, 800 million, today it's said to be 2.3 billion. And the Federal Chancellor has already said: Well, it can be a little more. Today, they demand from us and the Austrian population that we say that we sign this uncovered check – because the budgetary cover in the budget is not given – without knowing what the financial impact is. You, Mr Finanzminister, say that there is no alternative. – We believe that this is the wrong way, and there is probably an alternative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question that arises is: Do the Greeks even want this way that you support here? – Mrs Plassnik has said that there will be a change of course in Greek society. Mrs. Plassnik, don't you read the newspapers? Don't you see far away? Have you not pursued reporting today on how Greek society is changing? A day after the European Union has promised €110 billion, the chaos in Greece has broken out! Yesterday, transparency was revealed at the Acropolis: “Folkers of Europe, raise yourselves!” or: “Get out of this country!” – Is that the change of course in Greece that you guarantee us, Mrs. Kolle gin Plassnik? – In reality, it is precisely those groups, namely the trade unions, who are forcing and agreeing to the billions of gifts here, who are below in Greece to ensure that banks are lit that public life is paralysed. The Greeks are, in fact, opposed to this savings program that connects you to this billion gift. Hundreds of thousands of officials lay down their jobs, in schools they reach out, the authorities are not occupied, the trash is no longer driving, bus lines are standing, journalists are strike, and the air traffic controllers have brought air traffic over Greece to a halt. Minister for Finance, believe Do you really believe that, under these conditions, Greece will be stabilised and will ever be able to repay interest rates in the coming years? - We say that will not be the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, it is also to be questioned: Who do you use billions of dollars? Who's the use of it? – As has been said today, it benefits banks in the first place. Here your special role as Minister of Finance will still be to be questioned to what extent there is no compatibility. It is always the same group, Raiffeisen International, which has committed itself as the largest bank in Greece. Who benefits from this billion-dollar business: It's useful to the banks. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: That's not true! Bullshit!]] But it is especially useful – and now, please, the colleagues from the Greens are watching – to the arms industry! As we transfer the billions to Greece, we find the “South German newspaper” a few weeks ago: Billion orders on fighter aircraft, taxpayers are spent on tankers and submarines. That is also the answer why the German Chancellor has hesitated for so long. Yes, of course you've been waiting! And read in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung”, who has been the beneficiaries of the arms orders: of course Germany! Of course you waited until the orders were signed, and then you agreed. Austria makes it different, Mr. Finanzminister says: Of course, we pay, our population likes to join us, and then we may negotiate counter-businesses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or did you agree with Greece to a single transaction before the tax funds flow? We say that there is an alternative to the Federal Government's operation, and I ask you, Minister of Finance: What would happen? Do you work with an employee who's been lying to you for years, leading you behind the light, giving you wrong numbers? – You would separate yourself from this employee! Greece has been lying to the European Union since 1997, has presented false figures and continues to deceive us. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] We should separate ourselves from Greece. It is not the wish of the population, and you have not, above all, asked the Austrians whether they agree with this procedure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we will also submit a request to the main committee for a People's Survey in accordance with Article 49b, namely the implementation of the measures planned by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Grosz:... with wrong numbers!]] We believe that the Austrian population is here on the side of the liberals who have no pleasure in this process.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8620	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the German Chancellor's veto against useless grants to Greece. If you are in favour of the motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. If you're in favour of the objection, I'll ask you for a sign. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the possibility of exclusion from monetary union. If you are in favour of the motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the fundamental reform of the European financial market. If you are in favour of this request, I ask you for a sign. – This request is rejected. [[16:35:05]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8711	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Dr Moser, colleagues, for the establishment of an investigation committee on the investigation of the sale of real estate in the federal property under the former Federal Minister of Finance. Karl-Heinz Grasser, with a view to possible political influence and other inconsistencies and clarification of political responsibility. The application has now been distributed and therefore does not need to be read. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8797	We are going into the debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons, and the debate is about 5 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mrs Moser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8825	Mr President. [[In the direction of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:]] Mr. Divorcing Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oils: You should stay there!]] The questions: What are the taxpayers of Europe paying?, who is the answer?, what consequences are being drawn? were not only the subject of the debate over the last three hours, no, they are also the central question in the Causa BUWOG, the central question for the establishment of such an investigation committee, because it is about the largest real estate property of the Republic that has been sold. More than 60 000 German-owned apartments have been sold cheaply in the Schüssel/Grasser era; Average price: €30 000 per apartment. That was a bargain! This bargain was made possible by the system Grasser and by the support of the ÖVP. In this bargain it was cut several times – documented several times, several times in steps. In the case of questions: Who's the looter?, Who's the one who's putting this povoir on the market?, Is the Lehman Brothers?, Is that the CA IB?, Is the Rothschild or anyone else?, there has already been cut. The Minister for Finance has issued the following director: He wants Lehman! Lehman has the taxpayer, the taxpayer has cost at least € 3 million more of fees than the original best bidder CA IB. The Minister of Finance is still challenging his influence, although it is documented in writing. That's why we need an investigation committee! We want to make it clear that we want to have a precise reflection of the processes, and we want to take responsibility for those who are politically responsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want specific parliamentary clarification of the situation. Award of the loot – first point. We need further clarifications. We need to know: Why could commissions be paid for the transmission of information on the best bidder price? Why is the real-estate financing of exactly 1 million more than the original best bidder, the CA Immo? Why? We know by the discovery work, by the discovery of news magazines, by the discovery of Members: In the last decisive days, or perhaps even hours, there was a central unsealing body, either in the ministry or in the personal environment of the former Minister of Finance, which passed on the purchase price the CA Immo wanted to present to the real estate finance. Why? Why was that possible? Who was that? What role did the Minister of Finance play in this? – These questions need to be answered. We can only answer that if there is an investigation committee. I like to address the subject of courts – we have discussed the subject before. On the one hand, there was also a request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry already in autumn, when a major discussion took place in the media as a result of the announcement of commission payments that have not been taxed. We have discussed this again here, and your argument was then: Let's work the dishes first. All right, now the courts have been working for seven months. What's the result? – The former Minister of Finance Grasser, who is also the subject of the presentation of the facts, has not even been heard, no! His accounts have not been opened, no! There's no house searches either, no! All of this has been done with the other defendants. Grasser is a citizen of other categories to make him a judge, although he himself wants to have it different. This is the interesting and paradox, he says again: I'd like to make a statement at last! He also says: I want a committee of inquiry! Let's give Karl-Heinz Grasser the opportunity! Let us give him the opportunity to vote today for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. We also need the Committee of Inquiry for a second reason. I have nothing against the fact that the judicial surveys have priority, but they must have real priority. What's it look like now? – Seven months have gone to the country, the prosecutor has changed, and a young person has had to re-enter. He has a single expert who assists him in the entire Causa Real Estate Finance. All of them are aware that the question of the state-owned housing companies is, so to speak, a sub-theme, a special case in the large Causa Immofinanz/Constantia Bank. Here one expert and one prosecutor are full-time or full-time and two second-time jobs. How should this compendium of financial instruments, of financial transactions in a timely manner, be dealt with in such a way as to achieve a result? . I am immediately in favour of a speedy work being done there, that we have a result and that we examine parliamentaryly. Only, the problem is that the legal equipment, the legal staff, is far too thin than it could drive the speedy processing of these causas. That is why we must act in a parliamentary way. We must also act in a parliamentary way because it is a matter of political responsibility, and above all because otherwise the limitation is threatened. In the event of abuse of office, in the event of a breach of official secrecy, the limitation period threatens, and if we do not clarify it in good time, there is, as it were, zero responsibility to have zero consequences. You can't want all this! You, as parliamentarians, are asked to control the government, to control ministers, to finally make a pure table with ex-financial ministers. Take care of that! On the one hand, let us help the courts by personalising them, and on the other hand, let us help with parliamentary control! I'm really not a lonely caller in the desert, no, we have allies on a broad front. I've already mentioned the former Minister of Finance. The President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors sees this as the primary case of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. We have already discussed all the inconsistencies in the Court of Auditors, even in plenary. Everyone has admitted – each of you, whether from the SPÖ, from the BZÖ, from the FPÖ, also from the ÖVP – everyone thought: Yeah, that's an investigation! And I say: here and now, otherwise the time will run away from us! The courts or prosecutors are not able to act accordingly. The Minister of Finance wants it, the former President of the Court of Auditors wants it. In principle, you have also said that you want it. We want it now: Support us now! It's not about bagatelles, it's about volumes. Think about it again: 961 million €, so to speak, an Okkasion, a bargain price for these over 61,000 apartments – think about it! Think about the fee for Lehman Brothers: almost €10 million. Think of the commission, the commission, so to speak, in the back, over the high-level agency and so on. Meischberger: offshore accounts in Liechtenstein, so to speak, then wonderfully locked over Cyprus there. And then: Where did they go? That's what it belongs to. That is something really hard to do, because it's not just about tax evasion. It is a question of infidelity as a whole, as it is about abuse of power, and it is also about restrictive agreements et cetera. These are things that are subject to criminal law, and that is to be seen in concrete political and parliamentary terms, such as this network of friends, as this specific network has worked. I'm allowed to bring it to your attention again in person. There is the ex Finance Minister Grasser, who has a really old nice friend, so to speak, one with whom you go through thick and thin, Mr Walter Meischberger. This one has a wonderful agency that advises, with which he makes, as it were, hundreds of thousands of revenues through network-like consulting, timely transmission of information. This gentleman is so close to the ex-finance minister that he is even a witness. Close cooperation, private and also professional. They have joint companies, they have worked together in a wonderful way almost until the last autumn. So, what if the wall was closed in the question of the BUWOG purchase price? – That is where we need to investigate parliamentaryly! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: No one believes that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your argument was always: As long as judicial proceedings are pending, the witnesses in the investigation committee may decide on the statement. That was your argument. - Yes, it is! There are only several persons who are not subject to judicial proceedings. These are key persons: These are officials in the Ministry of Finance, these are people who were members of the award commission, the evaluation commission. They all have no judicial proceedings, they can be heard at any time on the grounds of truth here in Parliament. Make it possible! Accelerator modifiers It is also the judicial surveys! This is, so to speak, a double strategy element that we must pay attention to in order to finally return to the first rule of law and second political culture in Austria. This is not about banalities, not only about Micky-Maus-summs or no responsibility, but it is really about central information in central government agencies, about a network of friends, who probably not only worked together in the Causa BUWOG, but also closely cooperated in other areas where the Republic has also been harmed. This has to be done politically. There we need a reconnaissance, a illumination, not only of the system grass, but ultimately of the system bowl. I believe that this also has a personal interest in both ÖVP delegates and SPÖ delegates as well as BZÖ delegates and FPÖ delegates. I can't see that this is being pushed back to the long bank, that people can get back on the road and that the "White West" is not going around, even though she wants to say it herself! Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I do not see it at all if you are again opposed to us today. They won't achieve anything. On the contrary, the public will be slightly outraged. The public does not now accept that people who have long had to be heard do not continue to confess their innocence again and again, but they do not allow this innocence to be really examined more precisely. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] That's why: Voices It is for the sake of political culture, the pre-priority of a procedure and the overall control of the National Council! Thank you. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8916	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8960	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are in the House with a Déjà-vu experience, because we have the same discussion on the 15th. ==References== I'm known to be a fan of investigation committees, but only if they have a sense. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But you can do it too!]] A decision to set up an investigative committee BUWOG, Mrs Colleague, what would that mean? What result would that have? – This is quite simple: Then Grasser, Hochegger, Plach, Meschberger would sit down and say: I'm going to make the statement! You would be totally legitimate in saying that that is the right thing to do if there is a ongoing procedure. What would the justice do about it? – It would say: Now we are disabled, there are now demands for files, we cannot continue to investigate. What would the people you, Mrs Colleague, say? – It would say: Now we definitely have no confidence in the rule of law! Mrs. Moser, if you say that Grasser is burning on it, it seems to me to be a bit naïve. You won't believe that! What about the seriosity and credibility of Mr Grasser? Grasser sat down at a press conference yesterday or before yesterday, and the basis of his attempt to clean-up was that he claimed that his former office employee, Ramprecht, had, under the duty of truth in Parliament, declared to the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that in the case of BUWOG, everything would be all right. That's where the chickens laugh! How is that really according to the Rules of Procedure? – Of course, there is no obligation of truth in the Standing Subcommittee, unlike an investigative committee. Now the amazing observer is wondering: Does Mr Grasser not know at all? This is completely excluded, however, because Grasser was both an informant in the Committee’s Standing Subcommittee and a witness – in the case of Eurofighter – in a committee of inquiry. I'm, honestly, wondering about the lawyers who flank him there. The reputation they still have after that is their own thing. But if even “the press” writes: “Grasser and duty of truth. The defense offensive of the ex-minister has an essential flaw of beauty", then the credibility – excuse me, Mrs. Moser – that Mr. Grasser unseals there against zero tends. Justice is in place – that is the point, and that is why the Investigation Committee is now counterproductive – with more emphasis, I am 100% with you. Things are on the table when there is an invoice from a lobbyist who pays for Mr. Grasser's vacation with accompaniment, or if there is an e-mail where, so to speak, it is called upon to finally pay the receipts for the mortgage, for the intermediate deal. - And there should be no opening of accounts?- Oh, my God! It's up there! I do not understand at all – and that is on the verge of a judicial scandal – that a public prosecutor can say that the facts are not sufficient. Mrs Moser, we will not be able to say to the authorities which do not work as it should be: We can't do anything now, because we have to get the files into Parliament! An acceleration of the judicial procedure – I can't imagine that at all. Mrs Moser's request calls for "the submission of documents by the Federal Ministries of Finance and Justice, as well as of acts of the financial and judicial authorities". - There's a dazzling excuse. As you know, I can no longer believe that against Grasser in this matter there is no repressive evidence. Obviously, there will be some sort of promifactor. After the judicial surveys, I feel that the Committee of Inquiry is essential. It's about the system black-blue, it's about deceiving state assets in a big style, it's about the economy of friends, it's about a moral decay. This manifests itself at Grasser, which is true, and this system will also be exposed via the Key Person Grasser. It is about democratic hygiene and also about prevention. This is also a matter of political investigation in criminal proceedings, as such a cause is to be excluded for all futures.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9018	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9039	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Moser, of course, it is necessary to clarify things that have now become reckless in the course of this BUWOG affair, in the case of whether commission payments have been made, whether influence has been taken by ministries or others in this context. But: That is why justice is determined in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. I personally have not lost confidence in justice, Mrs. Colleague. I believe that justice is capable of identifying this – if we leave it alone. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: If you equip them better!]] They've been decided lately that they'll be better equipped. There are additional prosecutors, judges and appropriate judicial officials. I am convinced that we will come to a conclusion that it will certainly be determined independently. If, following the judgment of those authorities or of the Court of First Instance, it is found that criminal consequences have to be suffered, they shall also be withdrawn. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's been since 2005, that's the problem!]] If it turns out that there are also political consequences, a corresponding committee of inquiry will also be supported by the EIAs in this House. But I do not think that – you have done it yourself today, Mrs Colleague – once again to break a committee of inquiry from the fence, which, as we have heard several times today, fails to ensure that the persons concerned refuse the statement because a ongoing procedure has been initiated against them. In addition, as has been argued today, the persons involved in the margins can also be heard and questioned by the judiciary. I am confident that we will have a good outcome in this matter, which serves justice. This investigation committee would probably once again be a media spectacle which, of course, the opposition parties would like to use. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9096	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9118	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is clear: The proposal is certainly from the political re-examination of the Green Paper. If the names of the grassers and bowls fall, they will always appear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] However, not every request other than purely factual reasons is unwarranted. In this case, I have to give Mr Moser the right, and I cannot give the two previous speakers of ÖVP and SPÖ right. This is certainly not a case where one leans back and says: The independent courts will decide, and then we will see if political consequences are necessary! No, this is a case that has gone through, we say, six of the last ten years of Austrian politics, 2000 to 2006. It's just the last member of a chain. Among this chain is the affair of the Eurofighter Euromillions or then 90 million Schillings, I believe, in Erika Rumpold and her PR-Institut, the story of the 300 000 for the homepage, the history of Meinl International Power and now also the BUWOG history. There is an unmistakable political dimension. There is a systemic error to take over the discussion on the front line. And this systemic error can be very likely to come to life with a committee of inquiry or look at what is really systemically wrong. The reference to the independent courts is not enough – even if you have every confidence in these courts. We are indeed, as we have seen in the discussion on the previous point, in a situation where we have imported massive standards of the Third World into our now further political homeland. Mr Plassnik told us where Greece, but also our EU partners Bulgaria and Romania are in the international corruption sector – where the black African states, Peru and the like are located. They are on the ten-part scale, with 10 not at all corrupt, somewhere at 3.4 to 3.5. This is, for example, below the value of Turkey and, for example, in the area of Syria. That is to say, we have imported into the immediate environment in our political upper association here standards of the Third World, standards of a way of thinking determined by corruption and the vetting economy. It is therefore more important than ever to try to keep the field as clean as possible in your own country – and to offer Paroli as far as possible the contamination that threatens us from there. Not only should Austria not become Greece financially – in which we agree – but it should not become Greece also inside, with regard to corruption or the cleanliness of administration. And if Greek or, if you want to, Bulgarian, Romanian or similar states come into action, I think, time for an investigation committee! That is why we are going to support the Greens' request in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9184	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9234	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! May. Grasser has great luck: first of all, that he was an important politician of the Freedom Party. He is lucky to have been an important politician of the Austrian People's Party. And he's third lucky he was an important BZÖ politician. Because that means when the three-colored power. Grasser is to be pursued politically and if the business of the three-colored power. If we are to examine grass, there is a danger that Members will consider themselves in three political groups in this House: Is it just the grass, or does it happen to anyone of us? Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ, I can tell you one thing: I'm sure it's going to happen to someone of yours – because you were all there! The plunderings in this Republic by an organized group of friends led by Mr Mag. Grassers were carried out, were initially liberal lootings, then they were plunders of the BZÖ, and all the time they were lootings with the support of the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: No, no, no!]] The chief plunderer of this republic would have become not only finance ministers, but also party chairman of the Austrian People's Party, and today would perhaps be the most important coalition partner of Werner Faymann and Josef Cap. Why do we want to investigate now? – Because it’s about billions of damage and because it’s a political culture that has made it possible in this Republic to steal everything from a group of friends around a finance minister, which is not non- and nailproof. These are organized political theorems in this Republic, where no law and no public property has been respected, only one law has been applied: What's in my pocket, it's in my pocket! That was the time of Mag. Grasser. That was the time of the bowl/hair/grasser group. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is impossible!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Now, a number of Members – and I believe my colleague Herbs – are saying: Yes, we want to investigate that. But always, when it comes to such cases, Austrian justice is established. Whenever it comes to something of this kind, there is an advertisement, mostly by representatives of the SPÖ, sometimes also by representatives of the Greens. Col. Herbs, I'm asking you one: Will the SPÖ give up advertising in the future only so that you think a parliamentary investigation committee can work? Will the SPÖ wait for worn-out processes, where prosecutors fall into strange states of political paralysis and simply a former finance minister and simply no longer invite and not agree? That's not just about grass, let's take the case of Platter: Affaire Zogaj, massive suspicion of official abuse, illegal EKIS surveys, persecution of a whole refugee family with illegal methods – and Platter has not yet been agreed upon. I can list you a long list of ministers and ex-ministers who are not persecuted and not consulted. If it has succeeded in putting the prosecutor's office into deep sleep, colleague Herbs, will Parliament not work and control until the prosecutor's office wakes up? Do we have to stand on the bed of the prosecutor's office and ask: Please, please, wake up, because we would like to conduct a parliamentary investigation committee a few years later!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] No, it's not. All the important committees of inquiry – from “Lucona” and “Noricum” to the Eurofighters to the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the last committee of inquiry – have been led, although justice has been determined in parallel! That's what the justice has done well: Suddenly, the prosecutors began to hear again, and suddenly the prosecutors began to carry out house searches again, and suddenly the justice system worked again – because there is only one institution that can motivate a politically slumbery judicial system in a way that motivates them to carry out their duties, and that is the Austrian National Council! That is another reason why we need an investigation committee because Austrian justice can be very quickly awakened in parliamentary terms! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] If in the end some perpetrators from FPÖ, BZÖ and ÖVP are brought to their punishment, then the case is justice. If these perpetrators are finally made politically responsible with many years of delay, then this is an important task of the Austrian National Council, which we have to do together urgently! Thank you. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9338	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9359	Mr President. High house! Mr. Pilz, I am not suspected of being a particularly close friend of Karl-Heinz Grasser... – No, never! [[Call for the call.]] In all forms: I have always thought it one of the biggest blenders in this Republic and have been confirmed in all my reviews. There was only one who had reached out to him, he was once vice chancellor. So I am not someone who needs to protect Mr Grasser – on the contrary. I am also not suspected of being a special friend of the Austrian public prosecutor's office. Mr Jarolim, Mr Donnerbauer, Mr Herzegovina, the first question: How is it possible that the corruption prosecutor's office is not responsible for this case? - Well, you're wearing the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] How is that possible? That means to take it forward immediately: I am very much in favour of a committee of inquiry, but it must have a different target. This is not primarily about the clarification of this case, but about the inactivity of the judicial system. How is it possible that the wrong prosecutor – I say once again: in the access of the ÖVP – is active in this case? Then some people explain! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... very critical!]] - Yes, but that's your government partner! How is it possible that no account openings and no house searches take place at Grasser? And how is it possible that to search the house and to get the results of the house search that took place at Walter Meischberger, such an iron dance is made? Why is this happening at the wrong prosecutor's office? We have set up our own corruption attorneyship, which is now... – Please? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: On 1. January...!]] Other cases have also migrated to the corruption prosecutor's office, of course, there they belong to. By the way, Mr Rosenkranz: How is it possible that FPÖ has never taken care of this case? At the guest of honour of the birthday celebration of the party chairman, i.e. at Meischberger, a house search is carried out and then an eiertanz is performed about what was found there. And all of this at the prosecutor's office, which would basically no longer be responsible. But at that public prosecutor's office, which we have set up specifically for such cases, the investigations do not take place at all, although the act would be abandoned there! Please clarify this with your Minister of Justice! I know she's not your party, but that would be a rewarding task, for: My case will not be to clarify what justice has to clarify, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, but to clarify my subject matter of investigation, why justice does not once again clarify what it would have to clarify! [[Call for the call.]] - Procuratorate, yes, but the application is therefore wrongly formulated. That is why, I believe, I have the greatest interest in the fact that this case is being clarified. I know how long the Freunderlpartie has met in Droß in the forest district in the hunting house of Mr Plech. It's been a long time. It's going back a lot. I would therefore be very interested in the fact that justice is taking care of this friendly economy. - But that's the duty of justice. And it's our job to make sure that justice does what it has to do. Therefore, I invite the Greens to make a corresponding request on this subject for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, with the aim of controlling justice and going to the question of why the biggest problems arise again – that a no longer competent public prosecutor should deal with a case for which there would be a public prosecutor's own office, under the direction of the former Green Member Mag. Geyer – and why the most prominent suspect does not yet have a search of the house, no opening of an account, but this suspect is constantly making statements to the public! Grasser is already in the public as if he was under charge, and the prosecutor says that she doesn't really want him to know anything about him, from the fine Lord. But he is already publicly commenting on the whole process and holding press conferences. That is to say, it is already with the judiciary again and it is once again a politically implied judicial matter to be examined here. I do not want the investigative committee to replace the activities of the judicial system, but I would like the investigating committee to monitor why the judicial system is already acting politically. That is my concern, and I invite you to install an investigation committee with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9436	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Moser's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. If you give your consent, I ask you to show this by a sign. – The request is rejected. [[17:09:23]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-05-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9476	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 1109/A(E) to 1116/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 5217/J to 5267/J were also raised. Finally, Questions 40/JPR and 41/JPR by Mr Carmen Gartelgruber, colleagues and by Dr. Johannes Hübner, colleagues, have been brought to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 5:10 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
