ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3515	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The Official Protocols of 86 and 87. Meeting of 30 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 1. In December 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Katzian, Ing. Hofer and Ursula Haubner. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3549	I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Fekter. [[10:01:17]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3582	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3769	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3796	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. For the duration of the television transmission by the ORF until 1 p.m., the following time agreement was concluded in accordance with § 57 para. 3nd paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure. This is: a speaker per group with 11 minutes, a member of the SPÖ government with 10 minutes, another speaker with 6 minutes, a member of the government of the ÖVP with 10 minutes, a speaker of the SPÖ with 4 minutes, a speaker of the ÖVP with 4 minutes, a speaker of the FPÖ with 4 minutes, a speaker of the Greens with 6 minutes, a speaker of the BZÖ with 6 minutes, a speaker of the SPÖ with 4 minutes, a speaker of the ÖVP with 4 minutes and a speaker of the FPÖ with 4 minutes. At this point, if necessary, a uniform reduction in television speaking times for all political groups is taking place, so that one more round of speakers can be agreed with the following speaking times: SPÖ 4 minutes, ÖVP 4 minutes, FPÖ 4 minutes, green 6 minutes and BZÖ 6 minutes. A speaking time corresponding to 2 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed for the further debate, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 29 minutes, FPÖ 25 minutes, Green 21 minutes and BZÖ 20 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the honourable Member's speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. Actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:03:50]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (981 e.g._Other Organiser German law, law of the Constitutional Court of Justice 1953, the Administrative Court Law 1985, the Court of Auditors Law 1948, the Participant Law, the Law on Official Journal of the European Communities 1984, the Komustria Law, the General Administrative Procedure Law 1991, the Administrative Criminal Law 1991, the Constitutional Criminal Law, the E-Government Law, the Federal Statistiksgesetz 2000, the Consular Fees Act 1992, the Licensing Act, the Law on Labour and Social Courts, the Outlaw of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on Criminal of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Mensserviceportalgesetz, Finanzprocuraturgesetz, the Oil Supply Promotion Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the EU Source Tax Act, the Company Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the Revenue Tax Act 1994, the Assessment Act 1955, the Fees Act 1957, the Income Tax Act 1987, the Capital Tax Act, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Fire tax Act 1952, the Motor Vehicle Tax Act 1992, the Housing Law, the Federal Law of 16th December 1971. Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the a federal law introducing a stability levy on credit institutions (Stability Charge Act – StabAbgG), a Federal Act introducing a flight tax (Flying Tax Act – FlugAbgG), an Aviation Safety Act 2011, a federal law that will leave the personnel of the Heeresforestverwaltung to another legal entity, a labour and health law, an agricultural control law and a federal law that approves the justification of further charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, and repeals the stamp mark law (Budgetbehördgesgesetz 2011) (1026 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on Employment of Parliamentary Employees (Parliament Staff Act) and the Federal Law on the Remuneration of the Supreme Institutions of the Federal Republic of Germany, the members of the National Council and the Federal Council and the members of the European Parliament (Bundesreitungsgesetz – BBezG) sent by Austria (1027 b.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3877	We shall therefore proceed to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. As agreed I set the clock at 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e3907	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! If we are discussing and talking about the budget today, we are in fact talking about a budget which, if you want to put it very, very pointedly on the point, is a plundering budget, which is very likely to plunder the Austrian population and face a plundering budget. [[Abg. Großruck:... point to the point!]] This budget is de facto a disaster for the Austrian middle class, it is a disaster for the Austrian families, for universities as well as for drivers who are faced with dramatic increases, but also for workers and employers in the country, instead of finally embarking on a reasonable structural and administrative reform. Mr. Cap nodds. He always nods when you address this point – and that has been for years, but specifics, unfortunately, do not come from God. [[Abg. Bucher: For decades!]] And that, where the Court of Auditors has made quite a concrete presentation of more than 300 points – but these points are still being negatively ignored by this Federal Government and no steps are taken on their part. It would be necessary to finally implement the Court of Auditors' proposals in this field so that we do not have a hole-to-hole policy, Mr Klubobmann Cap! This is exactly the problem we have today: We are experiencing a development on the part of this red and black federal government, in which the misery is managed, in which one is not willing to finally really take the heart of the problems, but simply stop the holes with new tax increases and in reality ensure no sustainable, optimal development for our country. This is just an administration of misery by burdening the Austrian population with new taxes and tax increases. You can almost get the impression, you take the Austrian not only the winter coat before Christmas, but even the last shirt away – this is a bit of the impression that arises. And you'd most likely prefer Christmas, on the 24th. December, enter the Austrians' living room and register the Christmas packs there to stop your budget holes that you have created and that you have to answer for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Finanzminister! You, your parties, have to answer these budget holes yourself. You are basically like two “negative Christian children” before Christmas: Instead of putting gifts under the Christmas tree for the Austrians, take away something. But on the other hand, you are generous, namely when it comes to dealing generously with Austrian taxpayers. Here you are like a Christkindl – but not to your own people, not to the Austrians, but to the Austrians, when it comes to transferring Austria's contributions to the European Union to Brussels: Well, there you are generous! There are €2.3 billion paid to Brussels per year! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are no limits to your generosity when €2.3 billion is transferred annually to the European Union. There are the packs you can make, then quite, very large. With these €2.3 billion we pay annually to the European Union, negative steps are also supported, such as the opening of the Eastern European labour market by 1. May 2011, which is planned and supported by your side – and of course will bring even greater strains on our labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] They are generous when it comes to making a non-European country like Turkey Europe fit with our Austrian tax billions. €2.3 billion, which have also been made very generous for Greece by the SPÖ and the ÖVP. 2.3 billion of Austrian taxpayers from our budget were pumped into Greece – of course in banks, because the population there does not receive a cent. In addition, the National Bank has made €4 billion possible, and in addition, liabilities of a total of €15 billion have also been decided on for the Austrian side of the euro rescue shield. This euro rescue screen is also to be extended ad infinitum with red and black consent. I would like to ask you: When, if not now, is the German Chancellor's promise to vote in favour of this? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, this is not a question of any change in the way one puts an emphasis on this Treaty. No, it's about a lot, much more! This is not about a footnote, but about the institutionalisation of the euro rescue shield beyond 2013. This is a major change in the Treaty. That's what I'm really asking myself: What, then, is worth the word of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany if he is not at last concerned with the implementation of his promised referendum? [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: nothing!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The permanent use of € 750 billion – € 750 billion! – a rescue shield ultimately leads to the transfer and redistribution union at the expense of the net payers within the European Union, at the expense of the strong economies, which ultimately transforms the EU in a serious way. And we have always, from the beginning, warned! I remember the liberal criticism when we warned and said: Please do not put into practice such a single currency experiment as the Euro experiment, where you force so different economies into a currency zone, where in the end problems will arise! And now we have these problems. For 20 years the economies within the European Union have not changed, and today we are facing the very situation that the strong economies, as net payers, are constantly being asked for a hand-cushion, of course also have a permanent impact on payments and, of course, our own people in prices and in costs here in the country, have to experience which price increases have taken place since the introduction of the euro. If this is not a case for the former German chancellor Faymann, so full in a letter to the largest Austrian daily newspaper, then what, please? Then what? Today, Mr Bundeskanzler, you do not want to know any more about this. But, please, we have your letter, and in this letter it is black and white inside that you have promised that any further change in the treaty will be subject to a binding, direct democratic referendum. And now, at once, you don't want to know anything about it? – Then your word is really nothing more worth it, and every Austrian can take a picture of what he has to say about your words and statements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Federal Chancellor, are no longer credible, and this continues on all lines. In the meantime you have achieved an absolute disbelief. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Finanzminister, this budget is a document of failure. We are dealing with many, many problems in our home country, in our country Austria: We have an ageing population, we have declining birth rates, we have dramatic demographic developments in which we have had to counter for four decades, we have a situation in which, fortunately, we have a higher life expectancy due to good social policy development, due to good nutrition, because of the health situation also in our country, but, of course, the pension issue presents us with great problems, and we also, when it comes to the undifferentiated immigration policy, have very, very many problems that are present today in the area of non-existent integration – which has not been taking place for decades. These are problems that have existed in our country for decades, partly also home-made by governments. But what are you doing in these questions? - Nothing! You're not doing anything! We should have taken advantage of the economic crisis as an opportunity for the state, structural and administrative reform in question, but instead of dealing with these sustainable problems, simply come here and meet family cuts and impose new tax burdens. In total, the Austrians will have to tax more than €7 billion over the next four years. The families alone lose almost €1.3 billion over the next four years, and the CO2 surcharge for mineral oil tax is almost €2 billion over this period. – That’s how it looks, your wonderful budget, for the You even broke the Constitution, and in a very, very loose and laisser-fair way, we were dealing with the Austrian Constitution, and we finally had to experience that you were out of the “constitutional” here. But this is financial policy brand ÖVP, brand Austrian People's Party. – Since 1987, the ÖVP has been continuously responsible for government, and at this time – the Minister of Finance and Vice-Presidents says: That's it! – you have to account for additional debt of € 134.4 billion. Under your, under ÖVP government responsibility, additional debt of € 134.4 billion! Where has the economy of the ÖVP been? Where has your responsibility been or been lived for future generations? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – You’re always talking about it, but you’ve actually lived the exact opposite of it. In addition, financial liabilities of the Federal Government's distributed companies – i.e. railway, road, real estate management – of a further €30 billion, i.e. an Austrian government debt of € 230 billion, for which the Austrian population has to pay €8 billion annually and for which interest will increase to €10 billion. This budget, which you present here, does not solve any problems, but creates problems. The next tax increases are already pre-programmed, if you are not at last willing to save on expenditure in this country, in the same way, to reforest the structural and administrative sectors and finally eliminate your red and black proportions. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Finally, you can say: This is not a red and white-red budget, but you sail under a red and black pirate flag, under which you ultimately plunder the Austrian population. I say quite frankly to you: The Austrian population is tired of having to endure, suffer and experience such a policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4021	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4042	Madam President. High house! This was a rarely unencompassed speech by Klubobmann Strache today. It seems that the issue is not such a special concern to him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In particular, what he has neglected was the report by Dr. Felder, the President of the Committee of State Debts, who has actually confirmed that the policies we, the government, have pursued in recent years, in particular the management of the effects of the financial and economic crisis, are, among other things, reflected in the rise in the revenue of the Minister of Finance, and this process will continue next year. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That is why I say immediately in my speech: Yeah, every cut hurts. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, wait a minute!]] And we have really discussed this very, very intensively, but next year there will have to be a correction, especially in the areas that have now been so criticized as to whether these are the families, the students, the pensioners or the development aid cooperation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] There's got to be a correction next year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Why don't you do this this day?]] The path of justice must be continued, the path of social justice must be continued. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a threat!]] I am not just saying this in the direction of the three opposition parties, I am also saying this in the direction of coalition partners. What we have now implemented, in these months, is that on the revenue side, the corporations have to contribute €200 million, the foundations have something to contribute to, that there is a capital increase tax, that we have a bank tax – and that is right and good, because we have assumed liability for the banks; they are an important element in the stabilisation and further development of an economy, since it is only good and right if there is this tax, that will also be €500 million – is correct and important. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Who pays the bank levy? The customer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] This path must continue, and the goal remains a asset tax of €1 million, then we will no longer have to make many of the cuts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you know, it's all going to be overlooked as if it didn't exist: Business packages, infrastructure packages. Everything was really done and not only money was taken in order to secure employment, no, but it also had to have a sense, it also had to have a future perspective. - That's exactly what happened. Let's take the international comparison – and I know many say I'm interested in Austria and nothing else; You're such a group that says that. I tell you, I am also interested in Austria primarily, but the comparison is nevertheless correct and good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan]] If pension systems are at risk in other countries if there are minus or zero-pension rounds in other countries, if there are wage negotiations in zero in other countries and if we have regular pay statements here in Austria, pension increases in the ASVG and in the public service, then this is a difference – and this difference, I think, can be removed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer]] [[Abg. Kickl: Colleague,... Offer from abroad?]] But, I'm telling you, we're always dissatisfied, we want more and more and we're always trying to make it better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This is a drive from which we do not abandon, and I therefore tell you that the 1.2 percent for the 91 percent of the ASVG-pensionists are positive, just as the wages accounts as I showed them earlier. We now had a discussion in public, and I refuse that there is a play between young and old. There must always be a functioning social contract! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The older fellow citizens, who have contributed and really done a lot to the construction of this Republic, deserve our respect and respect. That is why it is only right if, under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Faymann, the government repeatedly takes steps to meet exactly this population group. But at the same time – I say – it's about the future and about the boys. I think it is good that there should be an educational people's desire, which is also trying to raise a public awareness of reform. There are already €80 million for the schools, for the universities, and this way must be – I know that education is bothering you, Mr. Kickl, you are living from non-education. [[Abg. Kickl: They don't know, the schools, where with the money, with the 80 million!]] But I believe it is important that we continue to set up these initiatives in the field of education and that there are these reforms in this area. I have to say again: The future reform of education structures should be assessed only on one aspect: What use does she have for the students?, and after nothing else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sights of national leaders are not at the heart of the reflections, the students are at the centre. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] We need the teachers as an alliance partner. [[The speaker strips the microphone with his hand.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The more you're troubled, the more you're flying around!]] We need teachers as partners of alliances, and therefore it is not only about teaching methods, teaching content, administration, but also about training, the quality of teachers. I would also like to say honestly: The whole world already has the common school, so that gifts, talents, commitment as far as possible can develop together over a longer period of time, only Austria is missing. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Just like in Mexico and Brazil!]] The New Secondary School is a first step in the right direction. There's a run to the New Schools. Smaller classes, a lot has really happened in German education, but that is still not enough. We will have to do more, this will be a priority in the future. I wonder, If we are already surrounded by these new forms of school – why not in Austria, Mr. Neugebauer? [[Abg. Kickl: Your children went to a private school! It is! Private kindergarten, private school!]] Why not in Austria? Why don't we give the students with this new school, with the common school, a future perspective to better cut off the PISA tests in the future? However, I have to say that in other countries you are preparing for the PISA tests – with us the boy ÖVP has called out a boycott! I do not understand this until today, instead of taking up the competition and trying to achieve the best possible PISA results, because this is also advertising for our workers and for our country. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's not the only thing, Mr. Cap, you don't understand!]] That means there must be reforms. We will exert pressure to get the structures moving. The Social Democrats are certainly not going to let go of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Some of them develop sooner, some later and some not at all, I tell the callers so that they know which group they have best joined. In any case, this is something that is of utmost importance to us. [[Abg. New builder: Some have stopped!]] Klubobmann Strache said earlier that workers from Eastern Europe would flood us, and who knows what else. – The seven-year transitional period has been agreed by the Freedom Party in 2003 as the then government party. We don't want to forget that! When the Freedom Party was in the government, there were the highest immigration rates. [[Abg. New builder: But you have to say why!]] When the Freedom Party was in the government, there was exactly all that the Freedom Party criticizes today. In the future, I will always include a part of my speeches so that certain things will not be forgotten. – The guilty silence proves that you now know what's going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Please also say why!]] They want to go back to the government so that there is more immigration again, less German education, so that teachers can be saved and there are open labour markets for foreign workers. That's why you want to go back to the government. Please, paste that! Placing this with a picture of my colleague Kickl, so you know who made the text! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] At least that, I think, would be a very crucial point. I talked about justice earlier. I believe it is right that we should now also seek a socially just tax reform. There is still a lot to be done in this regard. We know about the social report and the distribution of assets, real estate, the fund funds, how the distribution is in Austria. She's still not fair. We therefore want to make further corrections so that it becomes fairer. We want this money to be used so that Austria's economy becomes more competitive so that education can be better developed so that the social security system and the health system can be safeguarded. I don't wish anyone, but I'll tell you the following: Get sick once in Italy or in other European countries, and go to a hospital there! You'll be surprised. You will come back and say immediately: I am never again an opposition voice on health issues. Federal Minister Stöger, for example, is currently fighting for a truly smart proposal. He wants to cross barriers and country borders to release funds and to use them more qualitatively, whether for care or for other areas. All these are steps that can support an opposition. We have so many proposals in the field of education and health. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you don't do anything!]] What's bubbling? You're in front of yourself? Please join us in the proposals we have. That's really useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What are you doing about the proposals?]] I would like to say something to you – there is a lot more to be said, but I would like to address this one point – because you want to make 20 requests from the Greens, because you think that this will take a very long time, and so on and so on: The Rules of Procedure give you all these possibilities, you use them. - No problem. But it would have been desirable if Mr Kogler had put an alternative budget on the table in his twelve-hour speech in the Committee. You can do that in twelve hours. One hour may be too little, two too, but in twelve hours it must be possible. While setting up a record quantitatively only, it is okay, but qualitatively really putting a challenge on the table, that has not succeeded to this day. I'll tell you: In part, your forms of actionism are those that you used to know only from the very left and the right at the beginning. I think this is disproportionate because you are always acting as if Parliament were threatened with democracy, that the social state is at the end, that the health system is no longer functioning. - Where do you live? Which green biotope are you at home in? [[Abg. Kickl: Cap has already forgotten that he was an actionist himself!]] I had such great hope. I thought that if you come to the state government in Vienna now, then you are simply “State Green”. Now you will be again “Rabiat Green”. I can't do that. You've got to get grounded. Just try to impress content rather than actionism! You do what you want, the Rules of Procedure give you the opportunity to do so. The Austrians will have to judge this themselves. But that you want to draw the picture that we're just before a collapse in a banana republic or anything else, that's unfair. It's unfair, it's wrong, and it's also a bad thing for the Austrians and our country, and we don't want to let that happen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4404	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4425	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, “Rabiat green”? – I was really tempted to laugh. [[Oh-Rufe at SPÖ and ÖVP]] What the Greens have done in the context of the budgetary negotiations is nothing but to be parliamentarians, real parliamentarians – and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would be better for you, instead of giving good tips from the speaker's desk here, to think back to the fact that You parliamentarians are that you decide the budget today, not the government, and that you still have the opportunity to change things today and here – today and here and not just next year. To shed these crocodile tears here, all this still has to come, all this has to happen, but everything has to happen next year, you can now push it aside. Today, you have the concrete opportunity to vote on 21 amendments, very concrete amendments to the content, all of which are well-founded, and all things that are very, very important to people, simply stand up and say yes – today, here and now, and not just next year. Save us your tips on how we should behave in parliamentary terms! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The criticism of the budget, I believe, has been made very clear and clear in recent weeks by all parts of civil society, by many experts, by economic researchers, and this is basically summarised: This budget does not set priorities. A lawn mower method is used above all over those areas which are very relevant for the future, particularly in the field of education, science and the environment. The challenges that demographically come to us, especially in the field of care, are not taken into account. After a very long wait - because one has shivered on country elections - one has agreed on a very short-term action in a very short-term action on many errors that should not now be corrected. Today, with our 21 amendments, we are making another concrete attempt to correct these mistakes. I'm appealing to As Members of the House, as ÖVP and SPÖ Members, you are now acting as parliamentarians and not simply swing through everything that the government sends to the house, but really think about what you are for or what you are against. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 21 Amendments – 20 of them concern deletions of things that are not meaningful from our point of view and which mean too hard cutting in certain areas. These are essentially the savings in family aid, the reduction from 26 to 24 years – that is, by the way, too unlikely to be constitutional; we will fight it – to reduce the cost of multiple children. Now I look in the direction ÖVP family spokesperson: You do not like this, you have the opportunity today to personally vote against it. [[Call the ÖVP:Thank you for giving us the chance!]] Yes, you could do that yourself, you could even make applications yourself and not just serve the government as an extended workbench! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can take back the deterioration in the care allowance today, and also the reduction in press promotion – a particularly perfect point, and I would like to make one more comment on what this actually means. In other words, the structured press promotion is shortened according to criteria, instead advertising expenditure in the Federal Chancellery will be increased. This means that media must be taken even more closely to the political link. The possibilities that the Federal Chancellor thus opens up bring him 1 million more for advertisements for those media that he enjoys, so he can continue to buy political reporting. [[Abg. New builder: He will need it, Mr. Faymann!]] That's not fair. 1 million €! - Get out of here! You have a chance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The deterioration in the disability area, I think, can't please anyone here in the house. You yourself have followed the actions that many organizations have launched in front of this House over all the weeks of the budget discussions. One point, the most embarrassing at all, is the reduction in development cooperation – a completely overwhelming, unjust reduction, which completely destroys our international commitment to solidarity with other countries. – You can take that back today. Mr Cap wants to do this only next year. You are cordially invited to do this today! An application – which, however, is also positive – concerns the ticket charge. That is quite all right, that can be reversed towards EZA and environmental measures. Here too, we need a lot more new resources and much more additional resources. What Austria has done in the field of climate protection in recent years is really no longer possible. This means that this will be the “future budget holes. ” Austria will have to purchase pollution certificates due to the failure of EIA policy in the field of climate protection. – By the way, you can change that too today. This budget is not alternatives. You've always tried to tell us that, you've tried to talk to the people. Clearly, consolidation is necessary, yes. It would only have been useful to have a serious discussion on which areas, despite a consolidation budget, are excluded, which will receive additional investment. There we have to do with very large packs of dizziness – I say this in this clarity – in the whole area of universities and schools. There's no single cent of extra money. There is no single cent of additional money for the most important area for our young generation and for youth. Although PISA in Austria has once again bitten us through – everyone was startled and shocked – there is no single consequence of these investigations in the budget, and there must not be! You have a responsibility here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Social justice, the SPÖ’s favorite word – and then always come those things that she has not implemented that were unable to negotiate with the coalition partner. I consent, I confess, and this is also a praise to understand that certain screws have been put. It is good that the foundation tax was started, but what was started here is no more than a tickle. This is like when the rich are a bit tickled with a feather, but that is far from socially just taxation. When we consider that €60 to 80 billion are parked in foundations in Austria, the proceeds of at least €3 billion per year. And the share for the recovery of the budget, for consolidation, is saying and writing 80 million €. – Is that fair? The people in need of care are cut short. The great challenges facing those who have families, who have children in education or perhaps parents for care, or perhaps both at the same time, are brutally cut in. That's why I'm saying: Indeed, social justice cannot be found in this budget! We demand a genuine social fair taxation. At least 50 percent of these tax privileges can be achieved. This would still not dispel capital from Austria. Another point: ecologisation. This was the favorite word of the former Minister for the Environment and the current Minister of Finance, who simply intervened in the field of so-called eco-taxes and is now trying to sell it as an eco-logist of the tax system. We continue to call for an environmental tax reform, which is socially fair, which is non-profit-making and which, on the other hand, also reduces taxes, but which actually achieves a steering effect that actually allows CO2 reduction, not a tax reform that fills the budget de facto with a scrapping action and at the same time affords the great opportunity to reverse it. That is essential. We are now the only country in the European Union that does not achieve its climate change objectives, and that is a shame to you as Minister of Finance and former Minister of the Environment! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On a few major issues, you have not made any progress – that is unfortunate – in the negotiations with the countries. It is famous that schooling is extended all day long. – The truth is that countries receive much more additional tax revenue, federal income, which would not have been necessary. One could have done this, but only in connection with real reforms. They haven't been on the table yet. Whether the money that the countries will receive in particular for the whole day's schooling actually flows in there, no one knows. Just as little is known about how the care standards will be. You just passed on the problem, and you just passed the money on. You have to be accused of being a coalition of courage, because you have not addressed this very important problem of finally negotiating structural reforms with the countries within the framework of this package. This is probably the biggest failure in the context of these very short budgetary negotiations. The budget is anti-education, it burdens families, we have to do with eco-deviation, it is a budget that cuts socially completely in, and we still want to change it. We really want to change the content. We call on you once again to be a parliamentarian in order to be able to look in the mirror the day after the vote, and to reject things that you yourself do not think good from the heart and to support some of our amendments. It cannot be said that only representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP are sitting here who have resigned their political conscience, their political will, their political decision to the government bank. We don't want to believe that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If that is the case, we will inform the people of each one of you, which is why there is also a name-named vote. A brief comment on the FPÖ. I welcome the APA and the speeches here again and again that the FPÖ is extremely dissatisfied, and I would like to see a signing refusal by President Heinz Fischer on the budget, but are there any protest measures, special actions or perhaps applications? – I didn’t see a constitutional complaint. [[Abg. Strache: Constitutional action!]] [[Abg. Strache: We will ensure a constitutional action!]] The country of Carinthia wants to complain that it has less budget. We want to support the families and not the Kärntner Landesbudget, which is an essential difference. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are behind the people concerned and not behind any strange announcements made by Mr Uwe Scheuch, who, I believe, is certainly not a constitutional judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4579	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4601	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think we agree on this: Debts are spent future, especially spent future of our children and grandchildren. And if, over the last 30 years, there has been a federal government that has reduced debt – in relation to GDP – then, Mr Strache, this was first the ÖVP/FPÖ government, which you have then split into the air, and subsequently, the ÖVP/BZÖ government that has further driven this debt reduction, exactly in these years! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So if you raise allegations, you should also stick to the right address. Ladies and gentlemen, as in the private sector, it is also necessary to make some debts in the federal budget. One can make debt for investments that will still benefit the next generations, no question at all. One can or must also make debts in a situation like we had in recent years. Even in a financial crisis, as it has not been there since the 1930s, it is legitimate to make debts. [[Abg. Street: Since 1987 continuous!]] But we must not make debts for the consumption of today's generation, not even for the consumption of the poorest, because if we do, then this money is missing to support the poorest in the next generations, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But you owe!]] That is, there is no other alternative to a rapid return to healthy state finances – and SPÖ and ÖVP together succeed in this budget. Mrs Glavischnig, if you here conjure up parliamentarianism and conjure up the representatives of the government parties, one thing you should admit to us: We are not less human, and we are concerned to take nothing less of the one or other measure that we are forced to take. But there's a big difference: You operate opposition work for the sake of opposition, we are in charge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Yes, this budget and some of the measures that are necessary are painful. They're being violently discussed. But quite frankly, for some protest action I simply and simply lack the understanding: I do not understand that 3,000 crosses in front of Parliament against a reduction in development cooperation, which must be said, the Federal Minister for External Affairs, Michael Spindelegger, has clearly instructed the competent organization to save in the structure, and not to help those who need this, for this supranational action here in front of the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, these steps that we have to take here are alternatively non-existent. Despite these painful measures, it is only in 2013 or 2014 that we manage to start the reduction of debt – unfortunately, the debt continues to rise at first. If we look at these measures, it is legitimate to ask the question of justice. But we have family benefits of € 8.5 billion, which is one and a half times family benefits, as they have the other OECD countries on average. And the share of children at risk of poverty is half as high as in OECD countries, in other rich countries. That is, ladies and gentlemen, no country is doing more for families than Austria, and there it is painful, but legitimate to make a small reduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Group and Foundations, ladies and gentlemen: Austria can very well claim itself in the competition of corporate headquarters, and this benefits people in this country, with jobs, with safe income. It was also right to give companies the opportunity to offset losses they make in other countries. An attractive foundation law has brought a lot of capital to Austria, for the benefit of the people here. But I am also saying that it is, of course, fair in a difficult budgetary situation and right, to demand from these groups a proper contribution from these foundations to budget recovery, and that is what we are doing with this budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the banks. They are a lifeline for our economies, they are the basis for prosperity, they are not the causes of the financial crisis, at least not the Austrian banks. However, it is an act of justice to demand a proper contribution from these banks in this difficult budgetary situation. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to the speculators. Many have earned a fortune with speculation. Unfortunately, many have lost a lot of money. The behaviour of the speculators, unlike the domestic banks, has contributed a great deal to the fact that we have come to this financial crisis. It is therefore necessary, of course, and right, in the sense of justice, especially those who generate income through speculations, increase their assets, demand a proper and also a great contribution to the restoration of our State budget. And that is what we are doing with this budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Or, ladies and gentlemen: Smoking is unhealthy, not only for those who smoke, but also for many who have to smoke. It causes high “repair costs” in health care. It is therefore legitimate and fair to demand a contribution from this group of people to the reorganisation of the budget. The driving, the travels are no longer out of our civilisation, but it is environmentally harmful, and therefore it is legitimate and right to demand from this group also a contribution to the reorganisation of the budget, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: A very low one! Too low!]] The taxpayers: Austria is a high tax country. All experts confirmed: 44 percent tax and tax ratios are anti-performance, are a threat to our prosperity. But it can't be those who pay the taxes very well, the fools in this country. That is why the anti-fraud approach in this package is also needed. We must make the fair contribution from those who are currently trying not to make their contribution to the tax system with all possible tricks. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But that's exactly how it is with the euro rescue screen! What do you have to say? That's exactly the same pattern!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this budget and this budget reorganisation are alternatively non-existent, they are necessary in the sense of our next generations. We must not put this back in debt and leave it behind, for things that we have done today. But there is also a time after budget recovery. The next few years will have to be marked by the fact that we are doing everything we can to further improve the economic environment in this country, because if the economy has appropriate opportunities in that country, then appropriate tax revenue will also flow and then we will be able to again, because or where it is necessary to set accents. And where is it necessary? Education – debated again and again. We spend the most money in this country per student from all comparable countries, but the result is unfortunately below average. And, Mr Cap, the solution or the “total school” approach is a little too simple for me. Where did we see the problems in the PISA study? – In part, our young people do not do well with the language. They have problems with their reading skills. But you learn all of this before you get ten years old. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Ten years of ÖVP Education Minister!]] It is therefore absolutely missing to put the focus of the educational debate on this point instead of pointing to where the real problem lies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is one of the countries that spend most per university graduate, but we have too few graduates. Many start studying, too few finish. This is not a question of more money, on the contrary, it would be a question of access schemes and a question of tuition fees to keep those who actually want to finish it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last thing we have to do safely in the next few years: We are currently forced to ask people to bear taxes at a level that is difficult for a country that can only survive as an economic location if it is able to keep corporate headquarters here, keep jobs here, and thus depends on people's willingness to do so. We must therefore be able again in the next few years to reduce this tax and tax rate in the sense of performance justice, in the sense of people's willingness to perform, and we will have to pay attention to all these issues – education, universities, research, universities, health, but also to the reduction of the tax and tax rate – in the next few years in our political work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4780	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4804	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You just heard the colleague head with the old debt lie of the ÖVP. – Mr Kopf, stop keeping us here in the house and also the people outside to fool us! The ÖVP has been continuously in government responsibility for 24 years! They have co-decisiond all the budgets of the last 24 years and are therefore in charge of this debt mountain that you have accumulated and which the next generations will have to cut down. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the economy cannot grow as quickly as you make debt. That's reality. The workers and employers in our country, who are not at all able to pay as much and pay taxes as you owe the country and the next generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you are pledged to our country! They pledge our country to the next generations. This is the reality before which we today are almost despairing in the face of the budget proposal and the budget accompanying law which you are presenting to us here. Mr Cap, you're always talking about justice. When I read the media of the last days: The only justice I perceive is that you are currently terraced into the ground and ground in the polls. This is the only justice because people have enough to hold back your lies that scatter you day after day. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When you talk about future prospects, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: The only hopeful future perspective is that from the next election there will be no major coalition with red and black. This would be good for Austria and should be further driven forward. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] People have a right to the truth, and you lie to people wherever you can. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I only recall Mr Pröll's statements. Mr Pröll, you have told people in our country for weeks and months, there are neither new taxes nor tax increases. You've spread this over the media for months. Today you decide on the presentation of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, a tax and tax package in the order of €3 billion. That is what people are satisfied with: constantly talking about something else and going out than you then implement and decide here in the House. There is no wonder that people turn away from the politicians in our country and that politics manages the country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this budget and, above all, these budget accompanying laws, which we are now discussing in the morning, are a purely monetary institu­tion action, a purely monetary institu­tion action on the back of the socially weak, the families and the needy. That's why you don't come around, and you won't get out of this accusation, Mr. Banker Pröll! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Banking Minister Pröll stands for banks, for marode banks and for corporations. That's your policy, you're making politics in our country! [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Hypo Alpe-Adria! Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] Mr Pröll, you are constantly travelling to Brussels and depositing billions of Austrian taxpayers. I am not an anti-European, Mr Pröll, but someone who takes care of the taxpayers in Austria and, above all, looks at the fact that we are not making absolutely billions of promises that we cannot then keep. This sintering cut-off in Brussels costs taxpayers 17 billion €. And this is a cow trade, which is being operated here, because for the fact that Mr. Bankenminister deposits € 17 billion of taxpayers in Brussels, he receives praise for the economic development in our country. This is the deal, ladies and gentlemen, a sinister deal that causes us lasting damage, because all of this has to be done by the families, it has to be for those in need of care, and it has to do with the socially weaker and the economy in our country. And that's the real summit of falsehood. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Why don't you tell us the truth from the beginning, Mr. Pröll, from the beginning? You have transferred € 17 billion to Brussels – tell them that no cent is coming back! Tell us that you will form a Euro Fund to be used to save the euro! That's where the taxpayers see, there's not a single cent in the budget in the future! That's lost money! This is money that needs to be generated first, ladies and gentlemen, because in the meantime, debt and interest rates continue to rise. And it must not be forgotten that 80 percent of the €10 billion we pay each year on interest flows abroad because they are foreign debt. That's what I'm really asking myself: Where have you learned economics, Mr. Finanzminister, Mr. Pröll? – Not in Austria, that is certain, not in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: With his uncle!]] If you're just going around with the billions in Brussels, Mr. Federal Chancellor, if you make such a great promise, we're already reminding you that in a letter on the “Kronen Zeitung” you have addressed the taxpayer and promised that you want to make a referendum in the future in the event of changes to the treaty. In the case of such small bagatella questions, you are councillor, but when it comes to huge amounts and billions of money, you don't want to know anything about a referendum. Stand up to your word, and stop with this constant lie propaganda, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They wanted to punish the banks because you meant the banks were guilty of all this evil. A bank tax has come out – in fact, it is a bank customer tax. You will not seriously believe, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, that even one bank pays what you demand from the banks here, these €500 million. This will, of course, be passed on to bank customers in the form of handling fees, credit fees and risk supplements, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You should finally understand that. I do not expect it from you anyway, but at least from the ÖVP, because there are a few there who represent the bank representatives and precisely know that, of course, all fixed costs are included in the calculation and at the end of the customer has all that to pay, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[towards SPÖ]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same thing: They wanted an eco-tax system, Mr Pröll, the banking minister, has come out of an increase in mineral oil tax. This is your eco tax that you've started. 530 million € will be paid by the commuters in the future and will receive 30 million in return in the form of alms. 530 million € pay them – 30 million € get them back, so to speak, in the form of alms. That's your equation, that's your final account, Minister of Finance Pröll. At the same time, drive up the spray price. They drive inflation up with these fiscal measures. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, when will you wake up once, when will you understand once that inflation is a tax on the poor, a tax on those who have little income that have little money?- Oh, my God! This should sometime also be understood by your experts in the Chamber of Labour, who should already collect a lot of money in the form of compulsory membership contributions and who should at last speak a clear word here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Economic policy, Mr Pröll, looks like you're shortening the funding. Economic policy à la Pröll looks so that through AWS there is less resources available for the small and medium-sized economy that a food tax for the small and medium-sized economy is introduced, a new tax, ladies and gentlemen, [[Abg. Move up!]] 40 million € will have to do all those small businesses in the next few years that come in contact with food. Or: They cut the budget for infrastructure projects. Important, large, forward-looking infrastructure projects will be reduced, they will be pushed to the long-term bank. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the EIA's scrapping policy, which affects the families, which are the weaker in social terms and the most important ones in the economy. That's reality. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have long decriminalized themselves from being a family and economic party. At the same time, you're talking about debt reduction and tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, with this package you decide today, the tax and tax rate goes towards 44 percent. This makes us the highest tax country in the European Union. Austria is the “High Tax National Park”, and this is in the face of high debt development and a huge debt mountain, which we will build on to the next generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we say, ladies and gentlemen, Hands away from the wallet of the Austrians! We need a tax reform, we need a discharge. If we pay off tax, we'll get up again with growth and employment and with prosperity in our country. And: At last save on the structures and the administration! That would be the highest time, and that's why you don't come around! [[Abg. Hear: Unheard of, something like that!]] If you look at debt development, you know that the economy in Austria is growing much too slowly. We therefore need a economical and performance-oriented state, which carries out its tasks, not in a bureaucracy and in an administrative system that costs only a lot of money, modernizes and comes into existence. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the BZÖ's success model for the 2011 budget would be to strengthen the families and not to rely on immigration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The second would be to invest in education, because only the budget is meaner than PISA. We also need to invest in research, development and innovation, because if the other countries around Austria are getting cheaper and cheaper, Austria needs to get better. – That would be the right contribution to the prosperity of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e4998	Mr Faymann is now speaking at 10 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5020	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! Honourable Members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For example, if you read the “Financial Times Germany” last week – and that was really not the only economic magazine that wrote it – then... – I haven’t met your reading skills like that. [[Abg. Neubauer: Have you read it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (a copy of the Financial Times Germany) To read!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Tell me what... Financial Times!]] [[towards FPÖ]] I don't know your results in the PISA test – I don't know if they were already there at the time. But I can tell you what's in the article, because you could listen – and then you might be able to reduce something or other, and you might notice that there is a gap in your argumentation. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Why are all economic politicians on the one hand and on the other hand all economic scientists agree that North countries like Germany, Austria – you hear! – and the Netherlands are among those who are so stable in their finances that the plan to introduce a more stringent stability policy and to keep a tighter house is credible? Why are there so many economic operators across Europe who are among the stable countries that have managed the crisis well in terms of growth and framework conditions, have stable finances and whose “Triple A” has not been threatened in the last few months? – They just haven’t listened to the FPÖ, otherwise they might change their mind – or express a clear opinion about the FPÖ; I think they would choose the latter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Joke, come on out, you're surrounded!]] I say this in the sense of the usual division of roles that we as a government refer to the strengths and possibilities of the country that we have also benefited from in the largest economic crisis and which we will also benefit for the future of the country, while the opposition naturally highlights those parts that are worthy of improvement, things that have not even worked or which could be made better. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: The voters see this differently!]] – This division of roles is not uncommon in such discussions. [[In the case of other FPÖ members, members of the FPÖ hold a transparency with the title: “SPÖ-ÖVP budget means MILLIARDEN-BELASTINGS for the Austrians. MILLIARDS FOR GREEN & Iren. Only the FPÖ says: BUDGET-WAHNSINN STOPPEN’ in height.]] [[Abg. New builder: Something to think about!]] But let me – the FPÖ even holds a transparency high – bring another quote that Mr Strache has said several times in recent days...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5136	Mr. Bundeskanzler, please wait a moment. The transparency was shown here. I should like to ask the honourable Members to reintroduce the transparency. [[The representatives of the FPÖ remove the transparent again.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Please, Federal Chancellor, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5173	Mr. Strache has formulated that the Federal Chancellor of the design will is missing, and he sees his task only and alone – and then comes the decisive! – in the administration of misery. Mr. Strache, it's a misery with you, but not with our homeland! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria is a rich country, it is a socially strong country, the citizens are diligent people and do not need to be insulted by you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Everything built on debt!]] Therefore, I believe that in the usual division between what the government represents on a positive side in a budget, and what is justified in criticism, there is a certain limit to the degradation and insult, because it ultimately does not benefit anyone in politics. [[Abg. Neubauer: You are a single disappointment!]] Our country has become strong in post-war times by common accords, and the social partners have achieved much – not in mutual labour struggles, but in concrete joint services for this country – in the economy, for example, through framework conditions that have given workers the opportunity to ensure in our country that everyone has something from the joint profits. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: But not by you!]] [[Abg. Strache: Austria has really earned itself a better Federal Chancellor!]] That is why we continue to fight, and therefore it is also reasonable that the banks pay their contribution, because they have also benefited from our help. Therefore, it is also reasonable that we take care of corporate taxation, that we invest in the fight against fraud, that we have scrutinized the foundations – and that is a change in direction compared to those budgets in which income on the part of wealth taxation has always fallen away. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (remarking the gallery, where some visitors are leaving their places) Even the people on the gallery are running away!]] [[Abg. Kickl: People leave the gallery like quick!]] Over many years and many budgets, wealth taxes have been abolished, benefits introduced, and other things have expired and have not been newly installed. – We have often experienced this in the past. What is happening now is a change of direction that brings a piece of justice. It is a change of direction, which has truly not yet been achieved, namely that in our country labour is taxed off and assets are more used, but it is a budget that can, with good reason, point to this right path. And it would not only be expected that 1.7% reductions in the expenditure framework would be above the average if these revenue-based measures were not part of the decisions of the budget. Otherwise, like other countries, it would have been necessary to make double, triple, up to tenfold reductions. On administrative reform: This issue has rightly re-examined my previous speaker, as I think, but I am convinced that the administrative reform in the consequence of this will lead to a high level of cost increases in health care and that we will ensure greater efficiency through strong reforms in individual areas – from education to health care and care. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where? Where are the reforms?]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] But it would not and will not spare us the best reform – whether at federal level or at the level of the countries – that we also need to put in place measures to maintain the stability of the country that we have to perform in the social field, which is so proud of the high level in the social system, which Austria is so proud of. [[Call to the FPÖ: There are no reforms!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Now I know what it means to save...!]] Therefore, I am convinced that there is not either a budget with fair measures and contributions, such as those of the banks, or a reform in the administration, but we both need it. That this budget does not complete what we still have in the process of reform, but that we still have much ahead of us in the field of economy and efficiency improvement, you know and we know that. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: At the wastes...!]] I would like to see in the usual debate between government and opposition next year a little more constructive commonness exists. [[Abg. May. Brunner: If our suggestions...!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: When will we be presented with the next budget?]] I do not hope that this will happen in the next few hours, but I would ask to conduct this discussion as constructively as possible and together. Let us be clear about the strengths of our country and be proud of it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5388	In the next round, everyone and everyone has a speaking time of 6 minutes. Next, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5416	Madam President. Mrs Glawischnig is, unfortunately, right now. [[Abg. Grosz: You have to prepare yourself for the national votes!]] It has previously meant that we MEPs, especially the government groups, should consider being parliamentarians. Perhaps the other greens can do this: We are parliamentarians – not only from the Social Democrats, but also from the MEPs of the ÖVP – and we take our work seriously here and look at exactly what we are doing. [[Call the Greens: But you have to say that!]] We know exactly what we're doing. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's the sadness: that you know what you're doing! That's the bad thing: you know what you're doing!]] We do not always agree on improving things, but we know exactly what we are doing – in the good as in the bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A group whose Members are often only three, four or five are still present after 8 p.m. will certainly not blame us for doing so, because they do not take their work as seriously as we do in the case of Weitem. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Nor do we have a problem with spending four, five, six or even 24 hours with national votes, but we will take a very close look at whether all 20 Greens who ask us to do so are present at every single vote, or whether they believe they are somehow better Members, but do not take it seriously themselves. If you take seriously the amendments you are making here, I assume that all of you will also be present in these votes. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Then it is, but they are missing afterwards! Mr Krainer, they are going home afterwards! After 8:00 the Greens are all gone!]] But it's up to you. [[The speaker put a table on the speaker’s desk, on which a bar chart with the heading “taxes and charges up to 50 000 euros of income” can be seen.]] Some of you already know this Taferl. It is simply about the question of tax structure and fiscal justice in our country. There are very different ways to earn his money – not only in Austria, but all over the world – and in Austria, these different types of incomes are taxed very differently. For example, if you earn your money today through stock speculation and thus take 50 000 € in the year, then you pay zero Euro taxes. If you earn this about a foundation, then pay a little tax, that is, €6 750. If you earn this over interest or over dividends, you pay 12 500 € taxes. However, if you work on the other hand, like the most important group in this country, this €50,000 will be charged with over €30 000 taxes and taxes. – That is, the higher the performance for income, the higher the taxes, and the lower, the lower the performance, the lower the taxes. What we are doing with this budget is that we are changing a lot of things, namely that taxes and taxes are rising massively, especially for speculation and for foundations. [[The speaker places a film with a further bar chart over the panel on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We already know that!]] Did we arrive at the end of the road? Can we say that justice now exists in the tax structure? – No, that’s what everyone sees at first glance, but it’s an important step towards that, and we’re taking this step together. We are also very grateful that the EIA is taking this step with us – we have been talking about it for many years – and that we are setting such important measures for greater tax justice in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what everyone also needs to be clear: Justice has not yet been created. There are many more steps needed. We must continue to reduce taxes and taxes on work, as we did together a year and a half ago, and we must also take further steps to ensure that those who pay less taxes today than those who work make the same fair contribution. During this legislative period, we have agreed to a tax reform commission, and it is clear what the SPÖ is expecting, namely a further reduction in taxes on work and a more just contribution from those who do not make any or less of a contribution today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just a few examples. An example of asset taxation: It is true that the wealth in Austria is even more unevenly distributed than the income, that a very, very small group has very, very much wealth and the great crowd has little or no wealth. [[Abg. Bucher: SPÖ Finance Minister!]] We have presented a concept that those who own more than € 1 million of assets spend a small part of this assets and thus also contribute to greater tax justice in that country. – This is one of the key points in this tax reform discussion. A second example of group taxation: Today we do the following: If a company buys a competitor and, as a result, there will be less jobs and less competition, then this purchase price of the company will be subsidized by the current tax system by taxpayers. I do not know at the best of my will what would be worthy of tax promotion that there is less competition and fewer jobs. This is part of the group taxation we want to delete. There are a number of other examples, but these two are at the top of the list for us. What frightens me is how little solidarity there is in this package, especially, I say quite openly and honestly, of the banks. Two years ago, there was a unanimous decision here in the House, in which we have all shown our solidarity with the banks and have also clearly said that we do not want any Lehman problem or the like, but we take a lot of money to stabilise the financial system. That those who were the first to have the solidarity of all in Austria, who were massively first against the bank tax and now also lobbyed against the capital increase tax and mood, this fills me with concern, because at least those who have experienced the solidarity of others should also be solidarity with the rest of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5575	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5597	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, together with the budget accompanying legislation, is absolutely necessary. After one of the most serious economic and financial crises, we have to re-establish our budget in the next few years. We have reported over €7 billion in deficit for the coming year, and we still have an interest rate of over €8 billion to bear. [[Abg. May. Widmann: 7.6 billion!]] We must regain the confidence of our youth, and we must not build the future for youth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Anyone who manages a budget knows that no longer can be spent on a permanent basis than is taken in – that is why our group has a clear yes to this budget recovery, yes to savings and additional taxes, which are naturally there and there painful, no question at all, but they are without an alternative! At the end of the day, we owe our children and the succeeding generations to re-establish the budget in the next few years, ladies and gentlemen, and the Austrian People's Party with Finance Minister Sepp Pröll is at the forefront of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: He's not even there!]] I also do not understand the criticism of the opposition. Austria is better out of the crisis than many other European countries. The economic, labour market, banking and tax packages that we have decided here were overall the right measures, and the labour market data, ladies and gentlemen, prove that too. With an unemployment rate of 4.8 percent at the end of November, we have the second lowest unemployment rate in the EU-27 – which is a decrease compared to the previous year of about 13,400 people and 5.2 percent respectively. The most important thing is that people in our country have a job. There are positive developments in this respect, and we should be happy together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, it is completely incomprehensible that FPÖ is now operating and criticizing the bank package. It is written: “With 5.9 billion euros SPÖ and ÖVP have stopped the speculation losses of red and black banks.” Ladies and gentlemen, if you say “stopped”, then you have “stopped”. This decision was unanimous here in the House, and we did not support the banks, but secured savings – and that was in the sense of all Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, BZÖ and FPÖ, do your homework in Carinthia! I told you the last time – and this also applies to today: The country can't do anything for it, that's beautiful, and the people there are just as decent as in all the other federal states, but politics has failed there in recent years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan:... Lower Austria!]] Where are your solutions, ladies and gentlemen? - There's no such thing as that. Therefore, there are no alternatives to this budget. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: and Abg. (Keeping up to the height on which bar graphs can be seen) These are the debts of the Styria! Look, Upper Austria,...!]] To the Greens, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek has informed us that we are waving the budget here. Mr Krainer has already given an opinion on this, and I support this opinion. We don't wink through anything here, but you can't know that, and that's understandable from my point of view, because you've never heard of a government in the Federation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Oja, Upper Austria, Styria...!]] We have achieved improvements, ladies and gentlemen – we as representatives of the two government parties. The multi-child supplement is preserved. We've reached suspensions with students. In the future, family aid will continue to be available to grant beneficiaries. Long study periods in fields such as medicine or technical subjects are taken into account. In the area of families it is also mentioned: We spent €940 million a year in the last two years more than in 2008, and that should not be mentioned. The Austrian People's Party is at the heart of the families, and this will remain the case in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also improved with the commuters. Yes, because the increase in the oil tax is, of course, especially painful for this group. Finally, the penalty will not be increased by €15 million, but by €30 million. In the social field too, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal put forward by Federal Minister Hundstorfer was naturally discussed. And there is the need for changes, especially as a result of demographic development. However, the measures are socially acceptable and acceptable. I just mention two examples: Rehabilitation before retirement is certainly a forward-looking measure. This will put an end to the unworthy spectacle of invalidity pensions. And the long-term insured scheme will remain in a necessary amended form from 2014. The free replacement times will be stretched out, but from 62. You can retire with long insurance and contribution periods. And that's the right way: Performance must pay off, even with pensions! For this we are available from the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the savings and tax measures are naturally there and there painful, but they are fairly divided. All contribute to this budget. [[Call the FPÖ:Only the families!]] That was always our announcement, including from our Minister of Finance, and this is reflected in this budget. In conclusion: In European comparison, we decide on a very moderate budget recovery. We're not cutting any salaries, ladies and gentlemen, we're raising them! The collective treaty negotiations are largely concluded, we increase wages. We do not reduce pensions, ladies and gentlemen, we raise them – although moderate, but we raise them. We do not save on the labour market. That would be a wrong way. We invest in the labour market, and we also invest in education, research and development. Ladies and gentlemen! If we take action in the coming years, then we will continue to relieve the middle class and those who are the beneficiaries in this country. The Austrian People's Party is also in the future for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5756	Mr Vilimsky is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5777	Madam President. It is quite incredible what has been left here by red-black representatives for a Suada in fact distortions from the stack. The fact is: Never before have so many people been poor in Austria, as it is currently under a Social Democratic Chancellor. Never has the number of newly created jobs been as miserable as it is at present. There are low-cost contracts for temporary and temporary work. To hide people in training, this is the Christmas fairy tale that is left by the government today. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] And the incitement of social justice is at all an expression of the highest lubrication comedy, especially of Klubobmann Cap, who uses a little background talk there. [[Abg. Dr. Cap is in the back of the SPÖ sector.]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, come on. Here, I'll make you an offer! They've conjured social justice today. You, Mr Klubobmann Cap, have tried to position yourself here as a social Robin Hood. Look for your social democratic coat from your youth, when you may have believed what you said! - That's it. We are talking about social justice, and there is a group – the ministers and the privileged – that you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, always want to take responsibility. This includes the caste of political privileges in this House, which are still in an old, completely over-privileged system. One must do this to the spectators and Watchers say: There is a new policy-keeping system here, which is all right, where ASVG-pensions will be paid after a corresponding long period of insurance. And there is the old, completely overprivileged system, for example at Mr. Klubobmann Cap, who, wherever he may be now, now, I think, deserves around 17 000 € per month as a clubman... – This is in the ASVG system! [[Call the SPÖ:And straight?]] I make the following offer today: The Freedom Party – by the way, the only party based exclusively on the ASVG system – will make a request by my colleague Themessl to take responsibility for these political privileges – not only to give proper support to those who are now in the old system, but also to those who are already pensioners. And there, people like Klubobmann Cap can show you how socially democratic they really are. But also the other political groups! I am there for Mr Stumvoll to join the ÖVP – or for the green social fighters, Mr Pilz, who is still in this old pension system. Then we'll see who's really on the stock exchange for social justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The SPÖ has every reason to be ashamed. I think I told you last time, I'll tell you today: Your Social Democrat Ruttenstorfer, who has now been displayed for stock insider trading, has been found to be suspected of developing hundreds of thousands of euros by insider knowledge – the speculators are sitting there! Or Mr. Federal Managing Director Herbs, who – now also not visible to me in the hall – a few days ago – at all a special-class pikanery! – called for lobbyists to stop working in politics in the future or to be excluded from the award. Where are the lobbyists sitting here in the High House? – At the SPÖ in the person of Mr Gartlehner, who worked for the high-ranking high-ranking, so highly-focused by you. That's where the lobbyists sit! [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Is this a speech about the budget?]] And I'll tell you one thing, too. You should be ashamed! I know you're not ashamed, but for you, the word of the year counts: “Foreign shame” can only be seen for you as a politician of the other parties, but also as a voters of this republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig, who complains in such a way that she does not make a constitutional complaint with us, I would like to point out the following: That's right, we just don't need you. Do you know why we don't need you? - Because we don't trust you. They showed it in Vienna at the joint pact, where we wanted to bring about a fair electoral right together. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... the government's bedhead!]] You didn't do it. They just fled to the mayor's bed. We are strong enough with our Carinthian friends, we do it alone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the ÖVP. Mr Klubobmann Kopf I would also like to give you one more way, where you call smokers, holidaymakers and drivers a pest of the special class, which you now have to ask for. [[Abg. Head: ‘ pests ’?- Oh, my God!]] – This is in the Minutes, Mr Klubobmann. You know what? If it went after me, you would have to take responsibility for this disaster – you from the ÖVP and you from the SPÖ – by removing your political salaries and making you both a case for minimum security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget has been broken by a constitutional break. It is characterized by social brutality. Today you will have the opportunity to show whether you want to live a little social justice, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, by reducing your political board on your own stock market. How will you vote? - I'm typing on No. We will call for a nameable vote in this respect. This should be done by your members in the Hernals section – or wherever you work – as you know on the one hand. On the other hand, if it is actually about your own stock exchange, we shall conjure up your vote on the social justice side and how you do on the other hand. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a budget which, if we do not immediately slow down the emergency in our role towards the European Union, will become even worse next year under your aegis. The European Union is becoming a non-soil-free vessel, which took over more and more billions, including Austrian billions, in order to transform into a transfer union and take responsibility for the former hard-currency countries – whether that is Germany or Austria – to pay the debt for all. And I say, Not at the expense of Austrian families, not at the expense of Austrian workers and socially weak people! We're not going to take part in that and we're not going to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5913	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e5944	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Look, Mr Vilimsky, of course, the right to vote in Vienna is now being negotiated – be glad you don’t “mate” it, you may still benefit from it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But go! Who believes his own shame?]] Now to the previous speakers of the government groups here on the speaker's desk of the National Council: We could not have been told that one simply has to get the suspicion – perhaps it is not evil at all – that this is the process that Members of the government are regularly victims of the government propaganda. And that's what's turned around again. Perhaps you should consider your constitutional order and control the government a little, make a few counter-proposals instead of going out here and making the government de facto the robbers – for nothing else is this process that you deliver here. Why Robber Leader? – Because it – and now we start where history has begun – was a veritable breach of constitution and remains and remains until now. And that is why – and I believe there are several members of the opposition parties and groups behind it – we should not let that happen by principle. [[It was in favour of Greens and FPÖ as well as BZÖ Members.]] In all other countries in Europe, you would hear the same and probably sharper, which is still relatively moderate. In any European democracy that has been developed, you would probably have a much stronger debate on withdrawal than here. You may have had to resign elsewhere if you intentionally break the Constitution and start-up. That is why there is also a reasonable, right, just-right upswing of the Members – and they obviously belong only to the opposition – who prove at least the backbone while you miss this. But it is not just about the matter and the content of this budget. In some cases, even from the government bank, the keywords have fallen, it is obvious that there are differing views. – Yes, it is about justice and renewal. It is also against this kind of reform, which you are probably more likely to be responsible for. And it can be shown that there are alternatives. I will take them a short time again, because this is a regular claim against better knowledge. It's also about saving in other places that makes sense – yes: save! – and, in turn, something else would have to invest. All this in the light of the fact that, of course, we know very well from the Green Group and we want to pursue it in such a way that the budget deficit has to be kept in check that it needs to be reduced relatively quickly so that debt can not grow so rapidly and can be caught again. Yeah, that's right and reasonable. That is why we also have these counter-proposals. I do not really think anything about this crisis, everything is bad – and then all expenditure increases and at the same time tax reductions may still be required. All of this doesn't lead to anything! There I am with you. If you discover such people: criticise – fits. But we from the Green Group demand that we proceed exactly differently. I say it very briefly to you, a few points in this federal financial law in 2011 – for all things that are in the reform exchange life, there will be no time –: But when we go here and look at the universities and schools, parts of the family allowance – parts, I only say more – a few matters of care money and the cuts in development cooperation, then the series is clear that in the first case, namely at universities and schools, you not only cut down without responsibility, but also tell a shame. You have even managed to bring the rectors' conference and its chairman to light for a few days by expecting them to get more, which is not proven to be the case, measured by expenditure up to now, although the money there would be urgently needed. I don't have to do that any more. So here with the real and additional €80 million – more is now not in the budget for 2011 – you have promised! That was your promise – even in Loipersdorf, until we predicted that you were dizzying there. The same thing with education and school. For the family allowance: If the reduction of the entitlement would be withdrawn from 26 to 24 years, you would not fall out of the crown. Access to care should also remain the same as now. And there is something else that could be done when it comes to development cooperation. This would cost no more than just over €200 million. Conversely, there are massive savings in this price situation. If one finally closes the army hospitals because the recruits are provided better and cheaper elsewhere, one could save. The use of assistance in Burgenland is now completely unnecessary. It is also quite clear that this preference of shipping diesel, agricultural diesel, trucks, as far as transit is concerned... – Mr. Vice-Kanzler, that is only 100 million in this position. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Savings could also be achieved with the government privileges that would be there: Cast out money for ads and consultants at the window. With these measures alone, we would already have the more than 200 million inside – that should interest you – and we are therefore bringing forward our amendments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is exactly the other way round, when Mr Cap says. Of course, there are our proposals, both small and large. I almost think it's peanuts. But you're not even ready to do these peanuts – you're so cowardly! – correct. It would be possible. If you've been talking about justice there all the time, then it's perfectly clear that you could do much more in the privileges of the foundation without anyone moving away. If we were to pick up only a quarter of the tax savings that exist because of this privilege for the really super rich, then that would only again be these 200 million to 250 million € – depending on the account. They come with 30 million, 50 million and at the final expansion stage with 80 million € and announce this as a great act. That's a few promills in this area. So that's not how it is! All this is an alibi and a shit. If you wanted to do something, you'd go to work like that. Then we would have compensated for this twice. So that's what it's all about. Renewal and just distribution is possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: It is, of course, sensible and right to put forward amendments and therefore call for the names of the votes so that everyone can see exactly how Members behave here in the House. You are committed to the people in your constituency, and that is exactly why we will check it out.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6020	Mr Ing. Westenthaler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6041	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Cap said in his speech that he wanted to continue the path of justice with his social democracy. - That shows this budget. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, what do you mean, "way of justice"? Is it your “way of righteousness ” to shorten family funds that mothers, as the “crown ” has written, are at the minimum of existence? “For food, just 8 euros remain.” Is it the “way of justice ” to cut family money while at the same time sending money to the Pleiteelands of Europe? Is it the “way of justice”, the caretaker to cancel the money while at the same time failed managers in their red and black parade ventures to rethink the money, as most recently at Vienna Airport? Is that the justice of social democracy? Or is it the justice of social democracy to burden pensioners, to burden the taxpayers, and at the same time to see how officials and politicians decide to take super-gages and pensions at the level of the European Union? Mr. Klubobmann Cap, I'm telling you something: If this is your “way of justice, ” this was a dangerous threat to the Austrian population today! We do not go along this path of justice. [[BZÖ and Abg. Tadler.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, Minister of Banking Pröll, you will be on Friday Celebrate your Christmas at home with your family, warm. There will be a rich covered table, good food, either a christmas gansl or a carp. [[Abg. Grosz: Or both!]] You will be happy and celebrate with your family; you have deserved it. The next day, as I could read in the newspapers, one of them will travel to the Nobel City of Kitzbühel on vacation and the other to the Nobel City of Lech and there for 14 days enjoy his ski holiday. [[Abg. Grosz: Then it will be eaten!]] Mr. Bank Minister, Federal Chancellor, I congratulate you. I tell you, a million people in Austria who live either below or at the poverty line cannot do so from Friday. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bank Minister, Mr Bundeskanzler, who decides on Friday what they can afford, hot or eat or pay rent, because all three things do not go. They must make this decision every day. 150,000 children living in poverty! And you'll also judge them for Christmas with this budget, that they'll all be burdened again and have to get deeper into the bag again. Mr Finanzminister, this is a policy! You should be at least if you are on the 24th. Bite in your Christmasgans on December, enjoy a little bit for what you're putting on the table here today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Bank Minister, now there is something to add, I read that you are taking in €3.5 billion more in tax – non-budgeted, unplanned tax revenue – for 2010. Mr. Finanzminister, 3.5 billion, tell us that you are coming right away: What to do You with this money? There are only two options: Either you say, okay, we have 3.5 billion more, and thus we do not give up today's decision of the taxes, or you take the money into your hands and give it back immediately to the skilled and diligent taxpayers through a tax reform. We ask you to do so, Minister of Banks. That would be a way of exploiting you. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Or your permanent campaign against the mobility of people. There are road projects being deleted. All over the cities, especially red and green, are covered with 30-km/h zones. Wonderful! But there are mainly the small commuters, the commuters who depend on their car. 1.8 million counterparts exist, conservatively calculated, in Austria, and they charge you with an additional €400 per year due to the increase in the mineral oil tax. And that at a time when we are on a two-year record of petrol prices. Mr. Finanzminister, can you really look in the mirror?- Oh, my God! And then you say, Well, they'll get it back over the premise anyway! - It's not true at all! Of these 1.8 million commuters who depend on their car, mainly workers in the country, women, families who need their car every day to fight their lives, only every second claim to the Pendler Pauschale. You know why? – Not because these commuters are too much, but because they deserve too little and are not at all entitled to receive, via income tax, the shuttle fee – after application – as well. Mr Bank Minister, we want finally to end with this unfair penalty, we want instead a real cost of travel for every employee for every trip to work and back. This is just relief for the drivers who need their car, Minister of Finance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to look at today's item on the agenda, which has not yet been discussed. As people are being taxed, there will be a total of €240 000 more decided here in the House by all parties for Members' employees! Look Put yourself in the mirror once! We certainly do not agree with this item on the agenda because it is unfair and unacceptable. [[OBJECTIVES]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig and also the other two parties, we invite you to drop this decision! It is unacceptable, it is totally unacceptable for red and black today to decide on tax increases and, at the same time, to put a 240 000 € package under the Christmas tree for Members! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ]] I think this is a scandal that will take place without us, without the BZÖ! We will not agree to this, and I hope that the media will make the appropriate pressure. It is not easy to decide a few thousand euros under the hand for Members and then to say outside: We're working for you! We are against it quite massively!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6161	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6256	Next speaker: Mr Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6277	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! They are now having a debate in which the support for Members' staff on the central issue and on a scandal is obviously made. I remember once again: Today, we are discussing a budget for 2011 and budget planning by 2014, which is clearly more about the basics – and about which we can easily argue – also about the priorities – as we are developing Austria together. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would ask you to come back to what is on the agenda. We have had to deal with a crisis together in the Federal Government, and we have nevertheless led Austria to the top of Europe in various areas. Let us also be proud of what we have achieved, not the government, but what we have achieved together and what has been decided here. [[Abg. Grosz: You have never led something to the top in this country!]] We have overcome the crisis as few other countries have managed: Our labour market situation is one of the best in Europe – be proud of it! We have one of the lowest budget deficits in Europe and also internationally – be proud of that! We have growth rates above the eurozone's average – be proud of that! All of this did not fall from heaven, but it was conceived in the government and discussed and decided in the National Council. These are facts that are not claimed by us, but that you can hear today in international media as regards the assessment of what was created in the crisis management. The second building block we are discussing today is the question after crisis management: How do we give the country another perspective by taking it out of debt? – One can of course argue about the priorities. I also see that there are pains and pressures in society, in the population and, of course, even if cuts are made, there is a certain resistance. And that's a good thing in a democracy. We have had the discussions, we have involved those concerned and those involved, we have also made adaptations to take hardness, but still not to lose sight of the savings target. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Westenthaler spoke about Christmas holidays, and this in a very Polish and very private and personal way, I tell you very clearly: Yes, we are making this budget proposal... – [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you going to Kitzbühel or not?]] [[Abg. Grosz: You take the people personally into your pocket!]] No reason for excitement, ladies and gentlemen. – We make this budget proposal for 2011 and the perspective until 2014, and this is also a Christmas message to give safety and perspective to children and our grandchildren in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't believe that!]] In a very intense debate – and this was especially important to me – we have taken care that, given the high tax burden that we undoubtedly have in Austria, the focus of the budget is on saving and not on revenue. With a 60:40 and even better 65:35 division, we also succeeded. Let us assume, ladies and gentlemen, that with this budget decision we have set the most important key points, but of course we also have tasks in front of us in the coming months and years. I'm not so presumptuous to find out here today that this was the absolute optim. No question at all: It is a compromise that is good for Austria and that can be carried together, but a number of tasks – administrative reform, negotiations with the countries, perspectives also in various social policy areas – remain ahead of us. And we should then work together and develop these tasks after the emotions here and after the decision-making process. It is a lot about reliability and responsibility in these days. Some Members play this game here: There in Brussels money is spent and Austria is saved. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have an Austrian responsibility – and to this I absolutely recognize – but also a European responsibility. Both can be solved, for both you can find solutions and make policy. We in the Federal Government are trying this every day and have given this budget, I think, the right perspective for Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go to Kitzbühel!]] In this sense, I look forward to the discussion here in the House in the next few hours and days, even though it will be accompanied by actionism. This is, of course, the right of every Member and every Member. I am very happy and happy that we are so close to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6401	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6422	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Seers and See you at home! The word ‘foreign shames’ has already been adopted today, and I must say quite honestly that as a Member of this House, ‘foreign shames’ are not a foreign word in view of some of the contributions that have come today. Mr Kogler's speech, which is quite controversial about the budget, has been beneficially withdrawn from others; he has dealt with the budget in an objective criticism. What we have heard here, especially from the FPÖ and the BZÖ, is cheaper – cheaper! – Populism, is a bad-making and a sick talk of Austria that people outside certainly did not deserve – and people certainly do not see things that way either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Yes, the truth hurts!]] [[Abg. Kickl: They haven’t been out there for a long time!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is a community that you operate!]] Ladies and gentlemen, loud screams do nothing better. Turn out, talk objectively about things and take responsibility! [[Abg. New builder: Yes, I'll tell you!]] To Mr Westenthaler and his very, very cheap populism at the expense of the parliamentary staff: Mr Westenthaler, this decision on parliamentary staff was taken by all parties in the Committee, which was unanimously adopted on 9 November. Decisions adopted by all parties in the Budget Committee on December. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: However, we do not agree!]] You said you were the ones who were working for the little ones. – To operate cheap populism here on the back of our small employees is the way you deal with politics. And this is deeply despised by us! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the conditions under which this budget will be adopted today. We have to deal with the biggest economic crisis since 1930, and we have managed it well so far. Let us just remember – an example from the area of BMVIT – the economic packages that have existed on the question of boosting the economy, on the question of jobs. Or remember the Christmas business last year, where better sales could be achieved than in the year before. Where does that come from? – This is why the measures were so complete and the negotiations between trade unions and the social partners were conducted in such a way that people had money in their pockets for spending it again in Austria to boost the economy and to keep the economy high. All in all, an excellent and correct step that has already been taken in the past. And yes, we have a savings package to adopt, and yes, some parts of this package do not please me personally, my group and many other people too, but we have for the first time for many, many years a budget that not only aims to save on expenditure, but that we manage revenue. And yes, we're going a way where we're trying to get something from people who have more than the rest. We have tried for the first time for the first time, at least in negotiations on financial transaction tax, capital growth tax and bank tax, and some of these points have been reached – not all, no question. A financial transaction tax or stock exchange sales tax would have been a step in the right direction in Austria too, and the taxation of assets over € 1 million would have been something too, which might have saved us some measures, especially in the family sector. But, ladies and gentlemen, the last step has not yet been taken. Josef Cap said it, and we also got the Okay from the Federal Government: There will be a number of negotiations on tax reform in the next few years. And believe me, we'll raise our voices loud.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6545	Mr Ing. Schultes is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6567	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! Today's bill is the result of a very intense discussion between the coalition parties, but also with the opposition, but ultimately it will be carried by the government and will be decided by our Members here in the House today. Ladies and gentlemen, we remember exactly: In 2008, there was a night when many election sugars were decided in this House just before a election. The economic crisis then came, and the money that came from among the people helped us get over the crisis. The only disadvantage was: We didn't have the money in the bag. The state has borrowed the money and has financed us with these debts. What we have now is nothing but the sod burning after the election sugars. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] We now have to take back some things that were overwhelming at the time, and we now have to see that the balance can be found again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have hopefully overcome the crisis – but we are not yet sure and know exactly that we need to plan the future carefully so that, in the case of cases, we have reserves once again to be able to carry out the country again. And our vice chancellor Josef Pröll ensures that a budget is made with an eye-catching that actually brings opportunities on the one hand, creates security and secures the future, and at the same time gives the opportunity to maintain the strength of Austria for future attacks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We hope we have the crisis behind us, and we are today at a point of rethinking. We know that we have to consider exactly what is important in this country and where our real foundations are. Our basics are training – we know that we need to improve in training – as well as transport, infrastructure, energy, industry. Agriculture is one of our basics; it is also a major issue in the future, as there are many open questions. And we are on the question of care, safety and health in a very fundamental discussion about the choices. We all know that money has to be spent first in order to finance the fundamental tasks, and beyond that, we can increase social security by what we achieve in prosperity, to an extent that there is no second time in Europe. That's the goal. But it's clear: If it becomes difficult, you will have to put the target shorter. And we are on the right track with this proposal today. We should also bear in mind that not everything the state can do. People in this country do a lot, they do violent things. Not every service is paid. There are many things that continue to help our country, which is simply done on a voluntary basis, in the families or even in the interpersonal sphere. We should not be We should not forget where this is organized, where there is a great deal of voluntary work being done: These are the communities, these are the countries. It is true that a good part of this tax margin also benefits the countries and communities, for we know: The success of Austria is a success of the joint work. Federalism is the basis, the federal government has the overall responsibility, the countries find the regional reference, and the communities are close to the citizens. That's how our success is explained. And only if we work together and develop our country together will it be possible to reach the top of Europe again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6636	Mr Grastaur has now come to the fore. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6657	High house! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to deal with two speeches from our Minister for Finance today. First of all, I would like to mention the October 2009 speech. Since, I have to say honestly, I was impressed when I heard what he said. But: What did he announce, and what did he finally bring together? He has announced: no new taxes. – Now we know that there are very new taxes: 500 million € Möst, 500 million € Bank tax. He has announced a uniform civil service law for all of Austria – that would be quite, very important. The fact, however, is another one. You don't even create a new teacher service right! He has announced the transparency database. – Yes, it has now come, but in what form! So that you have to be ashamed of it: no involvement of the countries and communities, so an unusable thing that only someone can see who receives the references himself. Finally, Mr. Finanzminister said – and I was particularly pleased about this – that there is a conclave. He will call all those who are interested in the state being rehabilitated. – So far, this conclave has not taken place, there is no white smoke, and I think the Minister of Finance is waiting until the black smoke rises from the ruins of his budget policy. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: At the ÖVP it can only be a black one!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second speech I would like to address is the one with which Minister Pröll founded the budget on 30 October. ==References== That's what he said: We need to reduce public debt. What does it really look like? – By 2014, the debt increases from €200 billion to €240 billion. We pay for interest of € 8 billion and then € 11 billion, have a deficit of € 7.5 billion and liabilities of € 125 billion. So, no talk about debt reduction! That's not all he said. Minister Pröll says that there is a good economic development in Austria. - Yeah, that's right. Thank God it is because the companies and the people in Austria are skilled. But this good development is not because of it, but despite that government. That's the difference! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, you are always talking about debt and comparing us with the countries that are really bad. Compare us with Switzerland! Switzerland has a government debt of 45 percent of GDP, has introduced the debt brake since 2001, has made a positive contribution to the government budget last year – and we have a minimum of € 13 billion. [[Abg. Krainer: But say the average economic growth of Switzerland in the last ten years, too!]] The claim that the budget is being rehabilitated on the part of the budget is absolutely incorrect. If you calculate – I don't know what you're thinking, we're guessing it like this: 20 percent through savings and 80 percent through new taxes. That's the fact. And with these savings, the families come under the wheels with €327 million of savings. Family, youth and students are saved – this is not our way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, you say: We must hand over solid state finances to the generations that are to come. – The opposite is the case: €23,000 in debt per capita and thus the highest debt of all time that we charge this boy. – That’s really not how it can be done! We must make urgent what the experts tell us before we eat interest: real sustainable reforms in the area of structures, administration, health and promotion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6764	Mr Walser is now speaking for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6785	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I would like to start with good news, good news from the Austrian school system, from the Austrian education system. I have been to many schools in the last few weeks – in Styria, in Vienna, in Salzburg, of course also in Vorarlberg, my home country – and I have seen many very dedicated teachers; Teachers who, in spite of all the adverse circumstances, strive to tackle new methods of creating new forms of education more closely to the pupils than has been the case so far. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But we're pretty fast on the bad news. The bad news – we all heard – is PISA, the bad news is reformable through this federal government and through the previous federal governments – no matter if black and blue or red-black, nothing has gone forward. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] In the last ten years, we have slipped from Rank 19 in the PISA ranking list to #31. Ten years ago, many countries were behind us today. And if you look at why they are before us – the example of Poland, for example – you can see that it is precisely because they have embarked on decisive reforms. The Poles started the joint school of the 6- to 16-year-olds. They have implemented it, and they have been preparing for 12th place in the PISA ranking. We can only dream of that in Austria today. If you listen to the reaction of the Federal Government, there is little hope. Mr Vice-Chancellor said the following in almost involuntary comics – I quote It's literally here –: “The PISA results are mainly based on reading errors and this is taught in the public school.” No, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, readers are not taught in our folk schools. Reading is taught in our folk schools, and unfortunately not to that extent that would be necessary. It's a little more elegant today, Klubobmann's head. He argued less clumsy, but unfortunately he also meant that this budget was alternativesless in this context and – I quote here too – that: The approach of total school is too simple. Debt is the folk school. – We have never been able to conduct our family meetings on Christmas without political discussions. We will not be able to do it in the future, because, Karlheinz, it is so that not the public schools are guilty of the PISA disaster. Blame is what has been done in the past. I remember that two hours were cut across the street – Minister of Education Gehrer – without looking at it, also in the public schools. – Then don’t wonder if the results get worse! This is actually the logical consequence of this. Contra-productive is also – and you have increased this with your policy – the pressure of music in the public schools. We exercise pressure on six, seven, eight-year-old children, who are nowhere international in this form. Teachers are condemned to execute this, and then we wonder when reading skills decrease because the children are afraid. Every school psychologist tells you that's not how it works. We need a school – I have seen it already in many approaches; much of what we call a green school is implemented at the folk schools – in which one can go into the students individually, a school in which one can teach step by step, a school in which one does not exercise senseless pressure, but conveys real skills. If you're talking about green activism that we practiced: No, we're practicing parliamentarianism here. We will bring you motions for resolutions without number tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, in which we will determine exactly what to do. It is up to you to deal with this, and I would ask you to enter into a constructive dialogue with us and not simply to cut down on the roller as before, where you must not cut short, namely in the field of education, and then make proposals to us. By the way, I would also like to make proposals where you can cut short. We have a four-member system for the 10- to 14-year-olds: four times school administration, four times different concepts, four times different school locations – we can eliminate all of this. The Court of Auditors confirms what we say: There are hundreds of millions to save, and we urgently need these millions for our education system. Give yourself a back! Maybe there's something like a Christmas miracle. Mr Schultes has spoken about a point of rethinking, perhaps there is also that in the field of education. We are ready for constructive work in this area, and we want to reform Austrian education in a truly fundamental way. We're ready. If you join us in this dialogue, we will bring something forward for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6876	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e6900	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have the x-th edition of the attempt of the government parties, to recoup any criticism of this government and the government's action in Austria. Mrs Oberhauser, we are not sorry for Austria, we are not criticising the Austrians, but we are criticizing you as representatives of the government parties and this Federal Government, which is far too little in response to the challenges of the present and future. [[BZÖ and Abg. New builder.]] Thank God we still have Austrians who have contributed to this and who have managed to make Austria much better than other countries in which the population is confident that life can be made according to shadow economy or through funding and subsidies. It is precisely these well-prepared Austrians who demand that budget deficits not be rehabilitated by tax increases and tax increases, but that the basic structures of the state of Austria be reorganised and adapted accordingly for the future. That is what we are calling for together with the Austrians, namely you, my group. Ladies and gentlemen, and not that you repudiate any criticism by saying that Austria and the Austrians should not be criticized. It is necessary to criticise this federal government for this standstill and also you as a Member of Parliament. [[BZÖ and Abg. May. Kogler.]] If the Federal Government presents this budget here today and the German Chancellor says that it is actually only starting, then this is a dangerous threat for the next three years – a dangerous threat that you will not continue to clean up the structures, will not reduce the privileges, but will continue to fall into the sack of the Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] You will also discuss tax increases over the next three years. This is the problem we all have with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. If Mr. Cap for the x-th time – and we know it too – for the time being, Mr. President, I would like to remind you of the opposition's proposals, and not even those of us, then I can only remind you that about a thousand of the opposition's requests are slumbering in the committees that are not being dealt with. [[Call at BZÖ: For decades!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Still!]] It was a special step in the budgetary negotiations that there was a request for concrete proposals for the budget and that this request was postponed because it was said that the budget was being dealt with just now, that this request for this budget could only be discussed afterwards. This means that you no longer take yourself seriously in defending the opposition's ideas. If you criticize the bank rescue, it is said again and again: You've all decided. – Ladies and gentlemen, you will never come to us again to tell us that it is a command of the hour that the Republic is in danger of being in jeopardy for our banks to be in danger of having to take part in an act of solidarity. Come on. You don't have to do it again! It cannot be that, if all that we have set as conditions is not respected and if that does not occur and we criticize it, you say: But you voted! It really can't be like that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We said we'd secure savings. – Yes, but credit needs to be provided more easily, and it needs to be monitored. - Nothing happened. With regard to the EU's targets, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr Finanz- und Bankenminister, yourself said that one would take action against the speculators at the European level. – Nothing has happened! They are now again liable for taxes for Ireland. What is the rating agency doing in America? – It stumps Ireland down again so that the whole problem is further potentified. So it will continue with the other countries, and nothing will happen. The stock exchange is still to be compared to a casino and not to a trading venue. Nothing happens! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] And especially those – the British – who are responsible are those who prevent such reforms from being made, because the London financial centre is more important to them than concrete measures for the European taxpayer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would be right, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, to do a lot of work. Yeah, but then you'll do it at last! We from the BZÖ have made enough proposals, for example, on the administrative reform, how to save entire levels that one should once consider a state task critique must be the state of the 21st century. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, he was still carrying out all those tasks. Is it true that he's fulfilled the age of the century? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] Can't you privatize and outsource there? Does every state still have its own legislative competence? If we still need a federal council with our own representatives today, could that not be a countryman? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Do we still need 183 national councillors, 100 countrymen in Vienna, over 1,000 district councils in Vienna? Can't you halve this and save more than €200 million by yourself? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, also from the Greens, let the ideology finally stand out at school! Our students, our children are not experimental rabbits for your ideologically motivated school attempts. Let's finally make sure that the basic techniques such as reading, writing and computing are taught in primary school – without ideology and without any round-the-clock! Then we have once created a basis for the future, and it does not even cost money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the health system: aggregate social insurance. What do we need different regulations for officials, self-employed, farmers and workers? They will decide for themselves in a differentiated system how and in what way they will be insured. And: finance less illness than promoting health! Or at the tax: A flat-tax model that saves administrative costs, brings performance incentives, prevents tax fraud and really secures Austria's economic location in the future. Mr Cap, I have just mentioned to you a whole series of concrete proposals for projects. One could discuss this for months, years, I have little hope – only if I look at the government bank – that this will happen. We will continue to force you to talk at least about it, even if you continue to postpone the thousand requests in the committees. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] The population will know how to decide the next election day.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7032	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7063	Ladies and gentlemen! The snow situation in Kitzbühel may interest you, Mr Westenthaler, but we are more interested in how the budget is socially balanced. I would now like to come back to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a savings budget, and it is the most natural in the world that the speakers of the opposition parties put their fingers exactly where cuts need to be made. [[Abg. Grosz: What is the weather like in Kitzbühel?]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is a reformable package!]] [[Call at BZÖ: The people will get the money out of the bag!]] Mr Scheibner, to what extent do the thousand opposition requests contained in the committees include savings measures? I would trust to bet – and I am now generous – that they include 90 percent of measures that require more budgetary resources, only the money, Mr. Scheibner, is not here at the moment. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] Mr Cap's question refers to where your proposals for savings are now to be made. [[Call at BZÖ:Did you not listen?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] And no answer has been received from you. [[Call at BZÖ:... earplugs out, the ideological!]] Mr Scheibner, because you mentioned the international comparison which came from other colleagues: Yes, you have to look at how the really difficult situation is being achieved in other countries at the moment and how we do it. There are many things in this country that are worthy of defense, and we must work with all our efforts to ensure that this path can also be continued. [[Abg. Petzner: Study fees, for example!]] We live in an economically stable country, in a country with high social security – I remember that we could also introduce basic security – and in a country with relatively low unemployment rates, which we naturally want to reduce further. [[Abg. Petzner: How about the tuition fees?]] These are important key data you can't just wipe from the table. I already know that we live in Austria and not in a analogue country. In this budget there are indeed cuts, the groups meet – the families, the students, the pensioners, also painfully the cuts in development aid – and I join our clubman: If there is again greater budgetary room, a balance will be created in these areas. But if you just look at the fact that in other countries more massive cuts, more massive cuts are needed, then the reasons for finding reasons that can be found in the way in which we shape our budget. The Federal Chancellor has today also pointed out: It is very important that the savings measures take place in a socially just way that the additional revenue takes place. This change of direction, which the Chancellor mentioned today, namely that those who can contribute more, should also contribute more in the future, is very important. I should like to remind you of previous Black Blue budgets, which the ladies and gentlemen decided on by the Liberals and the BZÖ – at that time still in sad agreement – that the families, the workers, the pensioners, have hit hard with €2.8 billion and the corporations have paid off. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! Your Utopia]] Savings have been put in place for those who had a lot – the corporations and the largest insurance companies. [[Call at BZÖ:... jobs created!]] A completely different path is now being taken: It will help those more who can also contribute more. What is particularly important to me is to stress: It is not only about future generations taking on fewer debts, but also about taking on more start-up capital and more opportunities for life – and therefore more investment for education as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7212	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7233	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Kuntzl, if you and others, and in a clear and negative way, are taking a position on corporations, insurance companies, banks, the industry, then do not forget that it is precisely these large enterprises that guarantee a good share of jobs in this country, which in turn allow us to record and celebrate one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kuntzl.]] You should not forget that either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, Minister of Finance Pröll has quite rightly said that this budget is primarily about preventing Austria from falling into debt – into a debt trap that seemed to be a little relatively abstract a year ago, but into which Greece and Ireland are only quite ready. Mr and Mrs Österreicher – including those who are now watching us on the screens – know very well that you should let your fingers know that you should not go this way. High budget deficits – only when they become double-digit or even more than 30 percent as in the case of Ireland – lead to these debt losses with all the associated problems. Mr Finanzminister! Members of the Federal Government! The budget, which is available here, together with the cut-offs, the improvements that have also been made in Parliament, fulfils this need, which reads as follows: Save – balanced, appropriate – to make Austria one of the model students, one of the models in terms of budget discipline in Europe. We can do this with this budget all the time. But at the same time, more to do on the expenditure side than on the revenue side – 60 : 40, which is also appropriate – and also in the taxation process so that you can say: All this is not pleasant, just as saving measures are not pleasant, but we can carry it. It is actually a successful mix, and with this feeling we represent the government groups quite self-confidence – although not cheering – in front of the representatives of the opposition. Propose Opposition: There we have experienced a spectacle: what it means to be opposition and not to be responsible. Someone who is a regular guest at the “Stanglwirt” in Going attacks government representatives because they are supposed to drive to Kitzbühel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't take the money away from the people either!]] An opposition group, ladies and gentlemen, I do not now call the name of the BZÖ, is on a five-party request, so a few days ago, in the Committee on Budgets, we put forward a request for a slight increase in the wages of the parliamentary assistants. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] I was there, she went with me! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] And now you want to know absolutely nothing about it, because Mr Westenthaler has enforced himself against Mr Scheibner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's opposition policy. You don't qualify for government responsibility! Hand at heart: I have spoken critically about the amount of the bank levy from this pult, because it is indeed quite high compared to the Germans – but if the sector goes with it, be it! Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this for years and days: A person who gains profits from share price gains should also tax and tax them. There is nothing else in the securities market. By the way: Speaking here of speculation, Mr Krainer, is a bit of a recognition of the fact. Much more people invest in shares than in speculation is the same. But whoever makes profits, it's supposed to be taxed. Representatives of the coalition partner, including the Federal Chancellor, now find our tax system damn unfair. What I find critical is the now very high tax and tax rate of 44.1 percent in this country. There we are the top of Europe. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you are in the government!]] Nor are we that group in the government that will help to think about new taxes immediately now and, for example, develop the tax that Mr Lacina 15 years ago – a SPÖ Finance Minister, Mr Cap, you can still remember him, he is still active! – the asset tax has been abolished. Now that we have a wealth tax again, I think, at a time when, ladies and gentlemen, France is the last country in the European Union to know this tax, and is in the process of abolishing it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] So: Let us not go the way to invent new taxes and taxes in the next few months, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, but let us see that the tax rate in Austria is being reduced again! The Germans and Swisss are far behind us.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7362	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7383	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to speak to you personally today and ask you: Can the Austrians trust you? - You say yes. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes!]] But what is true of the Vice-Chancellor's word when you are in the ORF "Summer Talks" on 1st. In September 2009, the Austrians were told: “I am not willing to introduce new taxes. We already have a tax burden that has been washed.” – This is a literal quote from you, Minister of Finance! You are right, we have a tax burden that has been “washed. ” However, you have brought the Austrians – I do not want to use the word “lying” because this is forbidden in the House, but in other words – behind the light, because you have introduced new taxes and introduced them with today’s day. You declared in February 2010 in the press, Minister of Finance: I have no reason to think about new taxes. – This was in February when you had already commissioned your staff in the Ministry of Finance to think about new taxes and tax increases and to draw up the laws. In November 2009 in the magazine “Austria” you said the following in a big interview – that was the title –: Pröll: I assure you there will be no new tax increases! Mr Finanzminister, what is your word? What's in place Your promise to the Austrians? – I note that you have deceived the Austrians and led them behind the light! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] Let us look at what has become of this promise to avoid tax increases: They turn harder on the control screw than ever before. But you do not meet the rich, as Mr Cap has noted here, and not those who have caused the crisis, but you meet the socially weak, you meet the families, you meet those who need care, you meet the pensioners. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Klubobmann's head here found: ‘This budget’ is ‘alternatively non-existent’. – I say: This budget is headless, and it is mainly heartless because it hits the most socially weak. I would also like to clean up with the Mar that Klubobmann Cap brought. We will, he has said, meet the financial sharks with the tax increases, with the tax burden, with the bank levy, so to speak. – In reality, you meet bank customers, everyone who owns a savings book, anyone who owns an account, and anyone who has received a small loan from an Austrian bank. They meet families with children and thus endanger our future. They meet the pensioners and thus those who have contributed to the prosperity in this country. They meet the drivers and especially the commuters – again the socially weak! – that the car that needs petrol to get to work. Finally, I would like to make a point: These budget accompanying laws, which are adopted here today, are threatened by massive constitutional complaints. The Federal State of Carinthia will object in particular in the social field, the Federal State of Vorarlberg has announced that it will go to the highest courts, the Catholic Family Association – we will see whether the word is true – has announced that the highest courts are called, and constitutional experts are entitled to these complaints. I therefore ask you to reconsider this law before it is actually passed. This decision will not be worth anything because it will be repealed by the Supreme Courts.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7439	For the next five speeches, one minute more is available per contribution than originally planned. I call Mr Pendl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7476	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We are used to budget debates over the years, but with this budget I have the impression that some have forgotten the greatest financial and economic crisis since the 1920s as well as seemingly interesting stories about the Hypo Alpe-Adria. You are here, my colleague, and you are telling me something like that. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Mr. Lacina was in the Supervisory Board!]] That's where we've had to pay more as a federal government and as a republic. I beg you! What “believes ” people have to convey to them is truly under every criticism! [[Abg. Grosz: “It”!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this federal government and we, together with the necessary decisions, have shown what are the right measures that have also been taken clearly. It is clearly on the table today at European and international level that these were the right measures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we need it... – Don't laugh! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler, the parliamentary staff have deserved for years that we are working for them! [[Abg. Grosz: That's what the Members do!]] Play this game here ridicules every description I tell you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Let everyone out so that he can spend more!]] I believe that both the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and our parliamentary staff deserve thanks from all of us. At least they did not deserve what “it ” here“ shows. ” That is what I am saying, ladies and gentlemen, in all clarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: “It”! Don't even get the bags full because he's got so much!]] If we are talking about the budget without interruption as at a first reading, I would like to make it clear to you that: This budget is also a clear signal for the security of Austrians. If you look at the budget, you will see that in the classical area of crime control, enough resources have been provided to continue the successful path that has been taken in recent weeks and months. This is important because we have falling crime rates, we have increasing levels of education. That is exactly where the budget provides for the necessary means to continue this so important path in the interests of the people of our home country, not only in terms of objective, but also subjective security. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, security is also subject to the same debate as here on the budget. Everyone wants more, but also wants to be saved. There's someone to show me how it is! However, with the figures, we can show exactly how this Federal Government is working properly, effectively, in the security field. I well remember what it was like – and we can discuss that as long as you want – when we introduced the asylum court. Look at the speeches! Today one can say that it is the biggest success story in this segment of politics: excellent work, all new cases processed in a short time... [[Abg. Grosz: You are really the born failurers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] – You don’t know it, and don’t look at it, that’s the problem, colleague Kößl! [[Abg. Scheibner: But the Minister of the Interior said...!]] We have already reduced the backpack, which has been discussed over and over again, to two thirds. I am sure that this budget will contribute to reducing the remaining backpack – the third – in the current budget year 2011. I am curious today about how we will discuss this situation together in this House. The figures are on the table, ladies and gentlemen. In the interests of the Austrians, I invite you to raise a little more materiality – the people in our home country and finally we all deserve it. I would like to invite you to this step.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7651	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I can assure you, honourable Member: I'm not going to Kitzbühel, I'm not going to ski anymore, I'm working around the Christmas season. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: the one who is in the back. The one behind you!]] Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned it: The crisis is not over. We see this not only in Austria, but also in Europe. The Austrian company has mastered this crisis relatively well. In order for this to remain the same, the company must save Austria – with a great deal of attention – and also invest very wisely. Of course, there are different opinions on the way there is in the nature of the matter. The location determines – as we know – the position. Mr Cap said in his speech that it would be wise to draw up a little history! - You're right. I also live in history, in the same time as you. You may be one or two years older. Let's look back in history! 1970, Government of Kreisky, Alone Government: What was then? – Kreisky said – quote –: I prefer a million more debts than a unemployed person! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But with this, the unhindered debt of this Republic began, we do not forget! [[Call the SPÖ: Weakness!]] And the FPÖ has helped, they have supported this. We have to keep this in mind again and again. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It can't be that we build the future on debts and burdens of our children and children. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Take a look at the figures in debt development!]] Austria has become a welfare state, and that is a good thing. For us as an ÖVP is completely out of dispute: All those who need our help and our support will also get them. But all those who believe that they can put themselves in the hammock in our social state, we will call upon them to do their job adequately. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: What about the developing countries?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Families with three children, with four children in the hammock?]] Let's not forget – it's been said a few times today –: The whole is financed by the taxpayer. – That is right, and I am very glad that some Members have already said that. So far, we have forgotten those who pay the taxes. We're all doing a good redistribution. The fact is, half of the Austrian population working is not paying a penny of income tax or wage tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] And of the rest of the half that pays taxes, one fifth pays 80 percent of the tax revenue – 80 percent! And now I'm asking you: Can we imagine paying even more for these service providers who pay the taxes? – I say: No, we can't! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So what's going on? – We need to rethink our state structure and put our budget in order. We have to set up reforms – some have already been mentioned – with the ÖBB, health care, administration. That is out of question. We have taken the first steps with this budget and with these accompanying laws, which we shall adopt. Some thorns are involved – I admit that – but it is generally reasonable. You have to say that here. Mr Bucher referred to the food tax. You meant the AGES. The fact is that the money for these AGES comes from the Ministry of Health. And that's not the ÖVP, it's a Ministry of Social Democrats. That's not us. [[Abg. Petzner: But you decide together!]] That doesn't matter. That's what you have to say. So: Each group must make its contribution. However, there will still be many steps to reform our state budget in the future. We from the ÖVP do not want our children and our grandchildren to pay our debts. [[Abg. Bucher: Don't make any debts!]] Otherwise, they'd be the way my generation is doing. We pay the debt from the 1970s – a lot of money that we have to spend on interest rates and interest rates, a lot of money that we urgently need in other areas. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian company must save, but – also addressed to you, Mr Bundeskanzler – save through small expenditures and not through large revenues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7826	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7848	Mr President. Mr Chancellor, Deputy Chancellor, Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers who may still be interested in TV screens! Again on the concentration and clarification of what is being discussed, how the dimensions look and how the jubilation by the government parties can be estimated: We have spent around €70 billion and have a real savings of €406 million compared to the previous year's budget – no longer, €406 million! – And for that the whole theatre with non-compliance with the Constitution and other productions more. Of the € 406 million real savings, 80.5 percent are for family and youth. 80.5% of the real savings are broken down, cut off and saved from the areas of family and youth – so far to the overall social position that has been taken here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: It is a lamentable evil that on the occasion of the budget matter in the context of the budget accompanying laws, the 156 materials counted this year and this time – 156 individual budget accompanying legislation! – a housing strategy is being driven, namely, as a kind of Huckepack luggage, which otherwise is at the very heart of criticism and debate, because they are naturally covered by the large framework budget. On the occasion of this project, it has cut itself – and this is repeated this year too – to take various unpleasant and also legislative measures to characterise as evil. A point in the field of justice, for example, is strongly criticised by the Supreme Court, the judicial professions, lawyers, notaries and the Supreme Court: the reduction of the time of legal practitioners from up to nine months to five months. This is a loss of culture. Of course, this looks very inconspicuous, you can easily smuggle it in, I would say, into the entire budget system, but of course it concerns everyone. If the training period of the finished lawyer who comes from the university is reduced to six months in the field of practice of so far nine months – before it was one year, that has been shortened – so that it is actually halved against earlier, then this is a measure that damages the quality of the judicial area. Everyone agrees on this. To the next point, which actually sheds a special light on the willingness to damage land, people and systems. And here I refer to my narrower Urheimat, the Waldviertel, to Article 95 of the Budgetary Accompaniment Act: The Federal Law, by which the staff of the army forestry administration will leave Allentsteig to another legal entity. This diction alone is already defying: You leave staff to a different legal entity as if it were a few tool rubbles or a mess. That's how you deal with staff! What's behind that? – The Forestry Administration of the Allentsteig Troop Training Centre is moving to the Federal Forests – 35 people. Everyone already knows that 30 will be terminated the next day. In this extremely disadvantaged region, the fathers of 30 families are thrown out, i.e. unemployed. And the second effect: a massive damage to military ability. Allersteig is the only place where large-scale exercises can still be performed. This is being severely affected. There has almost been an uprising of the mayors of this region. Just, it's useless, it's going to be over. In fact, the region lives on the fact that there are thousands of people per year and spend money there. There's nothing else there, everything has already been ruined. And the Federal Government is not prepared to take account of even one interpretation of small particular interests. This is the philosophy of the budget makers this year!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7905	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e7926	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear viewers! Last week, 3 000 wooden crosses were set up in front of Parliament in front of the corresponding budget committee, 3 000 wooden crosses symbolising the death of 3 000 children, set up by the ad hoc initiative ‘3000 children's lives.at’. You all here in the house will know it, you have received all the letters from women and men in Austria who are outraged by the planned cuts in connection with development cooperation. One can say that was a very dramatic picture. You can understand the picture very ambivalently, but it was there and has also very busy us all. Some find it tasteless – like Mr. Klubobmann's head. And it was also amazing in the Committee what reactions have just come from the ÖVP. After all, this action was represented by people like Ex-Commissioner Fischler, Franz Küberl von der Caritas, of large organizations whose representatives were also present in front of these wooden crosses at the time. The Committee then said that it was possible to exaggerate things. That's right, unfortunately, these are painful cuts that we have to take, they're alternativesless. Alternatively and painfully, these are the mantras, which are now permanently thrown down when it comes to drastic and really unfair measures in the coming budget. Who's supposed to wonder? Especially in the field of development cooperation, there is no particularly large lobby, not even in the government, but also not in the house. That is, it is not so difficult to make cuts just on the back of those who are particularly affected. You, Mr. Finanzminister, were worth half a sentence with a “sufferer” before that. Yes, unfortunately, this is also an alternative, we have to accept the reduction in funds for development cooperation. Admit that you are glad you have found a niche where it is relatively easy, where you can save 83 million in the next four years! And tell us that too! There is no lobby, there is no one who “skins herself. ” And tell your partners in countries like Mozambique, Burkina Faso or Bhutan! Sage They said to them: Okay, unfortunately, it's not possible anymore, dear people, we can no longer carry out projects and programmes that have worked very well so far, where we have been very good, very reliable partners! There's no more money for the schools. There is no more money for water treatment plants. You'll probably be able to do it yourself. You don't have to think anymore. We don't have to explain how agriculture works anymore. I hope you can do it yourself. - Tell them, please! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do you say? – No, only 9 million will be saved next year, and then we will keep looking. It's not like that! We know that the plan will go so far by 2014 that development cooperation will be drastically saved so much that you really have to ask yourself how far you can still work on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This shows, not least, the answer of Mr Schüssel – as he is now, he has not been there all day – to the protests of the many people in connection with “3000 children’s life.at”. He writes that Austria spends €930 million on development cooperation. This is actually a large sum, in contrast to that, 9 million very few work. But tell me, please, the whole truth! Say that this almost €930 million does not finance development cooperation in the specific case, not the projects and programmes, but that a huge trickery takes place with what is then an official development money and development performance of Austria! For example, the entire refugee area flows in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] But a lot flows in from the refugee area. It involves what scholarship students, students from the developing countries, are costing here. These are statistical figures, these are symbolic numbers that are counted in. What did There is an increasing reduction in the number of specific projects, and I think that is very disgraceful. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls.]] These are not concrete projects. It's nice to be able to cover up in rhetorical dictionaries and then lean back on how you do it. I don't think your handling of this is very responsible. In this context, I would also like to ask. We were all asked to submit a request for the purpose of assigning the ticket charges together. This obviously does not happen – not by the SPÖ, not by the ÖVP, even not by all of us in common. We shall make this request. You said before that we should make counter-proposals. This is where the counter-proposals begin, which will be introduced all day long. This is not just an activism, which we are carrying out with it – I also ask for a name-named vote in this context – but it is living parliamentaryism. I am therefore submitting the following amendment in relation to the 2011 Budgetary Accompanying Act: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8054	Mrs Schwentner, please also read what is said in the boldly printed word “approach”. That's a formal part of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8069	‘The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026 dB) is amended as follows:’
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8093	Thanks a lot. – The request has been properly submitted and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8172	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8208	Mr President. High house! Mr Bank Minister, you like it when you are quoted – nothing prefers Josef Pröll's quotations than that of Josef Pröll. [[Abg. Bucher: He inherited this from the uncle!]] I want to do this favor to you today. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I've never heard and seen anything else from you. He loves it hot. Your whole group is always equipped with quotations, where they are so to speak, imaginatively waving the incense in your direction. So I'll try it now, too. Erich Streissler in the “Small Newspaper” of the 30th century. ==References== – Just to remember: Erich Streissler is the Doyen of the Austrian National Economics and Chairman of the National Debt Committee. [[Abg. Amon: This is not a quote!]] So Erich Streissler: “This budget is particularly cowardly, it corrects too little.” – So no incense! Other quotes: ‘Top managers complain of the lack of structural reforms.’ And Monika Kircher-Cohl of Infineon: ‘The major reforms needed at the end of a crisis have not been addressed.’ Peter Oswald of Mondi Europe & International: "The maintenance of debt prolonges the negative spiral. The major issues of structural reform must first be resolved." [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] Niki Lauda, flyNiki, according to “Economic Sheet” of 1. December 2010: “This will not allow the state to be rehabilitated.” Peter Pfanner, Party Friend of the Minister of Banks – and by the way, a friend of the ÖVP Klubobman’s head – said: “With this budget, we are not set up for the future, but once again we only kitt holes.” Hanno Soravia of the Soravia Group: “Instead of developing a concept for the next generation, politics has argued about teachers and distribution of power.” Robert Hartlauer, also an entrepreneur: “We need a real and massive administrative reform, only in this way can money be saved in a large way.” Such quotations, ladies and gentlemen, would be endless – and they are all not flattering. And these are not BZÖ representatives, not oppositionists, but economists! This, Mr Bank Minister, is the people who have to make the money in this country that you are free to put on the table in Brussels on every occasion! This is the problem behind your policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Your own team doesn't follow you on this question either. – But the next attack is already there – and I look at that when we discuss in the host economies that in the future the hostess will have to pay the controllers additional and feudal too! For example, € 40 million in addition to food supervision, ladies and gentlemen! Instead of abolishing and eliminating supervision, supervision is extended! This is the central government policy of the Austrian People's Party! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What Does You're so affected now? [[towards ÖVP]] – No more calls? Completely shocked. Did you not get over all this from the ÖVP? Didn't that tell you a host yet?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Bucher: You haven't gotten it yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I advise you for the future: Go to your tribal tables next year, and if the host does not reject you at the door, then expect to be thrown out sometime later! 40 million € for raising these companies' inspectors on the neck. This policy is the exact opposite of a medium-sized policy, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Minister for Banking, for the time being: All these managers who regret the unwillingness of this federal government to take up a structural reform are right. And now I'm bringing you a series of proposals in the Staccato. First proposal: Get rid of the Burghaupt team! Get rid of the Financial Procuratorship! Get rid of the Federal Offices for Eich- und Vermeichungswesen! Get rid of the labour inspectorates! Take off the business inspectorates! Create You're the second Chamber of Parliament! Get rid of the indirect federal administration! Create You special authorities such as the agricultural senate, land transport senate, school senate, asylum senate and so on! Then you have structural reforms in your pocket, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Mr Bank Minister, as long as you don't do all this, you just get people in the bag, but don't change structures at all! You can also take a good example with the parties. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament on the reduction of all Party funding: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Chancellor is invited to start negotiations with the federal states without delay with a view to limiting the current funding opportunities for political parties to a maximum of €5 per person entitled to vote in the respective field of action.” [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, would be a signal. However, you do not do anything like that, and therefore everyone is right – and that is not a polemic of an opposition fraction, and it is, in most cases, a polemic of my own group – which you say: In the necessary structural reform, they have failed pitifully! For a time again: pitiful failure! Instead, on every occasion, however, you place billions of euro in liability capital on the European Union table, where it is also a matter of organising appropriate reporting. Ladies and gentlemen, I call you now only one sector where you should never save if you have the future in mind, and that is with young people. Mr. Bank Minister, future is not a bank, but future is young people! Young people are the bearer of the future, not the banks. Not Raiffeisen is the bearer of the future, but of the young. Young people are called families. [[Abg. Silhavy: Yes, yes!]] The families in this country are bad enough. Who said yes, yes? – Mrs Silhavy once again spoke. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] When it comes to young people, Mrs Silhavy even wakes up. Ladies and gentlemen, you should know that there are 25 000 children of divorce per year in this country! Per year! I should also like to remind you that 175 000 single-schooling benefits must be provided for the family which: They don't want to do it, nor do they want to honor it. It is also worth remembering that there are a million families in this country who care for the future of this country for young people and thus for the future of the country! In fact, the Minister of Banks does not take care of this with his budget, but he is shortening it there. And that's exactly the biggest sin of this budget, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, that you save on young people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also quote someone who – I do not know if he has been transferred to the BZÖ – has been a member of the ÖVP until recently, namely Mr. Landeshuptmann Dr. Herbert Sausgruber from Vorarlberg. I am astounded at the way my colleague head goes out of here, and I am able to say that this is an unbelievable polemic, because this government is spending so much more on the families than on everyone else! But this, Mr Kopf, has not yet arrived at your own head of state, because this one is rightly preparing, as I believe, a constitutional court complaint against your laws, with which you are accompanying this anti-family budget, with which you are accompanying this pro-banking budget, Minister of Banks! That is why I say, Mr President-in-Office Herbert Sausgruber, that if he takes the path to the Constitutional Court, he is right, unfortunately, that other groups do not take what I regret. [[Abg. That's it!]] - We're looking at that. Mr. Bank Minister, at least we have good certificates from your own party, who believe that you are saving exactly the wrong sector, namely among the families, that you are saving the most in the future! That's the wrong way! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the Austrians then have to hear in return that we pay a total of €4.8 billion for Turkey alone in pre-accession aid, then every Austrian knows that, with the confessions that Turkey should not come to the European Union, people will in reality become dizzy again. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] €4.8 billion for Turkey – and the Austrians no longer know how to finance their families! Mr President, I do not know if the 10 minutes have been reached.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8414	We decided on a speech time of 7 minutes, which was unanimous. They wanted to put forward another motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8434	Mr President, I have already brought it in. The speaker has 10 minutes after the Rules of Procedure, and I have left these 10 minutes. Mr President, there is nothing else left to you...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8456	Mr President, at the beginning of the agenda, we decided unanimously on the speaking time per person – and this will be the last speaker for you until 1 p.m. I'd like to give you time for a short closing.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8477	You have unilaterally reduced this speaking time, and I therefore use my business law to exploit my speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8504	Mr President, we should like to clarify this in a break in the President-in-Office's office. The fact is that you too have to stick to the speaking time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8580	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8601	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Something is lazy in the state of Austria – to continue where colleague Stadler has stopped. Do you know who these words are from? – Last night, in the “In the Centre” programme, she said so to speak, your industrial industrialist Hannes Androsch, who unfortunately did not prevent the economic crisis, as one of the first to reduce jobs in Austria or to outsource jobs. So much to your Hannes Androsch, who lets you judge that something is lazy in the state of Austria. So not only the opposition criticizes the budget, but also one of your leading candidates in terms of economy, Hannes Androsch, who has just said that something is lazy in the state of Austria. Now to the ÖVP: In the ORF mission “In the Centre” yesterday was also an unknown to you, namely ex-EU Commissioner Franz Fischler, and he meant: There has been a great coalition to solve major problems, because only a large coalition can solve major problems. He also meant that one should divide the large chunks into smaller ones, which would be more digestible, and perhaps some progress would be made in this Federal Government. – So much for criticism from your own ranks – and not just from the opposition! This confirms: This economic and budgetary policy, which this government operates, is driving our country to the wall. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: I do not know where you have learned to count – Mr Bank Minister says the BZÖ, I say, Minister of Finance, because you say: 65 percent savings and 35 percent new taxes. I don't know how you get on it. At the time you went to school, there was no PISA study yet. My colleague Fichtenbauer has predicted to you that we have 460 million net savings, i.e. effective savings, and 1.2 billion tax increases. Now I don't know, have you just confused the two numbers 65 and 35, or do you still think your bill is right? Should this be the case, I would think fundamentally at your place, as you expect in the future, with the next budgets to be drawn up, so that perhaps by the year 2013. – So much about your budget policy in this government. I now come to what my previous speaker Harald Vilimsky has said, who specifically directed the red side of this House, that some of the privilegesmen sit here in this House, which are still in the old pension system, as former or still Members, and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You said earlier that the number mentioned in terms of what you deserve is not true. It may be. I therefore ask you the question: Will the pension you expect be just over €10,000 or less than €10,000? [[Abg. Dr. Cap shakes his head indiscriminately]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap shows down with his thumb!]] But you will be able to explain this to the minimum pensioners in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to make another request, which reads as follows: Resolution Mr Themessl, colleagues and tobacco tax law 1995 The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council by 01.03.2011 a novel to the Tobacco Tax Act, which provides for a tobacco tax adjustment for fine-cut cigarettes and at the same time lifts the tobacco tax increase for cigarettes as of 01.07.2011.” I'll explain to you briefly why. – Because In principle, they are also based on completely incorrect considerations in your tax revenue. They expect that the increase in tobacco tax will amount to around €100 million more in tax revenue in the budget. This milkmaid bill did not start in 2004/2005. At that time, the tobacco tax was increased by 30 cents, resulting in a drastic increase in smuggling and not in the revenue of 100 million euros, but in only 20 million euros. If you, Minister of Finance, now increase the tobacco tax in two steps by a total of 40 cents, I think that the smuggling product, which currently accounts for about 17 percent of the tobacco products consumed in Austria, will increase dramatically. The revenue in this area will then not move in the order of magnitude as you are expected, but will be substantially below. In addition, it endangers thousands of tobaccotraficients, especially in border regions of Styria, Burgenland, Lower Austria, Upper Austria, those countries bordering on the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia and Cetera. The Trafianten who are located there will endanger you and make you dependent on alms, because they will no longer be able to survive alone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8730	The two motions for resolutions are properly tabled and are being dealt with. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8837	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8858	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the opposition parties can also expect a constructive and honest assessment of the budget and government work, as the FPÖ politicians deserve the same as everyone else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I do not know why you are bewildering here, my colleague, you deserve the same as all other colleagues, but stand out here and define your work in the form of a lump-sum condemnation by saying no to everything. – The Austrian taxpayers certainly don't pay you for this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us honestly judge government work. – Austria, the Austrian taxpayers, the government has led our country through the crisis well. I believe, Mr Kickl, that we agree. Do you think it's nothing that Austria, together with the Netherlands, has the lowest unemployment? Is that nothing for you? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the labour market packages, economic packages, all the measures that have led this country through the crisis have cost money. The government does not make the budget fun or because it does not think anything else, but because, unlike you, it assumes responsibility for this country. Ladies and gentlemen, This government had to do the repair work for the crisis. In this respect, too, the whole of Europe is envying us for this budget, because, unlike all the other countries of Europe, Austria is The budget is balanced, half of which consists of revenue-based measures and half of expenditure-side measures. As the only country in Europe, we ask for a checkout in the revenue of banks, corporations and foundations. We create the 3 percent in 2012 and are the only country in Europe to implement offensive measures despite a savings budget. That is why I ask you to be more constructive in the course of the day – and today there will be much criticism from the opposition. Of course, it is your job to also practice criticism, but this permanent downfall mood does not do you well either, which does not benefit anyone, but it actually condemns politics. People don't believe anything more that's also because people don't believe everything is going terrible in our country, because they see it's not. That is why I ask you, especially the colleagues from the FPÖ, to make a little more constructive criticism instead of this permanent downfall mood, because that is dangerous to democracy, because then, of course, people don't want to hear and know anything about politics – just as little of you as they do from us! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, what we are doing next year must also be the subject today, and Mr Bartenstein has said that there should no longer be any tax reform. That's where I have to remind him of the government programme: A tax reform will still have to take place in this legislative period, as we have foreseen in the government programme, which will relieve labour and increase the tax burden on wealth, because it is not to be seen – and this must also be a lesson from the crisis – why banks that make millions of profits again do not also make a contribution to the state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8942	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e8964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rudas, the fact that the FPÖ is often acting dangerously against democracy, I will give you the right to do so. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of criticizing the budget here, I do not quite see it, and I would not think that one is doing something bad here, where people see it different, but I would think that all of us here, who have already spoken here about your budget, the government's budget, are actually doing exactly what, I think, Mr Kuntzl has also mentioned, namely putting our fingers on the wounds, not only on your wounds, but also on the wounds that the families, the young people, the minimum pensioners and all the people who really need more care of the government are being added. If Mr Cap says that the path of social justice must continue, not only towards the opposition parties, but also towards the coalition partner, he has forgotten a political group here, namely his own. I wonder, Why does he forget his own group when he talks about continuing the path of social justice? - Because he thinks you've already lost hops and malts? I don't think so! I don't think hops and malts are lost. Then: The Vienna SPÖ has shown in negotiations with the Greens that you are ready to talk and that you You can be very sure that you can take money into your hands, even in times of crisis, to prevent the threat of poverty, and that you are really willing to take budget resources in order to help the poorest and the poor. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I don't think he didn't look in your direction – and if, then, it would be very realistic – because he believes everything is fine, because this budget clearly shows that it's not all right that you – and that's what many speakers have said before me – and that's what's going to concern us for the next three days – have presented a budget that meets the poorest and the poor. In the area of the family, take away those means that already have little – the students, the multi-child families, the single-parents – and do not grab where you can reach out. We have counter-proposals. We do not say that everything is all right, we say very well that there are points where there could be a return in the area of families, for example, on the child allowance you introduced in the 2008 family relief package, on the tax relief package, but it is for the benefit of just the good and tax servants, but at least those who do not pay taxes, or those who pay little taxes. But this budget has not continued the path of social justice, but this budget has continued the path that the SPÖ's ÖVP has obviously been using, namely the way to protect and access its own clients, where it is expected that the people who are concerned will not be able to defend themselves anyway, because they are so busy daily in finding their way out, ensuring their existence that they do not have the opportunity to really express their power and their anger. But let me now talk about an area where the process is really white cock and family politics is absolutely shortsighted. Last year we talked about the fact that the federal grant for childcare 2010 is out of date, that it is still not well ordered for everything, but that there are still numerous resources to be used, from all levels, from the federal government, country and local authorities to expand further childcare facilities. We Greens or I made a request in the middle of the year, in which I asked you not to let this federal grant expire, but to extend it beyond 2010. They have delayed this with the reason that this would come anyway, and in the last budget committee, Minister Mitterlehner has to admit to the third demand and admit that this federal grant will not come. In other words, in 2011 there will be no funds for the expansion of childcare places, i.e. there will be no increase in the number of childcare places in 2011, and that means that many parents who are now in Karenz and who then want to return to their profession will not find places to care for their children. This means that there is no social justice because there is no adequate educational opportunities for all children. And education does not just begin in school, as many of you believe, but education already starts in kindergarten. And I have to say, Against the background of the PISA results, it is absolutely disastrous to stop the funding for language promotion. That is, those children who have linguistic deficits – and these are not, as BZÖ and FPÖ believe, children with migration backgrounds, but to a large extent, those children who have linguistic deficits, although they do not have migration backgrounds, are not helped because all these funds are set aside. And this means that neither educational justice nor social justice will rule. I now put forward three amendments to the Green Group's amendments, starting with the [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to say a few words. Amendment by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Kogler, Mr Musiol, Mr Schwendtner, Mr Brosz, Mr Van Miert and others, on Articles 135 Z 1 to 11 This application concerns the removal of family allowances between the ages of 24 and 26. This is to be taken back completely. The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: In Article 135 Z 1 to Z 11.’ As a third request, I should like to make one. Amendment by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Kogler, Mr Brosz, Mr Schwendtner, Mr Enrights, on Rule 135 Z 13. The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: Article 135 Z 13 shall not apply.’; This request concerns the reduction of the multi-children's allowance. This reduction is to be completely withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ, you will have the opportunity to demonstrate in national votes how you keep it with social justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9118	All three amendments tabled are under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9251	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9275	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Politics is the mood, and we are experiencing this very instrument in here. And the mood that you, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, the Austrians present during this pre-Christmas season, even makes me horrified. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, it is appropriate that money be spent at times to deal with crises. That's what they did. And when you were spending, you were all good courage and were there, and that was right. And then comes the time when you need to consolidate households where you have to save, but then you say goodbye and make a mood of hopelessness, fear and – yes! - the unrest. And that is not fair – not to us rulers, but to the Austrians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] It is not fair for the following reasons: The economic data are excellent and continue to show up. Unemployment is, vice versa, going down and falling. Therefore: The Republic and the economy are on the right track thanks to the measures taken by the Federal Government. But exactly when we are on the right path and try to take socially just, generation-friendly savings measures across society, you are doing cheap polemics, mood policy and fluctuations. And that is absolutely incorrect in my opinion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: Go, stop!]] We experience it again and again in the European area: If key people say something wrong about the euro, then in minutes the euro is in the basement from the value. And you, the responsibility, political responsibility in this Republic, have taken over in this House, go exactly the same dangerous path. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Yes, we are confessing to austerity measures, because according to the expenditure that had to be made urgently in order to keep the economic engine alive, it is necessary that it is now saved. You could go along with the way you used to spend, even now when you are just saving. When you spend, you're all there, you're all in it, but when it comes to saving again, and then, if it might be necessary to get spending acting again, don't be involved, because then you're not there anymore, then say goodbye to maximize your voices. I don't understand it either for the following reason: There will be no federal elections in the coming years. So we could do a national shoulderhold here in the house and continue the crisis fight that we have taken together, and work together to consolidate our children and children. – That would be responsible policy, and I ask all of you to do so! I would also like to say one more thing: This is not the budget, in bad times as well as in good times, of a Sepp Pröll alone, but it is the budget of this federal government which has assumed responsibility, and it is also the budget of the head of this federal government, Chancellor Faymann. I ask all of you – especially you from the opposition – to: Go along with this path now too! It will be saved thanks to God on a very high level. In international comparison, don't make our Austria worse than it is! It is very, very good in international comparison. And above all: Quit – there are still two days of debate in front of us – this anxiety, this spread of hopelessness and let peace come back in this pre-Christmas season!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9351	Next speaker: Mr Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9373	Mr President. High house! Fear, unrest, hopelessness – the colleague is perfectly right, but it is not the opposition that is spreading here, but it is this government that has committed a constitutional breach that does not involve the opposition and which has failed to implement structural measures in the long term. – This is the thing we need to discuss here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can fix this to a few examples: 40 : 60 is the miracle formula. 40 percent more taxes, that's what you've done. 60 percent more savings, partly. With the poorest, with the families, with the commuters, with the students, there you have saved. The structural measures you have completely missed. And the whole thing on pump: 7.6 billion € deficit. This means that 11 percent of the budget expenditure is from the bank. 11 € from 100 €, which you spend, are ultimately only on pump. That is, you have to take your own nose from the government, you have to be open to more reforms, more movement and more parliamentarianism. Then we can also discuss objectively about the thousand or so applications, which include a great many reform measures and which are still dormant in the committees. This government ultimately punishes the middle class, the families, the students, the commuters, the science, the research, the development or even the caregivers. If you compare what is written here in numbers with what you have said in the Government Declaration, I will take the words of Klubobmann's head into the mouth: Shame! - You won't find anything again. They are talking about the expansion of family benefits, the expansion of research and innovation et cetera, and you are in principle doing just the opposite. The few offensive measures you have are basically just dizziness. A thermal renovation – well, that's what I'm leaving – is good, but the sum you use is far too low: 100 million €. An increase in the research premium from 8 percent to 10 percent is correct in the approaches, I must praise, however: Finally, the large companies benefit from this, and not the small, innovative companies that would really need it. The units get €80 million, but you're hiding that you've previously given up €95 million in the budget framework law, although you know that these have a financing need of over €1 billion in the next four years. Reforms ultimately fail in ideological barriers of the government parties. There is no discussion of study fees, as they are internationally usual, as we demand, there is no negotiation of registration fees, and the Minister of Science and the chancellor judge that one should do something against the attack of German students who are threatening us next year in the autumn semester, but one does not come to a green branch. Therefore, the preparation time for the universities themselves, as well as for the students, is also missing. In return, however, in Austria we have one of the highest rates of foreign students at the university. There are already 25 percent of students now enrolled from abroad. And I thought we were world champions. There is, however, another greater number, Mr Van der ÖVP, where we are not world champions, where we are “Universum Masters”, and I can mention them: There are, for example, scholarships received by colleagues from abroad. Around 39.16 percent of grants go to foreigners! This must be imagined in proportionality! I am in favour of Austrians first being able to study well here, and Austrians first receive scholarships – but not for example students from China with €646,000, from Hungary with €394,000, from the Czech Republic with €300 000, from Thailand with €220 000, from the Slovak Republic with €196 000, from Vietnam with €167,000, from Poland with €163,000. And so this goes on, so people from a whole list of countries are subsidized and we lack the money for the students at the universities. But there is also a lack of structural measures. FTI strategy, higher education plan, incentives for university third-party funding – still not discussed – has not been implemented. That is why this higher education policy – I am putting it to the point – is mediocre because the funds are missing, it is unconceivable because the concepts are missing, and it is futureless, because also the courage to reform is missing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The following is the end. On the other hand, if one also saves the poorest, reduces the amount of care, makes it difficult to access the care allowance levels 1 and 2, but vice versa for criminals who have a foothold, but in turn allows those who are unjustly inoccupied, then reduces the daily allowance or extends the period during which the notice of termination is not applicable to disabled persons to four years – instead of six months – or abolishes the NoVA exemption for the disabled, or delays the construction of accessibility for public buildings by 2019, then it is probably not appropriate to adopt a law in the same breath, preferring the disabled members of the National Council and the Federal Council here. It is objectively correct to discuss this matter, but the timing is completely wrong. There must be no privileges for parliamentarians if at the same time disabled and in need of care are removed in that country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9445	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9466	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It has often been said today that the budget is alternativesless. I don't think so. I think there are always alternatives, that's no question at all. What a budget needs, these are majority. But of course one could choose differently in certain areas. I would therefore like to comment on a number of points. The budget needs majority voting and there is a need for compromise here in the House on the amendments that have been tabled, which we have also tabled. I would like to make a few comments. On the one hand, I think it is essential that we have succeeded in getting into property taxation. This is borne by a willingness to compromise and has a majority in the house. There was also a willingness to compromise on the part of the EIA, which was difficult because Mr Vice-Chanceller Pröll mentioned a few weeks ago that the budget was not about social justice. We've been able to make a lot of things clear. Regarding criticism of the multi-child supplement – Mr Glavischnig is not here –: I do not think that the criticism is justified by my permission, because the multi-child supplement is a poverty trap. The multiple-child supplement is linked to an income limit and leads to the fact that women are not more active. In this respect, we know that the link between poverty and the number of children is increasing, but it is especially when only one parent is employed. The change in the multi-child supplement, I think, is not the problem. In fact, structurally, I see it as a problem in terms of family aid. We have had quite different proposals. I give you the right, Mr Musiol, to leave the entire family allowance as she is, and to abolish the child allowance, this proposal, in particular from the Chamber of Labour, I have considered a sensible proposal, namely: If you look at it, then the total family allowance is € 144 million; in contrast, the child allowance totals € 165 million, I think, and its abolition would meet families with a gross income of € 6 000, for example, with € 132 a year. – I thought this was very useful as an alternative. That is what we have proposed. We, my colleague, Bayr and I, have also proposed alternatives to the EZA funds until the end. Why this has not succeeded, you have to ask the ÖVP in the house. That is the crucial point. [[Abg. Steibl: Much has not been done either because the SPÖ has not gone along!]] But that there are alternatives to that, there is no doubt. For us, this remains on the agenda. As far as compromise and compromise are concerned, you may also know this from Upper Austria. There the Greens, together with the ÖVP, have just decided on a Burka ban. It is probably possible to talk about coalition issues as well. I don't suppose this happened out of conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9509	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Unfortunately, Mrs Rudas is not present, but I would like to confirm, of course, that we deserve the same thing. But she did not understand that it was a matter of old political privileges. Because I can put my hand in the fire for the Freedom Party: With us no one voted for the old system, but all are in the new system, and we no longer have pension privileges. [[Abg. Oils: Kabas!]] - That's just for clarification. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We heard one year ago, no stone stays on the other. And then Mr. Vice-Chancellor wakes up, and the sandbox dreams are broken. These sandbox dreams seem to have destroyed the lobbys and coalition partners. We are, of course, quite anxious to have a national shoulder closure, dear Mr Kapeller, but when is an invitation to finally implement these reforms which stand out? – I do not yet see an approach to administrative or structural reform – instead, I see only flaws and senseless conversations among the national leaders. Where are the tax reform and simplification that have always been promised us? – On the contrary, luggage taxes are being introduced and everything becomes even more complicated. Where is the school and education reform? – Only mutual blockades, as we hear from the media. And where is a health reform at the end of the day? Minister Stöger once indicated this, and what remains? – It was exterminated medially. The only thing that will remain of this "great" 2010 budget is the fact that it has begun a constitutional break. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second thing that will remain is that 80 percent of the savings have gone at the expense of the families, although we know how demographics will develop in the future. These measures are shortsighted, and I would even say that they are grossly negligent. If Mr Pröll says that this serves security and is necessary for the perspective of our families and children, then, I believe, he is awake again, and again a sandburg is broken. Unfortunately, we have only heard empty words so far, and I am so sorry that a reform of our budget has not even been started in the first place. I should just like to mention one example, which shows what waving legs our budget is on, namely the increase in the capital of the European Central Bank to €10.76 billion. That means it has to be increased by €5.8 billion. The reason we know is the fear of losses by buying dubious government bonds of €72 billion. Of course, they'll catch us sometime. The Oesterreichische National Bank will have to reshoot €100 million this year. This will not directly affect us now in the budget, it is clear to me, but the Austrian National Bank will be able to deliver less profits, and therefore it will be at the beginning before the budget has been decided at all, the budget cannot be respected again. Ladies and gentlemen, it may already be that our budget figures are somewhat better than those of other European countries. I do not want to measure myself with Ireland, Portugal, Spain or Italy, but I still believe that in this respect we may be the single-eyed among the blind.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9582	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9603	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have therefore been included in the list of speakers because last week, in the Committee on Budgets, especially in the area of transport, we had a rather interesting and, as I believe, good discussion, namely in the context of liberalisation, which is a fact in the field of rail transport – at least in the case of passenger transport, and in the case of freight transport. At the time, I also asked the Minister responsible in the debate whether it is possible to exclude fair competition for market participants and therefore equal opportunities cannot be guaranteed. She meant no, she can't follow me. – So the reverse is: It guarantees equal opportunities and fair competition. We now have in the budget accompanying legislation, Article 154, de facto the fixing of further pre-taxes for rail transport. These are considerable resources that will be promised over the next ten years. The 2009 Court of Auditors report pointed out that the award of public service services following the Performance orientation must be carried out on the one hand, but of course also in accordance with the principle of transparency on the other. At the same time, he pointed out that the award of routes to be replaced should be examined after competition. What does that mean? . We will ask the Federal Minister for Transport and in the next discussions we will also point out that it is necessary to ensure the conclusion of transparent and performance-oriented transport service contracts, so that there can be this competition and so that these fair access opportunities can come to this new market in the field of freight transport. We will also remind them and ask them to carry out regular evaluations of the public service contracts in order to see which route has changed and where there is additional competition, so that there can also be an early call for tender in order to give the market de facto the appropriate impetus. In the debate on this budget accompanying law, it should be noted here that this is at least a discussion that will certainly continue to follow us over the next few months and years.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9643	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9664	Ladies and gentlemen! I really do not understand this grievance of the government or of the members of the government. A little self-confidence would help you. But that's not my program to advise you there. There's only no reason to be whining: You have to attribute the bad report and the bad mood to yourselves. A year ago, those who have triggered a reformist attitude, who do not enter into any reform promises and then save them in the wrong place, need not be surprised that in this country the mood is bad and that this is also directed by the librarians and commentators. The fact that the opposition then has a light game with you is of course that we take advantage of this, is clear, but the sobriety is really wrong in the place. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The winery on voting marathon and red marathon is also missing in the square. I do not think anyone who breaks the Constitution needs to be surprised if the opposition uses the Rules of Procedure. And so it comes that the constitutional gangs have to sit today – but thank God only in Parliament at a voting marathon. Three proposals on which we will vote have already been tabled by my colleague; I can inform you six more. The first request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request: Amendment by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Kogler, Mr Brosz, Mr Steinhauser, Mr Co-workers The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the report of the Budgetary Committee (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: Article 29 is not applicable. What is the point of these applications? This is essentially the reduction of the year of the court. In the original draft budget accompanying law, the date of office should have been deleted. This would have been fatal because this would have made legal access much more difficult. There God has given thanks to the government's understanding after a Protestant slave has been rolled on. What remains is the reduction of the legal year from nine months to five months. This is fatal, not only because the question of how to organise the day of office in future, no, but because the length of the year of the court plays a very important and decisive role in the selection of future judges. Now, after five months, for the first time, who will eventually become a judge and judge, they will be taken over; later there will be a second selection stage. First, the new model will lead to the choice of too early, and second, that those who do not know whether they will be taken over will otherwise look for a job in law firms. Judges are God's thanks to God impermissible and impermissible, but all the more important is that we have a good look at the selection of staff. – At least this is not a good contribution and will certainly deteriorate the quality of the case law. The third request is as follows: Amendment by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Steinhauser, Mr Brosz, Mr Kogler, Mr Co-workers The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the report of the Budgetary Committee (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: Article 43 Z 11 is not applicable. This is a cynical measure that affects the victims of crimes. Austria is always so proud to have a leading role. If a trial is now closed, the victim of a crime will have the opportunity to make a request for continuation. This remains, but in the future, this request, if negatively decided, will be punished with a fee of €90. That means – let's summarize –: We have a victim of a crime. Most of the time, we're being stopped because we're failing in the evidence situation. That's not understandable for the victim. Then it makes a continuation request. And if this is decided negatively again, you will also be punished with a fee of 90 €. – That’s pure cynicism! I shall now make the fourth request: Amendment by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Steinhauser, Mr Kogler, Mr Brosz, Mr Van Miert The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026 dB) is amended as follows: Article 33 is not applicable. That too is cynical, and in this case too it is victims, but victims of misdemeanors. Whoever is unjustly imprisoned shall be circumcised in his claims for damages. The savings volume: € 800 000. This means that by €800 000 the Republic will pay less to the victims of justice in the future. The fifth request I make: Amendment by Mr Steinhauser, Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mr Brosz, Mr Kogler, Mr Andriessen The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026 dB) is amended as follows: Article 40 is not applicable. This is about the impunity of slightest negligent injuries of the body. This can be discussed in principle. A criminal debate can be held on this matter. conduct, as the sanctioning of criminal offences looks like, whether or not negligent offences should be used for criminal purposes – but not in the budget-accompanied law. We would have had a year to discuss these things, but not quickly in connection with the budget accompanying law, especially as the victims' claims for compensation are concerned. The last request I make, a classic, so to speak: Amendment by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Brosz, Mr Steinhauser, Mr Kogler, Mr Co-workers The National Council wants to decide: The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026 dB) is amended as follows: Article 23 is not applicable. This request is therefore a classic because the court fees should be increased once again. The Minister of Justice is insatiable, because she has increased court fees a year and a half ago, this time she will do it again. We request approval of our requests for the worst – how am I supposed to say? – to repair damage to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e9872	All six amendments tabled are under negotiation. The six applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10134	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10155	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The present budget, together with the present 156 accompanying laws, is a consolidation package resulting from the requirements of the Budget Framework Act from 2011 to 2014. The evidence of hardness caused by the savings measures in the context of budget consolidation has been taken very seriously. The convening summits show results. Improvements are primarily for families and students. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's not true!]] The changes in detail: A total of € 300 million will be made available in four years compared to the agreement in Loipersdorf. This means additional € 75 million per year. The reduction of the family allowance for all students is reduced by half a year to 1. ==References== Half of the students affected benefit from all other exceptions. Family support is paid longer for civil and present staff, graduates of higher education and studies with a long duration of study. Even after maternity protection and in people with disabilities, the reference period is extended by one year. 8,000 students benefit from this possible extension of family support by one year to an age of 25 years. 8,000 students are replaced for two years by family allowances if they receive study aid. The family allowance limit is increased from € 9 000 to € 10 000 per year. More Child Families get 240 € per year. The multi-child supplement is not removed, but reduced from €36.40 to €20 per month. The single-earner discount for couples who no longer care for children will be abolished in principle, but not for pensions below €155 gross per month. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is a compromise, it is anything but gratifying, certainly not a desired package, but better than expected.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10193	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10216	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mrs Schönpass, in your speech, Mr Ostermayer had to smile even now, because of the many "improvements" for the families you mentioned. [[Abg. Nice pass: 300 million, is that nothing?]] I do not see these improvements for the families, because this savings package provides savings of 1.4 billion and tax increases of 1.2 billion, and the biggest savings concern the families and the care money – this is the area that is not favoured anyway. The biggest pieces on the revenue side are the increase in the tax on mineral oil, i.e. a tax on a tax, and tobacco tax, as well as the introduction of the bank and ticket tax. But all of this always pays the final consumer. All this is turned on to the end consumer, that pays the wide mass. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] To increase the tax on mineral oils: The Pendlerpauschale – which my colleague Westenthaler has already mentioned today – will be slightly increased, but this change alone is not enough. We want a dependent kilometres of money, because half of the 1.8 million commuters in Austria do not get anything at all because they either earn too little, are part-time or drive to the workplace less than 11 times a month. These people then fall through everywhere, and that is actually reformed. That would be an approach to an amendment, Mrs Colleague. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because They referred to the family allowance: One has now gone through this, because one has seen that with the originally planned reduction in family allowances, many students from 24 years of age, who have been in the service or have been in civil service, those who have made a voluntary social service year, and so on. That is why one has set up the border by one year for these cases, but it is nevertheless a deterioration! At the time, you protested at the tuition fees, and now you're making it even worse for the families and the students – so what is this?- Oh, my God! The losers in this area are especially those people who do not always have that easy in life or for whom it is all the more difficult than for others, for example people with disabilities who are affected by it. To extend the time limit for the production of accessibility: Mrs Colleague, I am still hearing today that in 2005 your then disabled speaker Lapp criticised the fact that the deadline for this is too long by 2016, and now she is raised again by four years! [[Abg. Schönpass: Do you know what you abolished?]] That's crazy! [[Abg. Huber: That's incredible!]] For this extension of the time limit for the production of accessibility, I say to you: This is not a service for people with disabilities, but it also has something to do with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled! And who makes this accessibility? – The construction industry. And the construction industry has received 25 percent fewer public contracts last year, i.e. fewer calls for tenders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] One could now use the economic engine for the construction industry by shortening the deadline for implementing accessibility and not extending it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is also a huge deterioration for the disabled in terms of the protection of termination – four years of service instead of six months. It will be the case that all the beneficiaries of the disabled will now be terminated earlier, before they have completed the fourth year of service. For the reduction of the care allowance: The reduction of the care allowance is, as it were, technically impoverished. You must imagine: In the European Year of Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, access to care levels 1 and 2 is now dramatically hampered! The number of hours per week is increased from 50 to 60 for the care level 1 and from 75 to 85 hours per week. There are a lot of people out there, because most of the caregivers are in Stages 1 and 2. That's the insanity in this area! [[Abg. Riepl: Nothing changes for them! But for those who are inside, you have to say that!]] – For those who are not, but for the new, and for those who are re-rated. That's the problem, and that's gonna be more and more. Mr Riepl, you know that this is going to be more from year to year. However, ladies and gentlemen Riepl, people in need of care must also be able to trust that they will also receive care in the future. Where's your social conscience, please? Instead of saving those in need of care and implementing a much needed overall reform in the care sector, you are now worsening access in this area. Therefore, Mr Riepl, the proposed difficult access criteria to care levels 1 and 2 should be amended or replaced. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I appeal to your social conscience, Mr Riepl, and to your colleagues to agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10342	The amendment tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10406	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10427	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The reactions in the population to this savings budget or to the measures in the accompanying legislation are not only negative. Of course: Those who are affected by this don't see this with great joy, but there are also many who know that budget recovery is necessary that measures are necessary, and there are also some who ask whether it can be enough with it, whether it should not be even more intensive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] On the other hand, if you hear the statements of the opposition and the wishes that are expressed here, what you don't have to do, I feel in the 24th century. September 2008 and you think that you would have nothing better than to continue this day and what you did back then. [[Abg. Brosz: Where the ÖVP extended the hacker scheme!]] And that would be – you know – the direct way to the pleite. We do not want to, but we confess to this budget, which one or another of course would like better in another version, but we believe it is necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] Now to some points of this budget: EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free Of course: This bank levy brings money into the budget, but it does not have a proper control function. I believe that the financial transaction tax we all have been talking about in this House would be much more effective. If we take the financial market, if we want to get the speculations, if we want to get the euro in hand, we will have to go further in this direction across Europe. We know that there's no point in a single way, too. In any case, there will have to be movement in this direction. Or we take the foundation tax: The Foundation's tax also brings more money into the state fund. But I expressly welcome the proposal made by Foreign Minister Spindelegger that the Foundation tax should also be increased towards financing development cooperation, and I hope that something will be possible here in the next few days. As I am talking about development cooperation, I would like to talk briefly about the donations that have been decided here in Parliament some time ago. We now know that practically no more donations have come into the pots of the NGOs, and I would therefore like to say very clearly: If not a doubling of donations or at least an increase in donations can be achieved by half, then in this area the state actually pays the token only, and then it would have been much more reasonable that we would not have done so and would have given the money the state has to repay directly to the projects concerned and, for example, to development cooperation. So not everything we do really seems to me well thought out and sensible in the long run. I hope that will change. Another recognised comment on development cooperation and the Unemployment Insurance Act: There's a time frame. In other words, it will be possible in the future for those development workers who work at relatively low wages in developing countries to be able, when they return, to obtain unemployment support after their original income in Austria. I would like to expressly thank our clubman Karlheinz Kopf, whom I have included this wish in the negotiations, but also Mr Hundstorfer, who, in the end, had to implement it in his area, that it was successful. My wish would be that we can at last guarantee at least social conditions for those people who work in developing countries to a relatively low level of pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10486	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Königshofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! I do not want to see the Austrian budget isolated here, but, as I have already done, in the context and in the context of the European financial, banking and monetary crisis. It is always said that the EU would now become a transfer union. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true! The EU and its predecessors – EC, EEC and so on – have always been transfer unions, because billions of euros, D-Mark, Schilling and so on have flowed from the net payers to the net recipients each year. Now, ladies and gentlemen, a new quality comes into play: Now, beyond a transfer union, this European Union is to be made a union of liability. That is, the net payers are now expected to assume liability for the net recipients or weaker countries – for their debts and for their deficits. And this is done insofar as this Article 125 of the Lisbon Treaty, which is not yet valid for a year, is amended by two sentences and therefore relativized. It is also said in the ORF that this would be just an addition to the Lisbon Treaty, a small extension. In reality, however, ladies and gentlemen, this is an essential change in the quality of the Lisbon Treaty, which we cannot accept. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the event of such a change in the Treaty, there would have to be a referendum in Austria too. And Mr. Faymann, together with his former colleague Gusenbauer, wrote a letter to the “Kronen Zeitung” in which he promised that he would be willing to ask the people whether or not he agreed to do so in the event of an essential change in the contract. I remind the Federal Chancellor of his promise made at the time, and I remind him of the Austrian Constitution, Article 44, where a referendum is required in the event of fundamental constitutional changes. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, it can't be that with your signature Austria, the State of Austria, the Austrian people, the Austrian People's Power, you are manoeuvring into a liability of which we still have no idea how great it could be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I told you the last time: After Greece, Ireland was already in the sight of the speculators and now had to flee under this rescue shield. It is said to receive €85 billion from Ireland. Ireland pays 5 percent interest per year, which is € 4.25 billion – and saves 3 billion. As there is a lack of €1.25 billion per year, in five years the figure is 6.25 billion, which is too little. And then Ireland would still have to pay back 85 billion! There can be no growth in a shrinking economy! And the French Minister of Finance Lagarde has said that these 85 billion are enough for Ireland to keep this country over water for three years. – That’s not how it can be, ladies and gentlemen! And now I'm going to tell you about this liability framework: What would be the cover of this liability framework? – The coverage stock or the credit basis of this liability stock are essentially around 6 000 billion the savings of German and Austrian savers! And it would be seized if these liabilities were to be beaten. Mr Pröll cannot make himself here and say: We do not need to take money into our hands now, it is only liability! I would like to ask the bankers from the ÖVP side: What happens when a liability gets hit? Do you have to pay or don't you have to pay, Mr. Auer? You know it very well: There must be paid! And what is Austria paying for? If I let the comments of the ÖVP-Redner Revue happen when they spoke of saving and said: We need to save in the budget in order not to leave behind our children's and children's debts, which they then have to pay off!, I wonder: What happens to such liability? – If they get beating, then our children and children have to repay the debts of Irish, Greek, French, Italian. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Think about it! I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this in Austria and not to have a few signatures of this country in such responsibilities that are inseparable today. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I would like to end my speech with a Latin saying and a heart's desire: Quidquid agis prudenter agas et respice finem.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10626	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10647	Mr President. Mr Königshofer, you have mentioned a number of countries where debt can be hit. You've forgotten a federal country. – Carinthia you have forgotten to say so. There are also very large liabilities. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: That's why he's accepted! That's why we take it?! That's an argument!]] If all this gets beating, what your friends and friends of the BZÖ have done down there, well thank you, then we really have a problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to the budget: A year ago, some discussed the purely expenditure-side budgetary reorganisation. Some have dreamed of it coming to an end. A little later, the disillusionment came, and it was agreed in the government – which I think is useful – that expenditure and revenue measures should be put in place. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Kopf said today that it was legitimate to ask the question of justice. I agree. Of course, it is always legitimate to ask the question: Is the policy that is being made to see justice? He meant asking for a contribution here for speculators, which is a big contribution. That's where I disagree with him again. Of course, in this budget, we have also requested a contribution for speculators. But, whether this is a very big thing in the sense of justice, I doubt. I think a lot of things need to be improved here in the next few years. If all their taxes were to be paid as timely as the workers and pensioners in our country, then we would have much room for more social justice, I think. [[Abg. May. Stefan: They pay the service providers!]] [[Abg. Singer: Because they don't get it in their hands!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] What do I mean by that? – Tax and social fraud is an issue that has not yet been discussed today, which, I believe, also plays a role in the budget implementation. Although we have a social fraud law, we have a KIAB that works well, we have problems in law enforcement and in some cases, in which – not only in the construction industry – there is a need for systematic fraud prevention, because fraud is systematically applied. I would therefore like to point out briefly on this subject because I believe that we will not only talk about a budget, but of course also about the budget implementation. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, I hope that next year we will also have to work to ensure that the taxes, which are actually to come, actually come where they are used and where they are provided for by law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10762	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10816	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e10838	Mr President. I should like to make further amendments to the Green Group: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That would actually be all the requests I wanted to make. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Very “loving”!]] Press promotion: “Very funny” was a good hint. It was also very funny to see the Constitutional Breakery on the budget template. You should read the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and you will be able to see that what your ministers have done clearly contradicts the Constitution – even if you shake your head three times. An emergency regulation provided for in the budget can never legitimise a conscious and intentional breach of the constitution. So if you want to get excited and reflect on the delay of time: Your club members are certainly the right people to contact. For press promotion, I will discuss the budget in detail in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11049	The nine amendments which have just been tabled by Mr Brosz are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The nine applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11449	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11470	Mr President. Highly esteemed ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Of course, I would have liked to give my colleague from East Tyrol the lead, but I am glad that we have a really great, charming and also very intelligent representative of East Tyrol sitting here on the government bank with the new Secretary of State. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When I consider the accompanying laws and innovations presented by the Federal Chancellor, I have to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler]] This is, of course, painful for me as an entrepreneur and economic operator. The result is painful for the companies in Austria, but also for the workers. It should only be considered appropriate from a very special point of view, in the light of a policy which is committed to the development of a solidarity-based community. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is that?]] Unfortunately, the performance discussion in our country is often downgraded – and often by you too – to an envy discussion, and this envy then leads to heated ideological discussions, elevating some kind of requirement, but in the medium term this discussion then leads to a de-olidarization of our citizens and, subsequently, also to the aversion of our kind of politics. But then we also need not be surprised as politicians when, in principle, powerful and powerful citizens of our country look rather at what they themselves or what their neighbors can bring out of the system, instead of talking to Kennedy, to do something for the state. I would like to present the Austrian problem briefly in figures: The social ratio has now reached over 30 percent of GDP. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No stakeholders, no interest!]] 11 000 € per Austrian are spent in the social sector. 83 billion are redistributed annually. This is largely achieved through employers' and employees' contributions, so we pay for health, pensions, care, invalidity, families and so on. The retirement age in Austria is still around 4 years lower than that of the OECD average at the age of 58.5 years. Even in Sweden, the land of Olof Palmes, people work four years longer than with us. This means 4 billion € additional costs for our budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 2 million Austrians are tax-free and tax-free. I wonder, If the Federal Chancellor said yesterday that he wanted to make Austria even more just, how do you want to do that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] –You do not want to let any staff leave the administration. They don't want to save in the administration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] And I wonder, What else are we going to do here? – I think Austria is a just state, is a social state, and 1.9 million Austrians bear the burden. One of the major challenges facing our budget: I remember that for ten years we needed to finish the budget deficit from 68 percent to 58 percent, but in one year it went up to over 70 percent. I know that only a few, but the fact that we already pay over €8 billion – at least three times the budget of the federal state of Tyrol – is for me the most brutal form of redistribution and expropriation. This takes the money out of the pocket of Austrian taxpayers and puts it and pumps it into the devoured channels of the international capital markets. – As an economic politician, I see this as a disaster, because the money is missing in the field of education and in many other areas. And since the Federal Chancellor yesterday made a public stand against major study access schemes and study contributions, I have to say: This may be positive for so many parents and many of you, but what do you say, Federal Chancellor, in reality? . They actually say that you want to tax even more the 1.9 million Austrian taxpayers. With 44 percent, we are at the top of the European loads. [[Call to the FPÖ:The Secretary of State is your witness!]] We don't want this from the ÖVP! We do not want any more taxes, and I think we will also prevent the next taxunami coming to us. [[Abg. Krainer: Exactly! The wage tax and VAT are only a small part of it!]] So let us all stop, together, raising expectations that we cannot fulfil in this situation, Mr Krainer. Let's think about it! From these points of view, this budget package is acceptable to me. It is reasonable and equipped with a solid foundation. [[Abg. Krainer:... Sure enough! Statistics show it!]] You, with your tables! We remain politically capable of doing this budget. It's just the first step on a long trip, and I think we've got to deal with the big chunks in January, whether it suits you or not. [[Call the FPÖ:The farmers and the self-employed pay the least taxes!]] On this trip we have to look at our country Austria, to ensure that we remain social, but also that we remain competitive in the international context.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11609	The next item is the speech by Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11630	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to take a quick look at the budget, because if you look, you can see that there has been a major dispute between ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Unrest in the hall.]] - But please calm down now. I will now look at the budget very soberly. What's going on? – Under the line, € 7.6 billion will come out more debts. 7.6 billion € more debts that you bind the future generations around your neck! The responsibility for this is none other than the banking minister Pröll. Please, let's light it up! What's that? – This is a purely mass tax increase! Here would be the banking tax, the mineral tax, the VAT on mineral oil tax, the increase in the price of petrol by 4 cents, for diesel by 5 cents, and all this at a high price! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do nothing but heat up inflation! What happens if we have a higher inflation? – The loans rise, the interest increases. What happens when the interest goes up? – Well, then we pay €10 billion instead of interest significantly more. That, please, you just have to say: That's what you're talking about. There you are totally unconceivable! That's what I've got to say to Mr Hörl: You're really unconceivable! Then it goes on: Tobacco tax will be increased – well, you will be able to talk about it, people will do it. But then going here and increasing the basic book entry fees by 10 percent is something I have to say: You're punishing people who buy anything, and that's just an insanity! Again: Under the rule, nothing else comes out but massively more debt. For example, with the families we are massively saved. My countryman from Lienz is sitting there, who has nothing better to offer than to note with regard to childcare places, which one no longer needs to expand, but one would have no money to do so, there will be an evaluation. [[Call the ÖVP: Didn't tell them!]] [[Abg. New builder: She didn't say that either!]] – These are tricks, the whole budget is a single trick! Then, because of the new taxes, there is nothing more than an increase. – So this budget is basically nothing but a crazy economic brake! Have you ever thought about who will pay all of this?- Oh, my God! This will be paid by the families, the students, the pensioners, the caregivers, the disabled. You are punishing exactly those layers that most urgently need the money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And what's on the other side? – The rich, the so-called super-rich, are left out everywhere. The increase in mass taxes, the overcrowding of new taxes on fees, which the consumer has to pay again, is simply groundless. If you look at this, you see, it is not the rich who pay it, but it pays again only the middle class, only and only the middle class. And what do we learn from this budget? – It is completely without visions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] In the long run, it is totally unconceivable, it is inconceivable, it is a standstill instead of a progress. And be aware of one thing: Every standstill is a big step backwards! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Why do we do all this, have you ever asked? – Just so that Mr. Bank Minister Pröll can drive to Brussels and distribute our billions there?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Krainer:... what does that have to do with reality?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Is that necessary? So I think such a budget, just to help other states out of the patch, the people won't forgive you for that. Especially in the next election, citizens will know exactly how to vote, Mr Krainer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11729	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Budgetary changes, budgetary cuts are always unpleasant – no matter which clientele of the population class it concerns. But it is also unpleasant to make a budget that is about cuts for a government. It's just a budget of the feasible. It wishes each of us here something different, but at the end of the day it must come out something that is socially fairly divided, and I think the way in this direction, which fits. I would now like to address a few speeches from this morning's debate, especially those where Mr Strache said that the budget was nothing but the management of the misery. I don't want to leave that in the room. Then: The fact is, Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. The fact is that employment figures are increasing in Austria. And the fact is that – and that is what you can read in today's daily newspapers, where it is said that in the Christmas business trade is talking about a big plus that consumption is increasing – that people's confidence in this government is given. But you have to see that, too, and you can't defuse everything. [[Call to the FPÖ:A debt is..., he says, we buy it!]] Because Mr Westenthaler has said that €2.3 billion is simply sent to Brussels every year, because we are net-payers, I would like to say to Mr Westenthaler that, when we joined the EU, it was so that we have said that those countries that have a weaker economic performance are our economic market, we are expecting something, and we are all helping together to get up there so that we can also benefit from it, so that our businesses can do business and thus secure jobs. [[Call at the FPÖ: What about the liability?]] – Mr Commissioner, don’t be so blue-eyed, look not only in one direction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because it was said that the budget was a document of failure, I only tell you what was said by the experts in the budget hearing. Name: The budget is well defined with regard to the objective and length of the path, it is economically adjusted to the situation, growth and government expenditure are quite well below GDP growth and expenditure cuts. – Listen to me, colleague. That's what the experts from all the political groups said. The structural reforms were as follows: Austria is taking the path to the modern state of services, through the transfer of money into state-of-the-art services, to day schools, kindergartens et cetera. And to colleague Glavischnig: The experts, not Mrs Hagenhofer, said that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11807	The next item is Mrs Gartelgruber. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11830	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have already talked a lot about the budget today, and Christmas is at the door, and there is a lot of time for joy and celebration, but not for those people who are affected by this budget. First and foremost, these are the families, and also especially the many Austrians, who need the care. Among all the anti-socialist horrors that this government is responsible for, I would like to take one that is particularly bothering me, which is the fees for state administration. For a year and a half, the bag of people who are not exactly on the butter side of life is completely unfrozen: the caretaker. As early as the spring of this year, we made a request to the Committee on Justice, which was postponed by Mr Ikrath at the time. He said he'd take that into account in the budget – unfortunately that didn't work, that didn't happen! – Once again, it shows how the quality of the handbeat of the ÖVP is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I would like to give you once again the opportunity to fix this law which we introduced in the course of the Family Law Amendment Act last June, and to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you now have the opportunity to set a sign of humanity just before Christmas. And you have the opportunity to prove that the nurses don't care about you. And you have the opportunity to make up for a sinister injustice again. At least €116 costs the decision to approve legal proceedings Care-aids, at least €74 the decision on the confirmation of insurance accounts. Some of you may not think of it as a lot of money now, but I can assure you: For those concerned, this is very much money – money that I believe the state is taking out of the pockets in an unreasonable way. If SPÖ and ÖVP had wanted to do so, these unfair charges would have long since been abolished. But since I continue to hope that the two government parties also have a social conscience here, I ask you to submit my request. The Commission will be able to It is high time to abolish this obnoxious injustice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to make the following further request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the Government template 981 of the Supplements, the 2011 Budgetary Accompanying Act, among other things, the Court Fees Act provides for an increase in the basic book registration fee from 1 percent to 1.1 percent, and this, although the increase in the value of the Property would in any case increase the state revenue at all times. I would therefore ask you to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e11936	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12028	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12049	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! This budget with the budget accompanying legislation is painful in some areas, which is no question at all. In recent weeks many feedbacks have come from the population. In discussions, many reported on the consequences for them personally and for the organisations for which they operate. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are we faced with the task of budget restructuring? . We have decided in this House economic packages to get through the economic crisis well. We have achieved this goal to this day. I only remember unemployment: We can be proud to have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe with the Netherlands. However, we can also be proud that the measures taken by this House and the measures taken in the enterprises have allowed many people to be kept in the work process – thank God for everyone concerned, but also for the businesses that were able to respond quickly to the rising upswing. Ladies and gentlemen! We agreed at the time that the debt incurred for these measures must also be repaid. But we also agreed that cuts will also have painful effects. Now we face these consequences and discuss the consequences. In assessing these consequences, of course, you also have to look at the relationships. There is a need for savings packages across Europe, and we are much better placed in Austria. Our reduction rates are far behind those of most European countries. In Austria, positive salary accounts have been possible for 2011 as in hardly any other country. In many countries there were no increases, some also had to make cuts. Ladies and gentlemen! Changes in family support are, of course, very painful. However, it must also be said that the funding rate is still above that of 2008. And as “The Press ” writes: Austria despite cuts in the top European field. Ladies and gentlemen! As a family father, I have to be clear: Yes, cuts are painful; however, the debt to the future is much more painful, because they build up their future for our children, their chance to continue living in a country with a high social standard. [[Abg. Kickl: Liability!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The liability, for example!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12101	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12122	Ladies and gentlemen! The time-consuming circumstances force me to start with the amendments before I say something in terms of content. First of all, I would like to make the following request concerning the deterioration of the care allowance: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a request concerning the deterioration in disability. Amendment tabled by Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Kogler, Mag. Jarmer, Brosz, colleagues, Rule 105 The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: Article 105 shall not apply.’; I would also like to make a request concerning the deterioration in the AUVA accident insurance institution. Amendment tabled by Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Mr Kogler, Mr Oellinger, Mr Brosz, Mr Colleagues, Rule 112 The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: Article 112 shall not apply.’; I also propose a change and deterioration in health. Amendment tabled by Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek, Mag. Mr Kogler, Mr Oellinger, Mr Brosz, Mr Colleagues, Rule 114 The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: Article 114 shall not apply.’; I also inform you of the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, Ollinger, Brosz, Members of Parliament on Article 115 The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Government template concerning the 2011 Budgetary Support Act, as amended by the Budgetary Committee report (1026, e.g.) is amended as follows: 1. Articles 115 Z 39, 48 and 52 are deleted. 2. In Article 115 Z 74, paragraph 658 is replaced by the following: 2 Z 1 the words ‘254 para. 2, 271 para. 2, 279 para. 2’.’ This is a deterioration in pension rights, which I will address very briefly. First of all, however, on the proposal that the liberals have presented today, which they propose a change in political pensions. I would very much agree, but sometimes well meant the opposite of good. Unfortunately, this is such a request. I have to tell you very soberly and without polemics: The request would mean that all those who are now in the old system for more than 20 or 30 years and who have their full claims will not have to pay for their pensions from now on. All contributions they paid would be taken out of the property and transferred to a pension fund. This is actually an advantage I do not want to afford them. Those in the old pension system... listen to me! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They obviously don't understand what it's all about. Listen to me! – Those who are inside the old pension system should not be saved from contributions. [[Abg. Themessl:... don't understand! That's a joke!]] They are intended to pay contributions, but their benefits are to be shortened. This is a significant difference! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Their benefits, their pensions, which are partly at an insanity level – no question! – are to be shortened through pension contributions. That's how it works, so you should do it! That is what we have already proposed in the past. But believe me: The contribution you have proposed would mean a huge burden on the Federal Budget from next year and would certainly not be a punishment for those, but a small advantage, which they should not be able to make. But now to the points I'm interested in. Point one: The amendments refer to a budget-accompanied law, which amends some 160 legislation, which does not change laws, without these amendments having ever been sufficiently debated. Mr Gaßner knows that we have sometimes criticized this together in recent years. Only: This mechanism, which has been used to amend 160 laws with very brief questions in the Committee on Budgets, is really a parliamentary disaster! Let us be glad that Mr Kogler has also saved the honour of parliamentary speech by speaking for twelve hours. Last point: As you change this, you can see this from a provision that is not obvious to anyone. So far, there was a possibility in the ASVG for women who had to meet the following conditions in order to be allowed to retire at the age of 55: They had to be four children and widows, then they could retire at the age of 55. This is a provision that can be discussed, of course, and it should also be changed. Only: How do you change them? – You miss this provision! There is already a concrete example of a woman who has applied for this pension. She can't retire now at 55, but only at 60 years of age. This woman has worked for almost 40 years – almost 40 years! –, four children raised, and she wants to retire at 55 as she has been explained. But now there is a change in the law that has not even been discussed in the first place, namely for this small group of 20, 30 women a year, you say, or the pension insurance at the end of the year, I am sorry that the provisions that have been applied two months ago do not apply to you any more – five years later! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12219	The amendments which have just been tabled, five in number, are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. These five applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12462	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin, like Mr Oellinger, with an amendment in order not to be delayed in time. [[Quoted print version removed]] These are essentially editorial changes with a few changes in content. A change in content concerns the distribution of excise duty on beverages. I noticed this immediately because it is about the distribution to the communities for the year 2011. There is also an interesting change in the content of the Agricultural Control Act: The aim of the law and the exercise of tasks. I hope that it will be enough for this law to be in place here, if it is then decided. Mr Oellinger, you're right: These budget-accompanied laws are in themselves, as one is always trying to hide and accommodate a lot of things here. This has been criticized together; today you alone, without us, criticize it with comments on it. But I've been surprised by one thing: These were rather sharp attacks, especially by the Greens, on the representatives of the Government parties, just as if we were just more hammermen here, just standing up because the government demands it, or stay sitting because it demands it from us. It's not like that! I can speak for the SPÖ: We talked about this in a lot of discussions and for hours. It is just that we are in a coalition, and now there is a budget that can be criticized. But it is quite a budget that guarantees stability in our Republic in the future. I would like to ask myself if you are talking about parliamentarianism and then bring in requests without numbers, which then lead us to a running exercise by having to vote seven, eight hours or more, in the name of the name: Is this the parliamentaryism that the Greens really want? Is Parliamentaryism? [[Abg. Oellinger: That's part of it!]] I don't think this is very parliamentary what you're doing here. But, well, the FPÖ has already learned. You've also held up a transparency to start actionism today. I have one last comment to make to my colleagues Fürntrath-Moretti. She is, I believe, not inside now, but she has today claimed that the reason of all evil was actually the Federal Chancellor Kreisky. Among them, debt has begun, precisely with the statement that unemployed people are bothering him more than a few million more budget deficits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Abg. Hörl: That's what he said!]] My dear colleague! Ladies and gentlemen, you believe this too! It was precisely at that time that it began to go up with Austria! At that time, high schools were established in every district – to name just one example. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] At that time, the children paid nothing more for the school books and had a free ride. I am glad that there was this time back then!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e12570	The next item is the speech by Mr Petzner. In advance, I would like to say that the request of Mr Gaßner and his group, which has just been presented, is sufficiently supported in the broad guidelines and in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure whether its scope has already been distributed to Members. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13059	Mr Petzner has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13080	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the presentation of an amendment tabled by Members Bucher, Petzner, colleagues and others to the 2011 Budgetary Accompaniment Act and I note that this is a number of amendments. In total, it's exactly a hundred times the number. I assume that the document will be distributed in the hall in accordance with the rules of business, so I will explain the main points of the amendment and assume that it has been properly introduced. I start with the general administration sector, where the BZÖ rejects the increase in the field of party law as well as the increase in the promotion of publicity in savings periods. In the field of general administration, we also reject the Community's rescheduling and the levying of additional costs in statistics. We do not agree with the proposed amendments to the budget accompanying law as regards service law. Ladies and gentlemen, the next area is justice. We are the Party of Citizens' Rights and therefore reject the austerity measures and the burdens there on the right-seekers, on the people who are seeking help from the Court of Justice. As an example, I only mention the increase in court fees. We also reject the attacks on the rule of law, such as the decriminalisation of negligent injuries of the body or the planned reduction of the legal year. Next area: The large area of finance, in which there is a number of burdens on taxpayers, such as increasing the tax on mineral oil, we demand in a change the withdrawal of this increase, as well as additional burdens to be created. As an example, the flight charge we have rejected is mentioned here. As a family party, we reject the reduction in family allowances, especially for students, as a breach of the principle of trust. In the area of work and social affairs, there is the problem that the admission threshold for the provision of care benefits should be increased. We reject this in a change as well as deterioration in the protection of termination, the removal of the reimbursement of travel costs and the NoVA fee for vehicles for people with disabilities and the extension of the time limit for the implementation of the accessibility of public buildings. On the environment, water management and agriculture: The extension of the period of recovery for old loads should be rejected as a shift in the loads to the future. Environmental promotions will also be completely folded from 2013 onwards. This is not what we agree with, nor is the administrative increase in agricultural control or wine control already mentioned by Mr Stadler today, as has our agricultural spokesman Huber. Very briefly on health: Increased drug costs – even here we demand withdrawal in a change and reject this as a burden for patients and the needy. Finally, and thus the amendment is sufficiently explained in its key points, I am coming to the area of transport, where it is burdened by increases in charges in the area of road tunnels which we reject, as well as by controls that do not agree with us, for commensurate with public transport. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the amendment tabled by the BZÖ – more than 100 amendments that we tabled with this proposal, which would also contradict Mr Cap's statement that neither the BZÖ nor the opposition would have any constructive proposals, no solutions to the budget accompanying law. With these 100 amendments, we prove that, as an economic party, as a party to civil rights, as a bourgeois force of the future, we are very likely to propose and prepare solutions for Austria as a liberal legal force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13160	The comprehensive amendment which has just been tabled has been explained in its core points, sufficiently supported, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure have already been distributed to the Members in the Chamber and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13625	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13646	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening to this debate for about four and a half hours now. If I hear the speeches of the opposition, I think they speak of another country, but at least not of Europe. [[Abg. New builder: We are talking about this government – and not any other country!]] The fact is that Austria is a country with one of the highest purchasing power parities within the European Union. The fact is that we have one of the best employment rates in this country. And the fact is that here in Austria we have the best values in Europe and probably even in the world from the number of unemployed, especially the number of young unemployed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank God we came out very quickly and well from this most difficult post-war crisis. We know that a veritable world economic crisis hit us in autumn 2008, which of course also hit Austria. At that time, the government, especially our Finance Minister Josef Pröll, took the right measures. We have put in place the right measures to deal with the crisis with the economic packages, the liability framework for banks and bank aid packages. That all this costs money is not a question. I was also glad that there was also the responsibility of the opposition parties at that time, because just when it came to the bank package, they decided to do so. Now it is about restoring consolidation. We start in 2011 with the 2011 budget with this consolidation. It is a major consolidation which does not reach the level of savings in the event of an event, as in other European countries. While we have to start the savings measures by about 1.4 per cent on the European average, we have the best of 0.5 per cent. Of course, further measures must be taken. I already agree that structural reforms, administrative reforms are necessary in order to ensure the competitiveness of Austria. It is so in many areas that we have reached absolute limits. We have reached the limits of the tax rate and the social rate, with a tax rate of 44 percent, a social rate of 31 percent and social and transfer benefits of approximately € 83 to 84 billion. As Mr Krainer always uses schematic representations, I have taken one with me today. I can show you these, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker shall hold up a document on which a graphic is shown.]] Austria has about 8.2 million inhabitants – 3.9 million persons in employment, 4.3 million people who are not in employment. Of these, about 1.9 million people in Austria are so-called net transfer payments. 1.9 million people pay these transfers, ladies and gentlemen! That should also be said! Whoever is still talking about justice, distribution justice, he should be aware in his conscience that 1.9 million people are providing these benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] It is really high time that we should not overlook these 1.9 million people, these net payers in Austria. We are nevertheless on a very good path in Austria, because we have excellent people and service providers who provide the best services, have excellent employees, excellently trained employees who do best in international comparison. That is why we are doing very well in terms of employment, in terms of export quotas. I also appeal once again to the opposition parties not to act with parliamentary activism, as the Greens do. One should really use time better for constructive and objective cooperation. There are many issues to be worked out, including two-thirds of them. So we should really use time better instead of giving a terrible picture outside with hours of quassel events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13702	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. Speech time: 4 minutes. I would remind you that the Group still has 6 minutes of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13723	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! In short, Mr Steindl said: Too much substance was not present in this speech. The applause was behaved; Your own group should not believe in your comments. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to write a few words to Mr Gaßner about the era Kreisky. You know very well that at this time the nationalists also argued. This is not exactly a fame for this time, and in the end Kreisky also had the Ztenendorf nuclear power plant built without asking the population. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the following point: Mrs Hagenhofer said that Cohesion of the European countries would be so important. Mrs Hagenhofer, there has already been this statement: “Learn story!” I can only recommend: Learn Economy! Learn economy and business! No Austrian company is prevented or can be prevented from selling products and services to other countries. We know very well that the euro is a very different issue. In these times, there are really major problems with the euro, more precisely with the financial and economic weak economies. In the so-called hard-currency countries, it must be possible to make some kind of consideration, perhaps to create two monetary zones. Euro billions of euros will be put into these poor economies in the financial and economic sphere. Finally, this is also a bank rescue. On the other hand, the Austrian population is only turned on the screws, and fundamental reforms are completely absent. This is indeed an extremely weak performance of this government. It is not only the FPÖ, but also the Austrian population that presents itself. More than €300 million of forward-looking areas, such as families, service providers, trainees, etc., are simply torn away, I almost want to say, hand-picked. That's just not the way we're going. If one also calculates the burden on the countries and also on the communities – I can speak for Lower Austria, where an incredible wave of loads also breaks into the communities about the population – then this is in total a load package that really hurts more than it does. Some may not be able to imagine this, but it is already a very provocative sum that goes down to the families in the congregations today. Finally, I would like to let you know a few quotes from the press. For example, what has Mr Voves said about this budget? In particular, I ask the Socialists to listen carefully. Voves said: “You can’t decide on burdens, but you can’t refuse reforms.” And: “For that people have no understanding.” And Voves continues: “If SPÖ and ÖVP continue this way, they are on the best way to make the FPÖ the strongest party.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Other quote: “If there are still vanity and power-thinkings of individual groups in the foreground, then politics loses its last credibility.” The head of the Chamber of Commerce in Vienna, Brigitte Jank, believes that it is hard to criticise that the draft budget is not accompanied by any reforms and that the well-being that has been drawn up is suffocated into shady structures. – I also ask the two government parties to “inhale”. I would also like to remind you once again of the decision of the Vorarlberger Landtag, which has decided that the atrocities in the existing budget must be reversed. In the media field, the “Kurier” has spoken of the insanity of administration, of the power interests of the princes of the country as a danger to the future. The “Kurier” is the Raiffeisen medium bad. The “Small Newspaper” writes, Austria is currently a country without a compass. The government is on the abyss. At the head of the Republic is waving emptiness wide. Neither chancellors nor vice chancellors give the impression that they have a spiritual interest in the relevant future issues of this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we can only appeal to you again: Try to make the budget different! Well, that's not how it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13808	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13829	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me ask you a question about the opposition. If such a variety of amendments are tabled, I would ask you to describe the cost consequences of the individual amendments and how they should be covered, because we also need to know this before we vote if we want to make such changes so short-term and take parliamentarianism seriously. The government has also presented a total budget, which is to be said quite honestly. I am particularly interested in the corresponding relationship in the budget, because I believe that we are discussing about 3 per cent of the total budget. 97 percent of the budget will obviously be carried by everyone if I take a gross stand against what you have to do with amendments. That too is an important and right signal for the government. I would like, if I am in a coalition and, as a Member of Parliament, to be deeply involved in the negotiations in advance, to achieve a compromise, and then, finally, to bring together all the parliamentarians of the government groups, in any event, not to be accused of being the only implementing body of the government. This is not worthy of parliamentarianism either. I think it is also useful to work in a coalition, because otherwise we would have the American system, in which we have to deal with anything for all the consent of any Member. That wouldn't be a target. This might be the case with the FPÖ, which, as explained, always wants to discuss individual particular interests, but that's not how it can be. [[Abg. Grosz: What did you do in Fohnsdorf?]] In Fohnsdorf, honourable Member, the municipal council has been dissolved, as you know. Today, however, it is not about the Styria, which, as you know, has caused a lot of reform impulses. [[Abg. Grosz: You've been baffled by Fohnsdorf!]] I am therefore also telling you why I am personally in favour of this budget. I chose two themes for my first speech. One is that those who are involved in the crisis should also make a contribution. With the bank tax, with the group tax, with the foundation tax new, especially with the changes in group taxation, important steps have been taken in this direction. This also applies to administrative reform. I would just like to take one example out of the department of defence: It has now been established, in partnership with the Interior and the Financial Resource, that employees who could be freed there through structural savings in the administration will now be used for the fight against fraud or for back office work. By using these employees in the field of fraud control, we can to a large extent even achieve a net yield. We in Styria also have a reform partnership, as here at the federal level. We are going, I believe, the right steps to the community structural reform. [[Abg. Grosz: He speaks of community reform and lets the municipality of Fohnsdorf go into the air!]] Take this as an example, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Grosz: Mister Fohnsdorf!]] We have adhered to everything we have presented. They don't stick to so many things. Finally, I would like to say: We can all be happy if the salaries of the Members of Parliament, the members of the government in Austria, are spent and reinvested and not speculated somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13922	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. I would point out that the remainder of the Group's speaking time is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13943	Mr President. High house! Then I can start the request immediately. I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a new contribution to show that policy is also involved in rehabilitating the state budget, and not only in carrying out its budgetary policy on the back of the poorest. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e13991	I suggest that the microphone is turned slightly louder and that the pult is raised a little higher. - Now for half a minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14006	Thank you, Mr President. Very generous! I can still bring in the area of administrative reform and state reform. If the statement from the ÖVP comes from their clubman that this budget is alternativesless, then you can only shake your head more. I ask you: Where has the state and administrative reform promised by you remained? If you still refuse it in the state we have in the Republic, I have to say: With this government we are light years away from a state and administrative reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14041	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14124	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! I should like to follow the demands of my predecessor, who has called for structural reforms, state reforms. Of course, there are these major areas which are not so easy to solve. It is important to pay attention to different things – for example, federalism and the various interests of the parties represented here in this House. Mr. Windholz! Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate over the last few weeks, it has been gladly overlooked that the budget accompanying law is being negotiated and voted here and today, and in this budget accompanying law a large number of smaller and larger structural reforms are included, because it was the task of the various departments, the Federal Ministries, in their area, to comply with the framework we have decided with the Financial Framework Act in spring. This means also for every department, some reforms, some changes to achieve savings and, of course, to have more revenue there and there. This is the content of this budget accompanying law. That is, all those who have called for or criticized structural reforms here, that there is no one, I can do the difficult and laborious way – no question! – recommend only: Read the budget accompanying law! You will find many measures that will also allow for precisely these savings, this efficiency increase. I should just like to say a few examples from the area of justice. One area that has been highly criticised is that the so-called court holidays, the time of negotiation, are restricted – that on the one hand, one shortens them and on the other hand limits them to those deadlines that are just causing appeals or that result in appeals. I think this is right and good, because it eliminates the phenomenon that there is a relative standstill in summer for one and a half months. At this time, many procedures could not be continued, because one had to wait for a deadline, for example for an expert order. This will no longer be necessary in the future. It will also be possible to use the infrastructure of the courts more efficiently. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, even in the discussion of the last few weeks, it has succeeded in finding solutions which meet the professional groups and the parties concerned – on the one hand, as I said, the time limits for appeal are not included, and on the other hand, there has been an additional delay. That is, if a party representative is on vacation, there is the possibility or even mandatory provision in the law to postpone. Something that was still criticised, which we have now agreed on – Mr Jarolim and my ability, together with the judicial body – is that we continue to negotiate establishing a holiday database for party representatives. This would be very welcome to the smaller firms. With the technical possibilities, this is no longer a problem today. In this database, a possible holiday, a leisure time, could be reported for some time a year, so that no negotiation could be held at that time. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Bravo!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So there are also some other areas where there have been structural reforms in the direction of savings and efficiency improvements. I therefore believe that, with good conscience, we can also decide on this budget accompanying law here and today. The debate on various amendments was held. However, I also think it is strange that the opposition is criticising it on the one hand when a conflict of law is discussed weeks before, but then here in the last minute, hundreds of amendments are tabled, and I would like you to decide now. It's not easier either. We have given enough time to discuss, and you now require us to decide here shortly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14210	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14233	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! An essential point for the rule of law is that access to justice is as simple as possible for citizens and there is confidence in justice. Unfortunately, this budget-accompanied law takes measures that make it difficult to access the law. One of these provisions is that the court fee for property registrations, inclusions in the basic book will be increased. This is done without any objective reason. This is not about adjusting a fee because inflation has increased or similar. This fee is a hundred rate fee, i.e. it increases with the value of the properties, so anyway increases. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that there is this increase. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has responded that the Bar Association, the Notarial Chamber, and also the Liberal Group have requested transitional arrangements. In my opinion, however, these are insufficient. It is now pointed out that self-calculation before the 1st century. ==References== But it is still not regulated by what happens to contracts before the 31st century. It was completed on 1 December 2010, but has not yet been submitted to the basic book. It may be that it takes months for such a thing to be presented. It is not in the hand of the trustee to do this. It waits for documents, cannot present this contract, and then carries the risk, but also as a trustee has the obligation to submit it to the ground book and then bears the responsibility to pay the fee. One could easily change this by putting it on the date of conclusion of the contract. If the conclusion of the contract is up to and including 31. In December 2012, the old rules could still be applied. That would also have to do with legal certainty. This would also have to do with the fact that the people, but also the contractors at the conclusion of the contract, know what they are going to do, because that is part of the contract agreement. I therefore ask you to reconsider. It is a measure that does not cost significant money, but simply and simply leads to one having security. I would ask you to take this into account and make another amendment here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14270	The next speaker was Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. I say that the remainder of your group's speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14292	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before the voting marathon a few comments. “Unsocial”, “Pension Robbery”, “Skandal”, “Poverty Certificate”, “Education Clau” – all of this was heard from the opposition today. In reality, ladies and gentlemen, this is a balanced budget and, under the circumstances, a socially acceptable one. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. New builder.]] Do not pretend that 2008, 2009 and this year have passed without any trace to us: We have experienced a world economic crisis that has been unique since the 1930s. The economy has been exploited as never before. Austria has come better through this crisis than many other states – so far, one has to say, because we are not yet. And that's where the question comes up: Why is that so? There are some reasons for this. First of all, those points would be mentioned. On 1 September 2008 the tax reform was adopted as the so-called “measures against inflation” but also the tax reform with 1. January 2009 has entered into force and greatly relieved people. This has ensured purchasing power, kept domestic demand high and ensured employment. During the crisis, the government and Parliament, with meaningful economic packages, have kept unemployment low with short work. At the time, it was clear to everyone that those jobs that are lost through the crisis will only be difficult to recover. It was therefore necessary to keep employment high. These measures have torn holes into the budget, no doubt. Now it's about consolidating. But we are better there than many, even most countries in the world. There is also a view over the fence: What's going on in the other countries? Germany, so often as a model for Austria, needs consolidation of the 17 percent of gross domestic product. United Kingdom: Increase VAT by 2.5 percent, reduction in social assistance by 7.8 billion. In Italy, the salaries of public servants are frozen for three years. Portugal: Increase in VAT by 3 percent. Not to mention Greece and Ireland. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, not all of the measures in the Budgetary Support Act are such that one could break into a dream of joy, but the measures are a serious and reasonable compromise, balanced between expenditure and revenue consolidation. Of course, not everything waiting for us has already been done. There is still a state and task reform, there is still a sustainable funding of care, education and universities to ensure. And in order to ensure this funding, we will also have to talk about tax justice in the future. This, of course, is also about property tax, inheritance tax, gift tax and the like, and it is also about the relief of the labour factor and tax reductions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14346	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Plessl spoke for the time being. Your group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14367	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the most difficult financial situation for decades, the internal and security sectors continue to be the top priority for this government. This is also seen in the budget, because in this area there is no need to complain. This is a very important access. It is very important to continue this turnaround. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You only remember what happened from 2000 to 2006. If I look at the opposition here, especially FPÖ and BZÖ, I have to remember that you contributed a lot back then. I would just like to remind you: all the savings, the destruction of structures, the cuts. In these six years, it has become fewer than 3,000 police officers. The criminal service was reduces – exactly the area we need, where we need more qualified people, who can handle these crimes efficiently. These negative effects are still present and we still have to fight with them in this area. A problem that has also been solved is, for example, the asylum court. Some parties have failed to meet this need, and we have also helped in this area. This also applies to the Foreign Law and so on. In the area of police, several posts are foreseen in the Staff Plan in 2011, taking into account the needs and concerns of Austrians as far as possible. I also welcome the possibility for postal workers to change, but also for national defence officials, because this is an important step in ensuring rapid support. I would also like to thank colleagues from the Federal Army for their assistance. Even if the use is repeatedly criticized, it is very important. The members of the Federal Army have brought in a lot of work and have given substantial support to the police in their work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, there are also certain cuts or shifts within the resort. For example, there would be a reduction in the foreign operations of the air police, as well as the projects of European Refugee Fund and European Integration Fund. Especially painful is the reduction in civil service, because civil servants in particular do excellent work for the benefit of society, especially those people who can no longer extend to nine months. This applies to the institutions such as the Red Cross and the workers'-Samariter-Bund. Unfortunately, there has been a reduction here. We will support this because we are in a coalition and have had to compromise. But with these measures, the communities are unfortunately once again being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14440	No one is reporting on this. I am interrupting the sitting so that the distribution of Mr Gaßner's request can be concluded. The sitting was suspended for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14475	I take up the interrupted session again and assume that everyone has now received a copy of the amendment. Is this acceptance correct? - I don't see any objection. Then it is. I am therefore now closing the debate. [[Abg. Scheibner: We still have none!]] Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - It's been distributed. [[Abg. Scheibner: The request was not distributed to us!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I would like to interrupt the session once again to distribute the remaining copies.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14548	I'll start the interrupted session again. It has been verified: All have been given a copy. Since large short-term amendments or supplementary amendments have been tabled, as well as requests for a separate vote, as well as requests for a vote by name, and a short break in the sitting is not sufficient to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to the vote for a moment until the end of this sitting. We are continuing to complete the agenda. [[15:28:02]] 3rd. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14591	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. In the light of an agreement at the Presidential Conference as a result of a change in the strength ratio of the clubs, the number of members of the main committee should be fixed by 26. This is set in accordance with § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure a decision shall be taken by the National Council. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the proposal to set the number of members of the main committee with 26 in order to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 members of the Rules of Procedure on the SPÖ Club, eight members, eight members on the ÖVP Club, five members on the FPÖ Club, three members on the Green Club, and two members on the BZÖ Club. It is therefore due to the electoral lists according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure: from the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Renate Csörgits, Marianne Hagenhofer, Anton Heinzl, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag. Christine Muttonen, Stefan Prehauser, Mag. Barbara Prammer; from the ÖVP-Klub: Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Karl Donabauer, Karlheinz Kopf, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Fritz Neugebauer, Dr. Ursula Plassnik, Dorothea Schittenhelm, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel; from the FPÖ Club: Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Johannes Hübner, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Heinz-Christian Strache; from the Green Club: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen; von BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher, Mag. Ewald Stadler. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. [[15:30:09]] 4. Point Re-election of the Standing Joint Committee within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14739	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. The new election must be made due to a change in the strength ratio of the clubs notified to the President. The number of members to be sent by the National Council or replacement members shall be 13. In accordance with the principles of the proportional election, the SPÖ four, the ÖVP four, the FPÖ three members and replacement members, the Greens and the BZÖ each one member and one replacement member each. The proposals are available to me as Members. from the SPÖ Club: Elmar Mayer, Erwin Preiner, Walter Schopf, Peter Duster, from the ÖVP-Klub: Jakob Auer, Mag. Bernd Schönegger, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummful, Gabriele Tamandl, from the FPÖ Club: KomR Alois Grastaur, Bernhard Themessl, Bernhard Vock, from the Green Club: May. Werner Kogler, from BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher, Furthermore, as replacement members from the SPÖ Club: May. Josef Auer, Wilhelm Haberzettl, Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Stefan Prehauser, from the ÖVP-Klub: Wolfgang Großruck, Ing. Norbert Kapeller, Ing. Hermann Schultes, Konrad Steindl, from the FPÖ Club: Maximilian Linder, Anneliese Kitzmüller, Leopold Mayerhofer, from the Green Club: Dr. Ruperta Lichtenecker, from BZÖ-Klub: May. Ewald Stadler ................................................................................................................. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election of these Members to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. That's where the choice has been made. Since we still need additional time to prepare for the vote croquis, as mentioned earlier, we are starting the extensive vote on agenda items 1 and 2 with a pause, and I am interrupting the sitting at 5 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14922	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and tell you the following: The Parliamentary Directorate is still working on the Croquis. In concrete terms, the amendments tabled by the BZÖ are about a quarter. I would therefore like to make the following proposal: You, the clubs, will receive the first part of the Croquis in about a quarter of an hour, so that we can resume the sitting at around 5.30 p.m. and start voting. You will then gradually receive the further parts of the completed Croquis so that we can prevent unnecessary delay of time. [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] [[Call at BZÖ: It's getting much better!]] [[Further calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The respective parts of the Croquis are completed in themselves. Only parts of the Croquis that are closed in themselves can be transmitted to you. If you do not agree, we will have to interrupt the session for about two hours. [[Unrest in the hall.]] I interrupt the meeting and seek the clubmen to come to me. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e14990	I take up the interrupted session again and tell you that after a brief discussion with the club chairmen, or two alternates have agreed that we are going exactly as I have just proposed, namely that in about 10 minutes the first part of the Croquis will be transmitted to the groups and that there will be a quarter of an hour so that the groups can look at the Croquis. At 5.30 p.m., I will start the interrupted sitting again and we will start the voting process. You will gradually receive the further parts of the Croquis, always with sufficient time to look at it. If there are more time for the political groups to be involved, there is still the possibility of interrupting the meeting during the voting process or making the interruption a little longer in the course of the numeration of a natural vote. I interrupt the sitting and I expect the meeting to be resumed at around 5.30 p.m. at about 5.30 p.m., after the fact that the groups had the first part of the Croquis for a quarter of an hour. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15039	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[18:01:20]] Vote on agenda items 1 and 2
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15067	We shall proceed to the vote on Agenda items 1 and 2, which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's requests. First, we shall vote on the draft budget accompanying law 2011 in 1026 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments and requests for separate and named votes are available: Amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mrs Ewing and others; several amendments tabled by Mr Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a request for a nameable vote on it; an additional amendment tabled by Mrs Bucher, ladies and gentlemen; two requests for a separate vote by Mrs Bucher, colleagues; a request for a separate vote by Mr Fichtenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a vote on it. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals mentioned and the demand for separate or named votes, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Following the third reading in the order of submission, I shall have to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to the draft budget accompanying the 2011 Act, taking into account the present request for a name vote. First of all, we are voting on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, fellow Members, which has amendments to the introductions contained in Articles 1, 2 and 3. Whoever stands up for it, I seek for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on Article 3(1), paragraph 9, paragraph 9. 4 and 2 § 9 para. 4 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 4, requested by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. [[Congratulations and calls at SPÖ and ÖVP – towards the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek –:Look! Good morning.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues on the deletion of Rule 5. In addition, there has been too much call for a separate vote. In view of the fact that the request for the name of 20 Members has been put to the vote, the name of the vote has to be taken on the request for the deletion of Rule 5. That's why I'm doing this. I will now explain the procedure once this evening, otherwise we will proceed analogously in all subsequent national votes. The ballots to be used are in the shops of the Members'poules. They bear the name of the Members and the name “Yes” – these are the grey polls – or “No” – which are the pink-colored polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 5, 'Yes' vote, those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. Now I would like to ask Mr Zanger to begin with the name call. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15153	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this will now be under the supervision of the registrars... [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl throws the ballot into the urn.]] [[Call BZÖ and ÖVP:He! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. That's incredible! They can't even vote! Call at the BZÖ – towards the Greens –: You are too low for everything]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of Mr Zinggl has not been put to the vote until the end of the vote. I've waited long enough for you to come. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No! He's sitting in the back!]] No, no. [[Further calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I interrupt the meeting and ask the club chairmen to come to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15220	I repeat the interrupted sitting and note once again that the vote of Mr Zinggl has been taken after the end of the vote and is not included in the vote. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I would like to draw your attention to the following points before I now ask the House's staff responsible to begin voting under the supervision of the authors: I have nothing against it at all if the scribes read quickly. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – May I ask for attention?- Oh, my God! This applies now to all: I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the votes of this House two Members do not vote at the same time, because it is also counted, and this is not the case twice. So: It can quickly It's done, but please be in a row. It's done the first time. I hope it works in the future. I interrupt the vote-counting session.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15291	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 34, No votes: 141. The deletion of Article 5 is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. This also applies to all other votes. It is no longer mentioned separately. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Dolnschek; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hagen, Huber Gerhard; Kogler, Korun; Lightenecker, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Moser, Musiol; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Walser, Westenthaler, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windholz, Widmann Rainer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Hübner Johannes; Ikrath; Jannach, Jarolim; Chapel, Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15464	We shall therefore immediately vote on Article 5 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 6, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on Rule 7 as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 11, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 13, requested by Members of Parliament. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 14, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 15, requested by Members of Parliament. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 19, requested by Members of this House. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues on the deletion of Rule 23. In addition, there has been too much call for a separate vote. In view of the fact that the request for the name of 20 Members has been put to the vote, the name of the vote has to be taken on the request for the deletion of Rule 23. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 23, 'Yes' vote, i.e. grey, and those who vote with No, to throw pink in the urn. I may ask the writer to start the name call. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15646	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15681	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 173; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 68, No votes: 105. The deletion of Article 23 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, cup; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crockery, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, head, chest, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15861	We shall immediately vote on Article 23 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues, and others, who have tabled an amendment to paragraph 24. b. I am looking for those members of the House who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 24, requested by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 27, requested by Members of this House. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 29. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues on the deletion of Rule 29. In addition, there has been too much call for a separate vote. As the request for the name of 20 Members was put to the vote, the name of the vote on the request for the deletion of Rule 29 is to be carried out, which is why I am doing so. The procedure is known. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of the removal with “Yes” votes, i.e. with the grey ones, and those who are opposed to voting with “No” votes, that is, the pink ones, and to throw them into the urn. I'm looking for the scribes for the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e15972	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting to count the votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16007	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 176; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 70, ‘No’ votes: 106. [[See correction by President Neugebauer: p. 232.]] The deletion of Article 29 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer; Zinggl. With ‘No’, MEPs voted (including 1 invalid vote): Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16192	I shall immediately vote on Article 29 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 30, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 32, requested by Mr Bucher, colleagues. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We now proceed to the vote on Rule 33. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues on the deletion of Rule 33. In addition, there has been too much call for a separate vote. Since the request for a name-named vote was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing the same thing. The procedure is known. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 33, 'Yes' vote, i.e. the grey, and those who vote against, 'No' vote, namely, the pink one, to throw into the urn. I'm now looking for the writing to perform the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16297	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting to count the votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16332	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 69, No votes: 106. [[See correction by President Mag. Prammer: p. 222.]] The deletion of Article 33 is therefore rejected. The Members voted with ‘Yes’ (corrected version): Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16519	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 33 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Business treatment, please!]] It is actually during the voting process... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh yes!]] Is it? [[Calls:Yes]] For business treatment: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16580	Madam President. § 66 para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure provides that the vote shall normally be taken by standing up and sitting. For the time being, my group has observed that Mr Prehauser is too comfortable for the Social Democrats to rise up or sit down, and has always taken his hand. I don't know what to do, but I'm asking you to note this fact in the minutes. If one suspects the voting margin of Mr Zinggl, then this voting margin must also be avoided.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16613	For business treatment: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16650	Madam President. I would like to thank Mr Stadler for having the opportunity to report that despite major problems of the cross today to visit the session and not to play the sick.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16679	We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 34, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President, what do you say about this?]] I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. [[Abg. Prehauser will vote by hand.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I can't do that!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is not possible!]] – This is the majority and thus accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a positive sign. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then the Zinggl can vote as he pleases!]] This would also apply to others who cannot stand up. [[Abg. May. Stadler: § 66, paragraph 1!]] Mr Prehauser, as I know, is suffering a serious cross and should not be here at all. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then let him go!]] And I think you can take note of it when he lifts his hand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then he should go to the hospital!]] With regard to standing up and staying seated, it is said: “generally, ” and not: “mandatory. ” [[Deputies Mag. Stadler and Ing. Westenthaler: “Thank you!” “Thank you!”]] Otherwise we wouldn't be barrier-free in this room at all. [[Abg. Grosz: That's what we're doing now!]] . I do not know, however, whether there are other Members of this House with tape disc incident. You'll have to tell me in time. [[Abg. Head: With backbone problems already!]] We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 38, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. [[Members of the BZÖ shall communicate their consent by handsigns.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: A... paid kindergarten!]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. I interrupt the meeting and ask the club chairmen to come to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16868	I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 39, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. [[Members of the BZÖ rise from their seats and raise their hands at the same time.]] [[Call: Kindergarten]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 40. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Steinhauser, Members of Parliament, as well as an amendment tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues, on the deletion of Article 40. In addition, there has been too much call for a separate vote. Since the request for a name-named vote was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing the same thing. The procedure is known: I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 40 to vote with “Yes” votes, i.e. grey, and those who vote against, with “No” votes, the pink ones, and to cast them into the urn. I now ask the writing for the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16931	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e16962	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 69, No votes: 106. The deletion of Article 40 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17141	I shall immediately vote on Article 40 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 41, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, on the deletion of Rule 42 on the vote. The vote has also been taken on this subject. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known: Those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 42, I would like to ask for the "yes" vote, i.e. the grey vote, those who vote against, "No" vote, that is, the pink vote. I'm trying to get the writing started with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17198	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17230	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 174; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 35, No votes: 139. The removal of Article 42 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Dolnschek; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hagen, Huber Gerhard; Kogler, Korun; Lightenecker, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Moser, Musiol; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hornek, Huainigg, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim; Chapel, Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Duster Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17399	We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 42 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 43, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, who have the subject of the deletion of paragraph 11 in Rule 43. Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known: I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of paragraph 11 in Article 43, 'Yes' vote, i.e. the grey ones, and those who vote against, 'No' vote, i.e. the pink vote, to cast into the original. I'm looking for the writing for the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17473	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17505	I welcome the interrupted session again, thanking the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's management in the meantime, for that is a good record. [[General condolences.]] Members cast: 173; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 71, No votes: 102. [[See correction by President Neugebauer: p. 232.]] The deletion of paragraph 11 in Article 43 is therefore rejected. The Members voted in ‘Yes’ [[Corrected version]] Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gater, clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17701	I shall immediately vote on Rule 43 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on Rule 48. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Dr. Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, as well as an amendment by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, concerning the deletion of Rule 48. In addition, there has been a call for name and separate vote. Since the request for a name-named vote was made by 20 Members, it must be carried out. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known: I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 48, 'Yes', i.e. the grey paper, 'Yes'. use and throw into the urn those who vote against using “No, ” that is, the pink - colored. I ask the writing to perform the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17775	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17807	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 172; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 69, No votes: 103. The removal of Article 48 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gater, clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e17980	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 48 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote is now under Rule 54(1). 2 Z 1 as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jacob Auer, colleagues. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 55, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 56, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 56(4), as amended by the amendment tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, The request has been made by 20 Members and the vote will therefore be taken. The procedure is known. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of an amendment to Article 56(4), “Yes”, that is, the grey papers, and those who vote against, to throw “No” vote, that is, the pink-colored one into the constituency. I may ask the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18085	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18120	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 172; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 18, ‘No’ votes: 154. [[See correction by President Neugebauer: p. 232.]] The amendment to Article 56(4) is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Green Forest; Kogler; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Moser, Musiol; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Honey, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Roller, wind-winder-sußill; Zinggl. With ‘No’ the Members voted (corrected version): Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis-Schlager, Csörgits, Deimek, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höller, Hörler, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stauber Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; themesl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18288	Before we proceed with the vote, I would like to make a correction with regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues with regard to Supplement 1/12 as regards Rule 33. A vote was taken on this matter. Correction: There were not 175 votes cast, but 176 votes cast, one vote more, namely 70 votes, for “Yes”. We shall vote on Rule 56 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on the additional amendment by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the insertion of a new § 1a in Rule 57. Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing the same thing. The procedure is known: Those Members who vote for the insertion of a new section 1a in Article 57 may cast “Yes” votes, i.e. the grey, those who are against, pink “no” vote in the elections. I'm trying to get the writing started with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18377	The vote will end. I shall then immediately interrupt the sitting on the number of votes. I'm going to interrupt the session until we get the last part of the Croquis. The entire last part is finished and already for corrective reading by Dr. Janistyn. I interrupt the meeting – by 8.30 p.m., then we all have an orientation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18421	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 172; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 19, ‘No’ votes: 153. The introduction of a new § 1 lit. (a) Article 57 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Green Forest; Kogler, Korun; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Moser, Musiol; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Honey, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Roller, wind-winder-sußill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Becher, Binder-maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höller, Hörler, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim; Chapel, Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stauber Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; themesl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18584	We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 57, requested by Members of this House. I ask for a sign if I agree. – That is rejected. We shall vote on Rule 57, as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendments tabled by Mr Krainer and Mr Jakob Auer. I'm asking you for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, on the amendment to the introductory phrase in Rule 58. I would like to ask for your important sign if I have consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the deletion of paragraph 1 lit. (b) in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, colleagues. Please have your consent. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 2 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. If you agree, I ask you for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. Please have a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 3 in Rule 58, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask for your sign upon consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 4 in Rule 58, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Please accept your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall also vote on the deletion of paragraph 5 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The procedure is known. No further explanations are required. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18744	The vote will end. I interrupt the vote-counting session.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18779	I'll start the discussions again. I announce the results of the vote. Members cast: 177; ‘Yes’ votes: 19, ‘No’ votes: 158. The deletion of paragraph 5 in Article 58 is therefore rejected. With “Yes, ” MEPs voted: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Green Forest; Kogler, Korun; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Moser, Musiol; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Honey, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Roller, wind-winder-sußill; Zinggl. With “No, ” MEPs voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höller, Hörler, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Chapel, Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e18939	I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those colleagues who are in favour of it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the deletion of paragraph 6 lit. (a) in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the deletion of paragraph 6 lit. (b) in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, colleagues. I would ask you to give me an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall be voting separately on the deletion of paragraph 6 lit. d in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, colleagues. I'll look for your sign when I'm agreed. – The request is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I'm asking you for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 7 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, colleagues. I ask you to accept your sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 9 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I ask for your sign upon consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I ask you for your vote. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 10 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I ask you for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 12 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I'm asking for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask you for your vote. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 13 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I'm asking you for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 14 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I'm asking you for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 15 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I'm asking you for your sign right here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on Rule 58(26). a as a result of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jacob Auer, colleagues. If you join him, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 28 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I ask you for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking you for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 29 in Rule 58, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. I now bring Article 58, paragraph 36, paragraph 124 lit. (b) point 184 and point 185 lit. a as a result of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues and others, on the vote. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 59, requested by Members of the European Parliament. I'm asking you for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you're for that, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 60, requested by Members of the European Parliament. I ask you to accept your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall come to the vote on Rule 60 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. If you agree, I would ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will be taken on Rule 63, requested by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. The vote has been taken on this subject. The procedure is known. The writing begins with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e19278	The vote will end. I interrupt the meeting for the purpose of counting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e19313	I will resume the deliberations and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 178; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 56, No votes: 122. The deletion of Article 63 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Deimek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grazeit, Graf, Grünewald, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder; Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Honey, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walnuts, windbühler-suushill, winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e19491	We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I ask for a sign on this. – This is accepted by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already happened three times that voting cards stick together, and therefore we have to make appropriate corrections, because we are to read the Official Protocol, so also when voting on Rule 29 – in the ‘No’ votes was an invalid one – in which voting on Rule 43 – in the ‘yes’ votes was invalid – and in the vote on Rule 56 – in the ‘No’ votes was invalid. Please see that not two polls stick together, so you really only throw in one card. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 64 as amended by the Committee's report, which is requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. If you give your consent to this, I ask you for a sign to do so. – That is unanimously decided. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Deputies Grosz and Ing. Westenthaler: It's through!]] We shall come to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 65, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. We shall come to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 66, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President. I'm asking for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for his sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 67, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 68, requested by Members of this House. I ask for your consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, requested the deletion of Rule 69. The vote was called for. We're going as we know it. I ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e19568	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e19602	I can resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 19, ‘No’ votes: 156. The deletion of Article 69 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Green Forest; Kogler, Korun; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Moser, Musiol; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Honey, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Roller, wind-winder-sußill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höller, Hörler, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Chapel, Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Riemer, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Duster Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e19765	I shall immediately vote on Rule 69 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 70, requested by Members of this House. I ask for your consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. It follows the separate vote on the deletion of Rule 72, requested by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher and Mr De Keers. I ask for your consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 73, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. I would ask you, in case of your consent, to give your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 74, requested by Members of this House. I'm asking for your vote. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will now be taken on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I would ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 75, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask for your consent. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. The vote will be taken on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, on amendments to the introduction rates in Articles 77 and 78. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall vote on Article 78. Paragraph 4 as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. If you're for that, I'll ask for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 81, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'll look for your sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I'll ask you for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Now follows the separate vote on the deletion of Rule 82, requested by Members of the European Parliament. If you agree, I ask for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 83, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm asking for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for your vote. – This is decided by a majority. That's why it's accepted. We shall come to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 84, requested by Members of this House. I'm asking you for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The next item is the vote on the supplementary motion by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, on the insertion of new points 4 and 5 into Rule 84. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are calling for it. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, asked for a separate vote on Rule 85. I therefore come to the separate vote on Rule 85, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's accepted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 86, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. If you agree, I ask for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote is to delete paragraph 1 in Rule 86, requested by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The procedure is known. I ask the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20032	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting for the purpose of counting the votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20066	I'll start the discussions again. The result of the vote is as follows: Members cast: 176; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 34, No votes: 142. The deletion of paragraph 1 in Article 86 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Dolnschek; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hagen, Huber Gerhard; Kogler, Korun; Lightenecker, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Moser, Musiol; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windbühler-Sushill, Windholz; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königser, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, schitzenhelmm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Duster Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stumvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20241	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 86 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 88, requested by Members of the European Parliament. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you agree, I ask you to give me a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Fichtenbauer asked for a separate vote on Rule 95. The vote was also called for. The procedure is known. I now ask the scribes to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20343	Ladies and gentlemen, please be patient. At the moment, nothing is happening at all, you do not have to be upset, and we are not in Ukraine at all, Mr President. There is a need for a correction in the title, as the Members of Parliament's Directorate tell me. [[No call at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It's about clarification. [[President Neugebauer advises with the club members Dr. Cap, Head, Street, Bucher and Dr. Glavisnig-Piesczek as well as with the competent staff of the Parliamentary Directorate.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Enunciation is enunciation!]] The vote will end. I'm asking for an enumeration.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20399	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 148; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 6, ‘No’ votes: 142. – Therefore rejected. [[Complaints and bravaders at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The government has failed!]] [[See correction by President Dr Graf: p. 266.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aubauer; Bartenstein; Hornek; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Rädler Johann; It's stupid. With “No, ” MEPs voted Ablinger, Amon, Auer Jacob, Auer Josef; [[Corrected version]] Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Hörl, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Chapel, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Head, Korun, Kößl, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuzdas; Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Moser, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Upper nostrils, oleaginous; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prinz; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Jewellery, Schönegger Bernd, Schultes, Schussel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windholz, Winter, Wöinger; Zinger, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20472	We shall come to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 96, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign on this. – This is the minority and rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 97, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. I'm asking for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, my voice has only a limited power. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 98, requested by Members of the European Parliament. I'm asking for approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 99, requested by Mr Bucher, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Furthermore, the deletion of paragraph 3 in Rule 99 was requested by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. There is a request for a roll-call vote. We'll do this. The procedure is known. “Yes” votes are the grey, “No” voting hand the pink. The writing begins with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20590	The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20621	I'll start the interrupted session again. The outcome of the vote: Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 35, No votes: 140. The deletion of paragraph 3 in Article 99 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Dolnschek; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hagen, Huber Gerhard; Kogler, Korun; Lightenecker, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Moser, Musiol; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagenhofer, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Chapel, Kapeller, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Slickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Duster Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Strutz, Stummvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20788	I shall immediately vote on Article 99 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the deletion of Rule 100. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The procedure is known. “Yes” voter are grey in color, “No” voter pink in colour. The writing begins with the name call. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20847	The vote will end. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e20881	I'll start the interrupted session again. The outcome of the vote: Members cast: 179; ‘Yes’ votes: 57, ‘No’ votes: 122. [[See correction by President Dr Graf: p. 254.]] The removal of Article 100 is therefore rejected. The Members voted in ‘Yes’ [[Corrected version]] Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Deimek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grauburd, Graf, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder; Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Honey, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walnuts, windbühler-suushill, winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Petzner, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21071	The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Members Dolinschek, colleagues on the deletion of paragraphs 1 and 13 in Article 100. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 100 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 6 in Rule 103, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. Please ask for your sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 15 in Rule 103, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. Please accept your sign. – The request is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Please ask for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 27 in Rule 103, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. Please ask for your sign. – This is the minority and rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Please ask for your important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Separate vote on the deletion of Rule 104, requested by Mr Bucher, fellow Members. Please have your consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Please accept your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on Rule 105. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Dr. Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, as well as an amendment by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, concerning the deletion of Rule 105. In addition, there has been a demand for name-named and separate vote. The vote will take place at the next voting time. That is why we are doing so. The procedure is known. “Yes” voter are grey in color, “No” voter pink in colour. I now ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21224	The vote is closed, the sitting suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21255	I'll start the interrupted session again. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 178 votes valid – one was invalid – of which “Yes” votes: 71, No votes: 107. The removal of Article 105 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler (2 voting cards), Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol (2 voting cards); Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windbühler-Sushill, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser (2 cards), Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21432	I shall be voting on Rule 105 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on Rule 112. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Bucher, colleagues on the deletion of Article 112. In addition, there has been a demand for nameless and separate vote. The vote will take place at the next voting time. The procedure is known to you. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 112, “Yes”, i.e. grey, and those who vote against, to throw pink “No” vote in the urn. I ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21498	The vote will end. I interrupt the vote-counting session.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21532	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 176; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 70, ‘No’ votes: 106. The deletion of Article 112 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer, Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Widmann Rainer, Windbühler-Sushill, Windwood, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21710	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 112 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I now put to the vote the deletion of Rule 114, requested by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The procedure is known. I ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21758	The vote will end. I interrupt the vote-counting session.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21792	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 172; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 19, ‘No’ votes: 153. The deletion of Article 114 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Green Forest; Kogler, Korun; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Moser, Musiol; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Honey, Schwentner, Steinhauser; Van der Bellen; Roller, wind-winder-sußill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Belakovich-Jenewein, Binder-Maier, Bucher Josef; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Deimek, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Doppler, Schlag; Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtenbauer, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grazurdauer, Graf, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grosz Gerald; Haberzettl, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarolim, jury; Chapel, Karlsböck, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Clickovits, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Königshofer, Koßl, Krainer, Herbs, Krist, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lausch, Linder, Lipitsch, List, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Maier Johann, Markowitz, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Mayerhofer, Molterer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rosenkranz, Rudas; Sacher, Scheibner, Schenk, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spadiut, Spindelberger, Stadler Ewald, Stauber Peter, Stefan, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Strache, Stummvoll; Tadler Erich, Tamandel, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Wenninger, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e21954	I shall immediately vote on Article 114 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 115, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. Whoever stands for it, I am looking for an acceptable sign. – The application does not find a majority. He's rejected. The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on points 39, 48, 52 and 74 in Rule 115. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of That is why we are doing so. The procedure is known. I ask the scribes to start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22020	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22060	I will resume the interrupted session and inform you that the vote on Rule 100 has brought back together again, so that it is correct to declare a 'yes' vote invalid. It doesn't change the voter's will. This is so corrected in the Official Protocol. With regard to Rule 115, the vote resulted in the following: Members cast: 177; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 71, No votes: 106. The amendment tabled by Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22247	I shall now vote on Rule 115, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 116, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 116, as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 117, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 117, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 118, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall now vote on Rule 118, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, on the amendment to the introductory phrase in Rule 119. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 120, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the deletion of the table of contents before Rule 121, requested by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 6 in Rule 122, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 39 in Rule 122, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 67 in Rule 122, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 41 in Rule 123, requested by Members of this House. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote will now be taken on the additional amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, and others on the insertion of a new paragraph 6. a in Article 124. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall now vote on Rule 124, paragraph 35, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Auer, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour to vote for it. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 1 in Rule 126, requested by Members of Parliament, Bucher and colleagues. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 10 in Rule 126, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 127, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 8 in Rule 128, requested by Members of this House. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 132, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of paragraph 1 in Rule 133, requested by Members of Parliament, Bucher and colleagues. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 134, requested by Members of the European Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 135, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote is now to delete paragraphs 1 to 11 in Rule 135, requested by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of paragraphs 1 to 11 in Article 135, 'Yes' vote, i.e. the grey vote, and those who vote against 'No' vote, these are the pink ones to cast into the urn. I now ask the scribes to carry out the name call. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22666	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22700	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 176; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 72, ‘No’ votes: 104. The deletion of paragraphs 1 to 11 in Article 135 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Honey, gift (2 cards), Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22878	The vote will now be taken at paragraph 13 in Rule 135, requested by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. Hiezu also called for 20 Members to vote by name. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22923	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e22957	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 177; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 71, No votes: 105. – 1 voice is invalid. The deletion of paragraph 13 in Article 135 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelmm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schopf, Schultes, Schussel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23142	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 135 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We now proceed to the vote on Rule 136. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Bucher, colleagues, on the deletion of Rule 136. In addition, there has been too much call for a separate vote. Since the request for a name-named vote was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23199	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23233	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote on Rule 136. Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 70, ‘No’ votes: 105. The removal of Article 136 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek; Huainigg; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23411	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 136 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who speak for it to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 137, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 138, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 139, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 140, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote will now be taken on the amendment of points 4 and 5 in Rule 140, requested by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. The vote has been taken by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I ask the writing to perform the name call. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23524	The vote will end. Please proceed to the vote counting. I announce that two cards are tied together when voting on Article 95, so that a “no” vote is invalid. Therefore, the voting behaviour is as follows: Members cast: 148; 6 'Yes' votes, 141 'No' votes, 1 invalid vote. This will be so corrected in the Official Protocol. I am now interrupting the sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23587	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote on Rule 140. Members cast: 174; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 69, No votes: 103 and 1 invalid voice. The deletion of points 4 and 5 in Article 140 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schitzenhelm, Schmielenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e23771	We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 140 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 141, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 143, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 145, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 146, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 146, as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Jakob Auer, colleagues. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 147, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 151, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 153, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 154, requested by Members of Parliament. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 155, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When consent is given, seek a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the deletion of Rule 156, requested by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President of the Commission. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Krainer, Jakob Auer, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled in the order in which they are put in place, taking account of this request for a name-call vote. We shall first proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, on the conversion of the system of commuting fees to a kilometres-dependent counterpart aid. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, colleagues, on the reduction of all Party funding. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the option for politicians in the old pension system in the new pension system. Hiezu has been called for by 20 Members. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I'm looking for the writing to perform the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e24047	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting on the number of votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e24081	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 178; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 55, ‘No’ votes: 123. The motion for a resolution by Mr Themessl, colleagues on options for politicians in the old pension system in the new pension system is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Scheibner, Schenk, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windholz, Winter; Singer. With 'No', Members voted: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Großruck, Grünewald; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, korun, koßl, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchitsch, Musiol, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ollinger; Pack, Pendl, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schickhofer, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Van der Bellen; Weninger, Windbühler-Souschill, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e24266	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on tobacco tax law 1995. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Gartelgruber, colleagues and colleagues on the fees for decisions on the approval of legal acts of care counsellors, § 132 AußStrG, and on the confirmation of the Pflegschaftskontaktion, § 137 AussStrG. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I now turn to the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stefan, colleagues on the introduction of appropriate transitional arrangements in connection with the increase in the basic book entry fee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President, on comprehensive state reform at the highest institutions in the Republic. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Now we are voting on the draft federal law which amends the Federal Law on the Employment of Parliamentary Employees, the Parliamentary Staff Act, and the Federal Law on the Pensions of the Supreme Institutions of the Federal Government, the Members of the National Council and the Federal Council and the Members of the European Parliament sent by Austria, in 1027 of the Supplements. To this end, MEPs have tabled an amendment to Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. [[Abg. Krainer: The BZÖ was at the beginning!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas towards BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ( towards SPÖ) Abkassier!]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[23:44:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e24378	I am still announcing that Questions Nos 7146/J to 7151/J were received at today's meeting. [[23:44:45]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2010-12-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00090_d8e24402	I also have a written request from 20 Members, the proposed version of the Official Protocol as regards: TOP 1: Budgetary Support Act 2011 (1026 of the Supplements), TOP 2: Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Parliament Staff Act and the Federal Reference Act (1027 of the Supplements); and TOP 3: Re-election of the main committee, to read to ensure that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the session. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. 'In response to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 1 and 2, there is no objection. TO point 1: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (981 e.g._Other Organiser German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law for the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on December 1948 on the granting of exemption from fees for bonds of local authorities, the Energy Charges Act, the Investment Fund Act, the Real EstateInvestment Fund Act, the Standard Consumer Tax Act 1991, the Municipal Tax Act 1993, the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Code 2010, the Tax Administration Act, the Gambling Act, the Tobacco Tax Act 1995, the Tobacco Monopol Act 1996, the Mineral Oil Tax Act 1995, the Financial Compensation Act 2008, the Civil Service Act 1986, the Association Law 2002, the Federal Foundation and Fund Act, the German Law 2001, the Heerespleitungsgesetz 2002, the Heerheisegesetz 2001, the Competition Act 2001, the Competition Act, the Mineral Raw Material Law, the SME Fund Fund Fund Fund. German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Seas, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to the Law to the Law on the the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on TO point 2: Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on Employment of Parliamentary Employees (Parliament Staff Act) and the Federal Law on the Remuneration of the Supreme Institutions of the Federal Republic of Germany, the members of the National Council and the Federal Council and the members of the European Parliament (Bundesreitungsgesetz – BBezG) sent by Austria (1027 of the Supplements) There is a demand for a separate vote on Rule 95 of Supplement I/1. In addition, there is a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Rule 95, Supplement I/2. There is a demand for a separate vote on Articles 64 and 85 of Supplement I/4. Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/2 with regard to Art. 57. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/19. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Mr Themessl, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/4 EA). Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/3. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Themessl, Mr President, put forward a motion for a resolution (Annex 1/5 EA). Deputies Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 1/6 as regards Art. 42. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/27. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 135 Z 1 to 11. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/13. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 135 Z 13. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/14. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 48. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/20. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/1 as regards Art. 29 in. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/24. Member of Parliament Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/11 as regards Art. 43. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/28. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 33................................................................................................. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/26. Deputies Mag. Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 1/13 as regards Art. 40. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/25. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 23 in. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/23. Mr Dolinschek, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 1/15. Member of Parliament Jakob Auer, Krainer, Members of Parliament, tabled an amendment to Supplement 2/1. Deputies Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, bring the amendment Supplement 1/16 with regard to Art. 56. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/5. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 58. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/9. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 63. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/8. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, for his excellent report. 69. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/11. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/20 with regard to Art. 86. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/15. Deputies Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, bring the amendment Addendum 1/21 with regard to Art. 99. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/7. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/22 to Art. 136. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/12. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/23 with regard to Art. 140. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/18. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/24 to Art. 5 in. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/10. Mr Gartelgruber, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/25 EA). Deputies Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/26 EA. Deputies Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, bring the amendment Addendum 1/27 with regard to Art. 100. Hiezu is in favour of a request from 20 Members on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/28 with regard to Art. 105. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/21. Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/29 with regard to Art. 112. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/6. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 114. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/22. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 115. Hiezu has a request from 20 Members to vote in favour of Supplement I/17. The Members of Parliament, Mr Krainer, Mr Auer, and others, tabled the amendment Supplement 1/32, which is set out in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the amendment to Supplement 1/33, which is set out in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. There is a demand for separate vote supplement I/29. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/34 EA). Adjournment of the session from 15.11 a.m. to 15.24 p.m. Adjournment of the session from 15.25 a.m. to 15.27 p.m. The President moved in accordance with § 65 para. The vote on agenda items 1 and 2 will take place at the end of the sitting. TO point 3: Re-election of the main committee. Following an agreement at the Presidential Conference as a result of a change in the strength ratio of the clubs, the number of members shall be fixed unanimously with 26 members. The SPÖ Club and the ÖVP Club each account for 8, on the FPÖ Club 5, on the Green Club 3 and on the BZÖ Club 2 members. Due to the electoral lists according to § 30 para. The following Members were elected unanimously by 2 and 3 GMOs. From the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap Renate Csörgits Marianne Hagenhofer Anton Heinzl Kai Jan Krainer May. Christine Muttonen Stefan Prehauser Mag.a Barbara Prammer from the ÖVP-Klub: Dr. Martin Bartenstein Karl Donabauer Karl Heinz Kopp May. Wilhelm Molterer Fritz Neugebauer Dr Ursula Plassnik Dorothea schittenhelm, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel from the FPÖ Club: Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer Dr Martin Graf Dr. Johannes Hübner Dr. Walter Rosenkranz Heinz-Christian Strache from the Green Club: Dr.in Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek May. Albert Steinhauser Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen from BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher May. Ewald Stadler At 6 p.m. § 65 para. 1 GOG put the vote on agenda items 1 and 2. To TO point 1: The amendment Supplement 1/2 to Art. 57 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 172 of which yes-voice 19 No votes 153 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 7.48 a.m. to 20.49 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/6 as regards Art. 42 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 174 35 of which No votes 139 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 19.15 a.m. to 7.18 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/7 as regards Art. 135 Z 1 to 11 will be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast: 176 Of which Yes-Voice 72 No votes 104 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 22.51 a.m. to 22.55 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/8 as regards Art. 135 Z 13 will be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast 177 of which Yes votes 71 (+ 1 invalid) No votes 105 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 22.59 a.m. to 23.06 a.m. The amendment Annex 1/9 as regards Art. 48 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 172 Of which yes-voice 69 No votes 103 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 7.30 a.m. to 7.34 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/1 to Art. 29 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast: 176 Of which 70 votes in favour No votes 105 (+ 1 invalid) (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 18.35 a.m. to 18.48 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/11 as regards Art. 43 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 173 Of which yes-voice 70 (+ 1 invalid) No votes 102 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 19.22 a.m. to 19.26 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/12 as regards Art. 33 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast: 176 Of which 70 votes in favour No votes 106 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 18.53 a.m. to 18.57 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/13 to Art. 40 to be voted in a narrow vote Votes cast 175 Of which yes-voice 69 No votes 106 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 19.07 a.m. to 19.10 a.m. The amendment Supplement 1/14 to Art. 23 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 173 Of which yes-voice 68 No votes 105 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 18.26 a.m. to 18.29 p.m. The amendment Amendment 1/15 is rejected (F, G, B). The amendment Addenda 1/16 as regards Art. 56 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 172 Of which yes-voice 18 No votes 153 (+ 1 invalid) (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 7.38 a.m. to 7.43 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/17 as regards Art. 58 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 177 of which yes-voice19 No votes 158 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 20.55 a.m. to 20.58 p.m. The amendment Addenda 1/18 as regards Art. 63 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 178 Of which yes-voices 56 No votes 122 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the vote on the results of the sitting from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. The amendment Addenda 1/19 as regards Art. 69 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 175 of which yes-voice 19 No votes 156 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the vote on the part-session from 21:19 to 22.00. The amendment Supplement 1/20 to Art. 86 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast: 176 Of which Yes-Voices 34 No votes 142 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 21.31 a.m. to 21.35 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/21 to Art. 99 to be voted in a narrow vote Votes cast 175 35 of which No votes 140 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 21.51 a.m. to 21.55 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/22 to Art. 136 will be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast 175 Of which 70 votes in favour No votes 105 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 23.10 a.m. to 23.13 p.m. The amendment Addenda 1/23 as regards Art. 140 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 174 Of which yes-voice 69 No votes 103 (+ 1 invalid) (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the vote on the part-session between 23:19 and 23.25 p.m. The amendment Supplement 1/24 to Art. 5 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 175 Of which Yes-Voices 34 No votes 141 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the part-session on voting from 18.13 a.m. to 18.18. - Uh-huh. The amendment Supplement 1/27 to Art. 100 will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 179 Of which yes votes 56 (+ 1 invalid) No votes 122 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 21.58 a.m. to 22.03 p.m. The amendment Addenda 1/28 as regards Art. 105 will be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast 179 of which Yes votes 71 (+ 1 invalid) No votes 107 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 22.08 a.m. to 22.14 p.m. The amendment Addenda 1/29 as regards Art. 112 will be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast: 176 Of which 70 votes in favour No votes 106 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting part-session from 22.17 a.m. to 22.21 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/30 as regards Art. 114 to be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast 172 of which yes-voice 19 No votes 153 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 22.25 a.m. to 22.29 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/31 concerning Art. 115 to be put to the vote in a narrow vote. Votes cast 177 Of which yes-voice 71 No votes 106 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 22.32 a.m. to 22.37 p.m. The amendment Annex 1/33 is rejected in a separate vote with changing majority groups (for example B and B). F, G, B, A respectively. F, B, A respectively. G, B). The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1026 of the Supplements, will be partially unanimously adopted in the second reading, taking account of the amendment proposal for a supplement 1/32, in part by a separate vote with a different majority, partly by a majority (for which S, V, and so on). S, V, G) and at third reading adopted by a majority vote (S, V). With regard to Rule 95, in the light of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in the light of the opinion of the Votes cast 148 Of which yes-voices 6 No votes 141 (+ 1 invalid) (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 21.42 a.m. to 21.45 p.m. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected (F, B, A). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA) is rejected (F, B, A). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/4 EA will be put to the vote at the next voting time. Votes cast 178 Of which Yes-Voices 55 No votes 123 (The sitting was suspended Adjournment of the voting session from 23.36 a.m. to 23.40 p.m. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is rejected (F, B, A). The motion for a resolution (Annex 1/25) EA is rejected (F, G, B, A). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/26 EA is rejected (F, G, B, A). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/34 EA is rejected (B). To TO point 2: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 1027 of the Supplements, is adopted by a majority of votes in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 2/1 (S, V, F, G, A). There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 3 before (Annex C).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The corresponding parts of the Official Protocol shall therefore apply in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 0.07 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
