ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4371	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. I would like to warmly welcome the President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Heinz Fischersehr, in our midst. [[General condolences.]] The Official Protocols of 83 and 84. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In November 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Schickhofer, Mag. Worm, Dr. Bartenstein, Grossruck, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Mag. Brunner and Mag. Dr. Zinggl. [[09:07:39]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4417	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4732	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the Government's draft on the Federal Finance Act for 2011 together with investments (980 of the Supplements) at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to be in accordance with the sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4756	The debate on points 3 to 6, 7 to 10, 11 to 18, 19 to 21 and 22 and 23 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4784	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 126 minutes, FPÖ 113 minutes, Green 99 minutes and BZÖ 95 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the honourable Member's speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. For the duration of the debate on the transparency database, the following statement was agreed: First round 8 minutes, a member of the government of the ÖVP 10 minutes, another round with 7 minutes each, a member of the government of the SPÖ 10 minutes, a speaker/redner round with 6 minutes and another round with 5 minutes. At the beginning of the last round, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining time in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television period. We shall now proceed to the vote on this Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:09:30]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for 2011 and investments
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4838	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I can give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor to make the statement. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4862	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! 2010 was and is a year of probation for Europe, for Austria, for the Federal Government, for me personally, and therefore I would like to start with a few personal comments about the last days. The last days and hours, but also the last weeks and months, were determined by two challenges: first by working on the budget and second by stabilizing our single currency, the euro. From Friday to Saturday, in the government, we cut off the final details with the coalition partner and finalized the budget. On Sunday I had to go to Brussels to meet the finance ministers to do what is necessary to stabilise Europe and the euro, namely a package for Ireland. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A hard job!]] Today we are at the end of long and tough budgetary negotiations, in a phase of tough and public debate, at the beginning of a budget debate in Parliament. At this hour, we should consider the environment in which we will hold this debate, where we as the Republic of Austria today, have experienced, but also learned what we are experiencing this year – and then we will have a discussion that will justify the facts! This should be defined as a claim to meet the responsibility we bear together for this country, whether as government or opposition, beyond the 2010 political year and the 2011 to 2014 budget years and beyond. I am convinced that it would happen if we were to do so on 22 February. Here in the House on December, a budget will be decided, not only will it be a savings package, but it will be a future package that we can present to the Austrians. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union – and above all the countries of the euro area – had to put in place this year those measures which were necessary at national level in 2009. It was not about saving individual banks, it was about our common currency, the euro. With a package of € 750 million, a unique shield was stretched across the euro area, and you can see just these days and weeks how important this signal was. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The banks are protected, the people are thrown!]] Some countries have lived over their conditions over the last decades. They have not undertaken any structural reforms and have lived from one day to the next, and this is unfortunately very expensive for people in these countries today. [[Abg. Kickl: And they will be rewarded now!]] 2010 is a hard year of parole also for Austria. We have already known for the second time in government education – it will soon be the second time – that we face two crucial challenges in this federal government. The first and most important challenge: We had to lead Austria through the financial and economic crisis, which threatened and threatened jobs and prosperity in a massive way. And the second challenge: We need to reduce public debt again because we want to use our tax money for the future design rather than for the payment of interest. We have managed the global financial crisis better in Austria than other European Union countries and also internationally. And now we have to do our homework: Reducing debt, taking advantage of the opportunities of recovery and bringing Austria further forward. This is difficult, without a doubt, and this is also painful in many areas, but once we look around, we see quickly, we are on a good – I say, better – way than many others. Austria has grown more than twice as fast as the European Union in the third quarter – and these are the most recent economic figures. [[Abg. Kickl: But despite the government!]] EU growth: 0.4 percent, Austria: 0.9 percent. Average unemployment in the euro area
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4986	Mr. Vice-Chancellor, one second! The ladies and gentlemen know that at the gallery there are no equinoxes. Therefore, I will interrupt the meeting until the rest of the gallery.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5018	I welcome the interrupted meeting again and ask Mr Vice-Chancellor to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5039	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is nice that there is freedom of expression in Austria, and that is why we should accept it and see it as it is. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let's go back to the figures and facts. The average unemployment in the euro area is currently 10.1 per cent, and in Austria it is not even half that high at 4.5 per cent. Today, average re-indebtedness in the EU will rise to well over 7 percent. What is Austria? – Again significantly better with 4.5 percent. Next year, the average re-indebtedness in the European Union will still be more than 5 percent, the Austrian re-indebtedness with this budget, which we present today, will be only 3 percent lower by a third and thus in the top-level of Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The research rate in Austria is expected to be 2.76 percent of our economic performance in 2010. We are in place in Europe in third place behind Finland and Sweden, still in front of Germany, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. And with all the understanding of the protests that have been voiced in the last days and weeks and that there are: We should and can also be proud of what we have done in Austria and where we stand with this country in Europe today! This too is an essential point of our political work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But, of course, in a phase like this, even self-criticism, we need to highlight where we stand and what challenges lie ahead of us. Over the past two years, Austria's deficit and new debt and public debt have increased dramatically. This means that we must continue to work consistently – even in the coming years – because where debt leads, we see this in various parts of Europe, especially in these days. The way to the budget was not easy, the weeks after it was not quite. Since the Federal Government presented its budget draft in Loipersdorf, there have been many criticisms, criticisms that have been quite comprehensible in individual points. [[Abg. Scheibner: The tears come to me!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's one regret you're doing!]] That is why we have also made adjustments on some points. And it was true and applied once again to the principle: There are some points you can discuss, but there is no alternative to the overall package! The Federal Government and its members have not made it easy. We have assumed our responsibility, especially the Federal Chancellor and I. And what we are presenting to you today is the compromise of the coalition that was possible. It's not a black budget, it's not a red budget, it's a red-white-red budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I will be voting for this budget, and with me the entire federal government. It is also the budget of the Federal Government – and not the budget of the Minister of Finance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 2010 was also a challenging year for me personally. I had done a lot for 2010, more – I say quite openly – than in one year in this constellation is obviously possible. We have achieved quite a few things. We are very successful in the fight against crises. For the first time, we have presented a budget plan for four years, and today we will also decide on the transparency account here in the House. In implementing major structural reforms, however, we are still at the beginning of the work. We have negotiated a lot in recent weeks and months and we have expected a lot, but I have also learned a lot in recent weeks and months about coalitions and compromises, about reliability and responsibility, about expectations and disappointments and also about justice and honesty. [[Call at the FPÖ: Who?]] The postponement of the budget, ladies and gentlemen, has proved to be economically reasonable, and it will certainly always be controversial politically. We know that the government has not been able to meet all expectations, and I also know that I myself may not have been able to fulfill all the hopes, but – and this also says the experience of the last eight years in the Federal Government – we will learn the right lessons from it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the self-hypnosis you are doing?]] We will deal with these challenges, which we face, which are not smaller, but larger, with determination and strong will. With this budget, ladies and gentlemen, we lay the foundation for the way out of Austria's debt traps, a solid foundation for political work and the future of the country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If I say “we” I would like to thank a few people who have especially supported us. First among the employees of the Federal Ministry of Finance: Thank you for a professional, tireless work in the lawmaking of this budget! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is also the two State Secretarys at the Ministry of Finance, Reinhold Lopatka and Andreas Schieder, which I would like to thank very much. Previously, I spoke of reliability and responsibility: She's alive! Thank you for your work, too! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to refer to this here in the House: We already created the strong foundation for our budget in the spring of this year: with the Federal Financial Framework 2011 to 2014. We have decided unanimously on this budgetary reform in this House. We have thus enabled binding medium-term budget planning with fixed expenditure limits. The debate in the European Union on the improved budget rules shows how much Austria is pioneering internationally with this budgetary reform. Austria, Sweden and the Netherlands are constantly being recognized as a model for a prudent, strict and consistent budget planning. It will be discussed in the European Union to make these spending limits the general standard. I would therefore like to thank the political groups in this House for their support for this historical project, which we have succeeded together. It was decided the right way, there are the necessary answers for our country. This federal financial framework has already held in 2009, in the most difficult budgetary year since long, despite the most adverse circumstances, even in this year. We already know this when we light up the year 2010: The financial framework will hold, and the 2011 budget also shows that this will be the case in the third year of its existence. The financial framework has thus proved to be a true stability anchor and has contributed significantly to the international presence of only a few countries – only a few of them! – count with the best credit quality. Austria is a member of the European League. These stability anchors illustrate two figures: First: We will save a total of €8.1 billion over the next few years than any other federal government before. And second: Over the next four years, we will thus save ourselves additional interest for the settlement of our debt of almost €4 billion. Without our measures we propose, €9 billion would initially have been to be paid for 2011, with our budget plan only €7.7 billion – interest which we obtain free to invest in the future of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What are the key points we have identified, and what does the Federal Government propose for further discussion and decision-making? Based on the original planning in spring, we can reduce the re-indebtedness even faster and more decisively. Originally, a deficit reduction to 2.5 percent was planned in 2014. Now we reach a value of 2.2 percent. This is an advantage for Austria of € 800 million. Why can we speed up consolidation? First: It supports us with a very good, positive economic development because we have put in place the right measures in the crisis in the government. The export winner of Austria and the adaptability of the companies on the second side showed their effect in the crisis. We are back on the road of economic recovery and growth. Similarly, private consumption has not been reduced during the crisis, quite the contrary. The tax reduction measures have paid off. This shows that the overall policy on both sides of the scale, entrepreneurship and in the area of location, as well as in private consumption, has taken the right action. Finally, we have a very low unemployment rate in Austria. The flexibility of employers in the crisis – and thanks for that too! – has made a decisive contribution. Every unemployed person is too much. We can therefore never be satisfied, but we can say proudly that we are at the top of Europe in the point that people are probably the most moving. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This development can make us optimistic, but it also clearly shows: Growth is the most effective lever to overcome the crisis, reduce debt and secure the future. Two years of the legislative period we now have behind us, three more in front of us. If we are as successful in using the upswing as in recent years of crisis management, we can look more optimistic than ever to the future for Austria. We also want to launch a turn in negative debt development by 2014. This change must not only affect the covenant itself, but also extra-budget debt. Today's euro and state crisis is a crisis of ever more rapid and ever-growing public debt. We must therefore get under control of public debt. The average government debt in the euro area increases to more than 84 percent this year, to more than 86 percent next year. Where are we compared? – We will be around 70 percent this year, i.e. 10 percentage points below the EU average. Next year, with this budget presented today, we will be in debt ratios of just over 71 percent, then already 17 percentage points better than the average debt in the euro area. The European Commission estimates that the average debt in the European Union will be up to 2015 – and this is not a reputation! – increase to more than 100 percent of economic performance. In Austria, with our budget, debt will already fall again in 2014 to a value of 72.5 percent. A third lower than the average in the European Union! If we are proud of the achieved and we continue this course together, then Austria is more successful than others! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, in the budget we can carry out such major cost reductions, which is crucial: Debts eat up the future, and interest is money for the past. Those who confess to debt reduction must also confess to savings. Everything else is unreasonable in the political debate and unfair to taxpayers. Only the way out of the debt trap is the way to more political scope for the future of the country. If Austria were to lose only one level of credit, this would provide us with up to €1.3 billion of interest costs by 2014. There you can see how delicate the issue of assessment, seriousness and budget planning is to be taken. If the credit rating goes back, we pay €1.3 billion in interest costs at one stroke more. That is why it is important and alternatively not to discuss this budget, but then to decide. Only the interest payments that taxpayers already have to make annually are about as high as the sum we spend on our schools, on the education of our children. They exceed the environmental budget by 10 times or by 3.5 times the cost of security. Each taxpayer applies an average of €1 100 per year only for the interest of our national debt – and this does not mean that there is yet a euro in debt. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was Finance Minister? Shut up, Molterer!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] These are means, ladies and gentlemen, that we pay to our creditors without benefit for people. No one has anything but international speculators of these interest payments. The credit quality of Austria must therefore also be the benchmark for me as Minister of Finance – not my current popularity or opinion polls. If Austria loses in the rating, it costs us all billions if I fall back on opinion polls, it is, honestly, my problem and not the problem of Austria. I know what I'm talking about in these hours and days, but I also know what I've decided to do. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We need fewer believers and more faith, faith in us and our abilities and possibilities. That is why my principle is, and that should be our common principle: less debt, less interest, more for Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally and finally – and this is very important to me personally – we are primarily rehabilitating expenditure. We have decided: 60 percent by saving, 40 percent by making revenue, i.e. taxes, on the total cake. We were able to keep this ratio not only, but also improve over the next four years in favour of savings and thus in favour of taxpayers: from 63.4 percent in 2011 to 68.2 percent in 2014. Before you think about extra taxes, you have to save and get on the cost brake, and we did that. In general, the Federal Budget 2011 provides expenditure of around €70.1 billion and revenue of almost €62.6 billion. These are the numbers and the cornerstones. The result is a re-indebtedness of about € 7.6 billion. In the Maastricht demarcation, a general government downturn of around 3.2 percent of economic performance is expected; the general government debt ratio increases from around 70 to 71.3 percent of gross domestic product. The way to achieve these values in the years 2011 to 2014 has taken the federal government together and each minister's responsibility. A significant part of the savings is also achieved in the federal administration. We have adopted more than 80 individual measures to optimize our administrative structure and greater performance efficiency. In total, through the savings in the federal administration, we will achieve contributions to the consolidation of between 150 and almost 300 million € in 2011 and 2014. In total, we will save 2 000 planning sites by 2014. We save at the vehicle park, in the IT area, we save in the infrastructure of the federal administration. We expand e-government and electronic access and thus also save on postal charges through electronic delivery and electronic file runs – thus making a very clear signal. The accusation, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Government would only save on others – you can see from this data – is not entitled. It starts with the fact that politics saves and contributes to itself as everyone else does. [[Abg. Bucher: You can see this with the ads you turn on!]] This concerns all of us here in the House: The Party and the Party Academy funding decrease by 7 percent by 2014. Each ministry also sets out reform measures and has to comply with the budgetary limits. I can now come to the most important aspects of the individual Federal Ministries. The economy of the 2011 budget begins with the Federal Chancellery. Expenditure fell by 2.6 percent to about €336 million compared to the 2010 estimate. Despite this saving rate, the promotion of women has been maintained, so that the financial security of intervention agencies and the centres of violence and the women's services has succeeded. We reduce media co-operation and the grant to distributed legal entities, such as Statistics Austria. In 2011, the Federal Ministry of Finance itself reduces its expenditure by €738 million or 3.5 percent to €20.3 billion. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Minister of Advertising!]] The 2011 budget shows the continuation of consistent personnel policies and the continuation of innovative reforms, such as the transfer of personnel. Everyone is talking about the administrative reform – we are living it! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] With a strategic approach to combating fraud through the establishment of the financial police, entrepreneurship is protected and tax evasion is firmly combated! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the Federal Ministry of the Interior. Internal security is of particular importance to people and therefore to the government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy!]] People expect safety, and they also have a right to it. We are effectively fighting crime, which has fallen by 10 percent since last year. We spend about €2.35 billion for security. The measures taken in the department range from the establishment of its own Federal Office for Migration and Asylum to the redesign and charging of security checks at airports. The budget of the Foreign Office amounts to €427 million in 2011. This is about € 14 million or 3.1 percent less than the 2010 Federal estimates. In order to achieve this saving, a streamlining of the Austrian representation network abroad will be necessary on the one hand and, unfortunately, – we have already seen it today – a reduction in Austrian development cooperation. [[Abg. Scheibner: A declaration of bankruptcy is that, a foreign policy!]] [[Further calls to BZÖ and Greens.]] The Federal Ministry of Justice has around €1.15 billion in expenditure in the coming financial year and thus 16 million or 1.4 percent less than in 2010. In order to ensure that freedom of access to law and legal certainty continue to be ensured, a number of reform measures of the judicial system should be used to relieve the burden and to improve procedures in the judicial administration. We also abolish non-negotiable time in courts to increase efficiency and improve access to justice. In the judicial administration, an instance will be dismantled, in the interpreter pool of the courts and in its experts, optimizations will take place. In 2011, the Federal Ministry of State Defense has a total expenditure of almost €2.2 billion. This allows the service to continue to be ensured by the implementation of structural streamlining in the administration and the urgent procurement and construction projects. Furthermore, it will also be possible in 2011 to benefit from exceptional sales proceeds for properties which can also be sold in the course of the military reform. In the sport, the novel to the gambling law 2010 succeeded in freeing additional budget resources for the promotion of Austrian top sports. In 2011, the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Consumer Protection has expenditures of around €17.9 billion and thus almost 340 million more than foreseen in the federal proposal. This increase is largely due to the very dynamic expenditure on pensions. For me, however, a fundamental dimension of justice is also generation justice. The present generation must not live at the expense of its children and grandchildren. I also called for this in the course of the discussions on budgetary consolidation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have therefore made important changes in order to dampen the cost explosion in pensions. The long-term insurance scheme will be applied from 1 January. In January 2014, a transitional scheme was redesigned. The age of access to the hacker scheme is increased in a step to 62 years for men and 57 years for women, then gradually to 62 years. The accountability of replacement times is restricted. We can thus significantly slow down the cost development. Even before 2013, the hackler regulation will be saved. Due to the increase in school and study periods and the introduction of the charge-paying after-sales replacement periods, almost €40 million of costs will be reduced over the next three years. The crucial point for me that we reached during the negotiations last weekend: The hackler regulation is not incorporated into the permanent right, but remains a transitional right and is thus a run-out model. The invalidity pension is re-established. The principle applies: Rehabilitation before pension! The number of accesses to the invalidity pension is to be reduced by 10 percent. In the care sector – an important central cornerstone of work in the Federal Government – there is a change in the conditions for access to the same care allowance for the first two stages of care. At the same time, the care allowance level 6 is increased. Thus, the Federal Government deliberately sets a mark in budgetaryly difficult times in order to strengthen the support of those who are particularly needy in our society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Federal Ministry of Health has around € 868 million in 2011 available to the Federal Ministry of Health. This is 12.6 percent less than 2010. A significant part of this return is based on an adaptation to the health insurance fund, which we continue to donate with €40 million. This continues to provide financial incentives to optimize the health system. I will then come back to this factor in the offensive measures. In contrast to most other ministries in 2011 the two educational resorts will have a higher budget than in 2010. This is due to the fact that from the beginning the Federal Government has imposed a lower consolidation share on education and research than on the other budget areas: a clear commitment to the future of our children's education. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: That is, “cuts ”!]] In addition, there are not only fewer cuts, we have also planned offensive measures and additional funds in these three areas – education of our children, research and innovation and also universities. For the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture 2011 expenditures of around € 7.7 billion are available. Within the framework of these funds, a focus can be set on extending full-day care in compulsory schools and thus improving the compatibility of work and family on the basis of the basic principle of freedom of choice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget will also enable the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25 in the field of general education to be carried on successfully. The programme “Teaching with Matura” will continue accordingly. The Federal Ministry of Science and Research can increase its budget expenditure in 2011 to around €3.8 billion and focus on universities and colleges with the means of offensive funding. While the aim is to improve teaching and research at universities, additional places are created in the field of higher education. More resources are also available for the promotion of studies, with a view to avoiding cases of hardship that may arise from the consolidation measures in the family sector. At just under €3.1 billion, the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology can significantly increase its resources compared to 2010 to finance the necessary transport infrastructure projects. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true at all! There are debt – ÖBB, ASFINAG!]] This will also implement important large-scale construction projects – albeit with a certain delay in time – and send a signal for forward-looking public transport. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is a printed lie!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The agricultural and environmental sector, ladies and gentlemen, can keep its expenditure close to €3 billion. We have focused on the financing of projects in rural development and the urban water industry. With these budget data in agriculture and environmental policy, we can meet and meet our environmental and climate protection plans. [[Abg. New builder: But really not!]] While the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and Youth does not receive the donation of the medium-sized funds from federal funds, the funding of thermal rehabilitation is re-estimated in the economic and environmental sectors with €50 million each. The Federal Government thus sends an important signal for a very, very successful funding rail in the past. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would then like to address the planned measures in the promotion of families. The families of Austria are also affected by savings, and we have not made it easy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] However, we are all jointly responsible for the next generations. [[Abg. Bucher: “Family Party” ÖVP!]] Our greatest task, therefore, is not to hand over any public debt and solid state finances to the generations that are to come. It's nothing more responsible than putting a debt backpack on our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Who has caused government debt for the last 24 years? That's you!]] We need to keep in mind the financial situation of the family compensation fund. [[Abg. New builder: The parents can no longer afford to have children!]] Only if we use our forces together can we guarantee family benefits in the future. The Fund currently has a debt of €3.9 billion. And with the proposed measures, we can also maintain its capacity for the future. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have originally decided to reduce the period of entitlement to family allowances, to delete the single-earner discount for families without children and the income-dependent multiple-child supplement. On all three points – and I understood and understood the unrest in the discussion on the points – we have calmed down the hardships after intensive discussions with interested parties, with the family associations and intensive negotiations in the coalition. For the multi-child families, the income-dependent supplement with 20 € instead of 36 € remained – originally 0 € planned. Pensioners with a pension up to 1 155 € per month remain the single-earner discount amount. In the case of family allowances: The removal excludes the courses of study, which last ten semesters and longer, and the students who do not exceed the minimum duration of study. In addition, the contribution limit for students in the family allowance was increased from € 9 000 to € 10 000. So in this package, we took back €55 million a year from the planned savings, without leaving our budget targets as a whole. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The 13th. Family aid will be available from the sixth to the 15th century. Year of life with a flat-rate amount of €100 – as in September – paid as school start-up fee for school-based children. We also relieve families with school-based children – this will be forgotten! – by abolishing the retention of schoolbooks. As a family father, I quite understand the discussion and criticism of these measures. Still, I'm on it. Because I could not account for my children to accept ever-increasing debt and thus carry even greater problems into the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What have you done in the government for the last 24 years?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government and the Länder have agreed on a process that brings with it essential reform impulses in the field of administration and saves a lot of costs. Administrative reform occurs daily at all levels of management in small: Structures are simplified, standards harmonised, planning sites are not re-occupied. And not everything – I understand that – is being discussed in the media, which is a success. For example, with the project “Deregulation”, we have realized a clear administrative simplification in federal law. It will significantly reduce the administrative burden not only in the administrations of the countries implementing these laws, but also among citizens and businesses. In concrete terms, we are already implementing 40 measures in the various administrative areas for 2011; more than 250 measures are negotiated and implemented with the countries in 2011 and 2012. I invite the countries to step up their administrative reform on the basis of these federal deregulation steps. In this context, I would also like to remind you: The Federal Government is making an important contribution to the reduction of bureaucracy for the economy with the “administrative costs for businesses”. Today we will reach our first intermediate goal, which allows the company to save more than € 560 million. In addition to the expenditure side, we have also had to focus on revenue, which I now want to address. Two principles were in the foreground, and we also enforced them in hard negotiations: First: Work must pay off, and property must not be punished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have therefore prevented property taxes as a burden on the middle class and the working people in that country. Taxation of the asset would draw people's hard-earned money out of their pockets and would also hinder the formation of ownership of the middle class. That is why we say yes to the removal of tax loopholes and to the elimination of tax evasions, but no to a property tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, We have considered Austria's location attractive for companies and thus secured jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: Food tax introduce! That's how it looks!]] Tax policy is an essential factor in the quality and attractiveness of our site. We have set the right signs and also prevented false softing. We have considered and discussed every burden together for a long time. The decisions were not easy, but we have achieved a balanced package. With the bank's stability levy, we will take €500 million annually. We do not want, and this is also an internal focus, to burden smaller and medium-sized regional institutions at all or less. So we're not taxing savings and the customer's assets, but we're taxing speculative products. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you only believe that! You also believe in the Christkind!]] At this point also a clear word: The Austrian banks are not the culprits of this crisis. Austria's taxpayers have fought the crisis with billions of capital and liabilities and have also stabilised banks – and that was right – but the stability of our banks is not a punishment, ladies and gentlemen, it is a sign of solidarity. That is right in this situation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In return, we act actively and relieve people of the abolition of the credit contract fee. For local small and medium-sized enterprises and the medium-sized, there is a direct relief. Two examples: With a loan of € 100 000, the creditor is granted 800 €. Especially among families – medium-sized investments, apartments, houses and others – this is an important sign. With an investment loan in the medium-sized economy of €5 million, the savings are almost €35 000. This is a real, important signal for families, SMEs and our business location. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also not possible to see why the hard working people in our country are taxed disproportionately higher than short-term profits on the financial markets. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Therefore, realised securities gains will be subject to the 25 percent capital income tax in the future and the one-year retention period will fall. Why should savings account holders be made worse than shareholders with short-term profit expectations? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, we do not raise taxes, but we raise a tax advantage in the sale of securities and correct an existing wrong. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Not affected by it, my dear Ladies and gentlemen – and this is an important point! – are measures of age and future provision. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I've always stressed: All will have to make their contribution to budget recovery, including private foundations. In addition to raising the intermediate tax rate to 25 percent, property profits will be taxed in the future if the founder is a capital company. Budget consolidation is a common national effort to which each individual must contribute. But we must not forget: In particular, private foundations contribute a lot to our society. In the social field in particular, numerous foundations are active in the service of the common good, and also for art and culture – in sponsoring and in support – they play an important role. They are also an engine for the domestic economic and investment location and secure jobs. We can also discuss how, in future, we are moving together with foundations in order to give clear signs of support even in development cooperation or wherever possible. We need to be careful here. We are aware of the importance of foundations, but we are also aware that they have a contribution to make to fiscal consolidation for the Austrian site. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If we are already talking about new taxes, there is also an important access to consolidation for me, a second important aspect: the objective of ecologisation. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now we are excited! Yes, about which one?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: No new taxes, it's called! Central sentence!]] For me, ecologisation means taxation of limited resources with the aim of moving ahead with steering effects on the environment and climate protection. If it is tax, ladies and gentlemen, then it makes sense. Climate and environmental protection and the safeguarding of natural resources are not only a moral obligation for us, but also a question of economic reason and necessity. Only by handling and investing wisely and sustainably with our environment today can we guarantee long-term quality of life for the coming generations. Especially in the further greening of the tax system there are great opportunities that we want to benefit from in the sense of new growth. Each tenth percent of growth creates prosperity and jobs. The aim was therefore to include the environmental damage of certain energy sources in the calculation of the tax – environmental pollution also as a factor for the tax burden – and this was successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, we introduce a ticket charge, increase the CO2 surcharge for new vehicles that are above certain emission limits, and adjust the mineral oil tax with 4 cents per litre for petrol and 5 cents per litre diesel to their ecological effects. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The drivers...!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are also fighting hardships. The people who depend on their car for the way to the workplace are visibly relieved. As a compensation for the increase in mineral oil tax, the flat rate will be increased by 10 percent and will be spent 30 million € per year. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: They get from 10 € that you take away, 1 € back!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] In addition, we now create our own job ticket. We thus promote public transport and contribute to climate change and environmental protection. The energy tax allowance...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5813	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt for a moment! It's an incredibly high noise level here. [[Abg. Kickl: That's no wonder!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If so much nonsense is softened!]] If the audience at home is to understand Mr. Finanzminister, but also individual calls, we also need higher discipline in the hall. Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5853	The energy levy on service companies will be abolished, so that we comply with the Court of Auditors' recommendation. In terms of health, we also call for a contribution from those who cause higher costs to the health system and therefore increase tobacco tax. Finally, we expect more revenue from the anti-fraud package I presented in summer. Tax and tax fraud leads to distortions of competition and harms the economy as well as any individual who has to provide higher tax performance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you pay taxes, don't be stupid, ladies and gentlemen. That is the principle. That is why we are calling on organised economic crime to fight. The fight against fraud means more fairness, more equal opportunities and more protection for the Austrian workers. With the anti-fraud package, we take the responsibility of those who have benefited from our system so far without introducing their honest taxation in return. Of course: With the increase of taxes, no one has joy – and you don't make friends like you hear! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Go, really?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why do you know that?]] But let's look at what this year's new and higher taxes were proposed and demanded – and what remains of them! It's much less. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And who promised, there are no new taxes? You!]] Mr Westenthaler, let us look at what has been decided in Greece, England, Ireland and Portugal. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do we want to compare?]] And let us also look at what is on the table in Germany about savings measures! Germany is not the child of concern, but the economic engine of Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Then we see: We are good at comparing ourselves with most European countries. We are on the right track, and we can measure ourselves with the strongest economies. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Next time you compare us with Djibouti!]] The budget is not just the numbering work for politics, it is also a reflection of political priorities. Through the consistent implementation of the consolidation package, we have also created sufficient scope for offensive measures. We want to make use of the upturn, create growth and strengthen Austria. From 2011, additional €400 million are available annually for a future package, with which we want to focus on future-oriented, sustainable, new growth. The future package therefore contains the following key points: 100 million € for research and innovation, 100 million € for thermal renovation, 80 million € for universities, 80 million € for our schools, 40 million € for our health system. This is a sum of €400 million a year. This is a total package of €1.6 billion by 2014. Research and innovation ensure the competitiveness of the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is why we are also putting forward-looking measures here and investing €100 million annually in applied research and innovation. The tax research premium is increased from 8 to 10 percent, costs us € 80 million a year, but brings back a lot. The research premium is an important central location factor. Especially in international, also intra-group competition, it is important to provide the right incentives to keep companies in Austria. In addition, we will also provide additional resources for the basic programmes of the research promotion society. I have already mentioned the thermal renovation – an important project that can lead to several successes, a triple-dividing project, so to speak. We increase on the one hand living quality, reduce operating costs and trigger investment of € 700 million. We secure sustainable jobs in the construction industry, around 5,000 jobs are created or secured, and we make a significant contribution to climate protection by reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A central component of our future package is the annual 80 million € offensive funds for universities and universities. Every tax euro invested in higher education and science is a euro more towards a better future. On the one hand, we invest in more quality in higher education even through better study conditions. This will be €20 million in the next two years for both mass subjects and important technical – and we will have a major focus on them. This is a strong impulse, which can give a substantial impetus to improving the conditions of the environment, particularly in these highly sought-after and economic areas. Secondly, For the integration of excellent non-university research institutions into universities, €12 million a year are planned, with approximately €10 million per year for the expansion of specialist universities. A maximum of €12 million will be made available for the re-start of university overhead financing in the context of research funding and a total of €144 million for the 2013-2015 service agreement of universities as a reserve to help universities secure their workforce. As a result of the meeting of university rectors and students, the chancellor, the Minister of Science and I have agreed with the rectors that a new model of study ground financing must be pursued. This new path in higher education policy and funding is to be rewarded. More transparent funding on the one hand, but also regulated study development on the other, are the challenges to be solved in the next few months. Especially in times of economic and financial challenges, it is essential for a country's society as a whole to promote education and training for all children and young people. We make 80 million € annually available for this purpose. To meet the requirements and changed social, family and social conditions at the beginning of the 21st century. In any case, to keep pace with the century, further developments of the existing school system are also necessary. It is a necessary extension of afternoon care to schools according to the principle of freedom of choice for better compatibility between work and family. The Austrian health system is world-class, but it is also expensive. To dampen the cost development in health insurance, last year we tied up a health insurance recovery package that sets out a binding cost damping path. In total, more than €1.7 billion will be saved. To date, the Cash Fund has proved itself to be an efficient and targeted management instrument. It will continue to be taught at €40 million annually. With the 2011 budget and the setting of the spending and revenue benchmarks for the next four years, we have created a solid foundation for Austria. And if we discuss this budget in the next few days, we always have to be clear: The 2011 budget is on the table, but it is more about our responsibility to the Republic of Austria. And this responsibility goes far beyond the present budgetary period and the next election. In particular, there are three points where I see the great, far-reaching challenges to our work. First: Social change. Secondly, The modernisation of our administration and structures. And thirdly, The modernisation of our tax system. Just as the questions of the budget and the rehabilitation of our state finances require a clear look at reality, so this clear view of reality is necessary for social and demographic change as well. There's a good news: People get older and older. There's a bad news: The number of contributors is becoming less and less. The proportion of young people and thus of people of working age is falling. The proportion of older people and therefore pensioners is increasing. Today, about 1.9 million people are over 60 years old in Austria. In 2030 it will be 2.8 million, 50 percent more than today, and in 2050 3.2 million, 70 percent more than today. This results in massive need for action in all systems of our welfare state. I give examples of pensions and care. The state grant to the pension system will rise by around €2 billion over the next four years, from €9 to €11.4 billion. That's a huge cost dynamics. And if this continues, we will have to have a permanent high-cost in the future only to be able to finance the pension system. The discussions and decisions that we have been preparing in recent weeks and months are therefore only the beginning of a debate that will define the political agenda in the coming years. How can we ensure the financing of our social systems? How do we achieve the balance between generations? What answers do we give to demographic change in all its facets? This also includes the important issue of migration and integration with everything there is to offer in terms of opportunities and potential, and all the problems that this entails. I am therefore glad that soon the introduction of a red and white red card will enable orderly immigration. Thanks to the Minister of the Interior and the social partners, this important project has been launched in this very sensitive and important area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another topic that moves more and more people and affects more and more families is the topic of care. We all know that care needs will increase significantly in the coming years, and that demands us. This development is currently suffering mainly from the municipalities of the country, which can hardly cope with the financial costs of the increase. There is an urgent need for action. We are aware of the fact that we have a contribution to make to the solution of the problem, and therefore I, as the Minister of Finance, which I am responsible for it. But I also expect the countries and stakeholders themselves to be willing to contribute to this. We can get a solution here. We want to press the pace and talk over the next few weeks in order to send important signals for the caregivers, for this important topic and also for our communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People rightly expect us to modernise the structures of our Republic and also to make the future fit. They rightly expect us to combine the strengths of modern federalism with the possibilities of meaningful centralization. First, however, we need to link a new stability pact with the federal states for Austria. I am confident that we will be a step further before the end of the year. The experience of recent months has shown that we need a common objective in general for the stability of our budget and for Austria. The third major challenge I face as Minister of Finance is the modernisation of our tax system. In recent weeks, we have all experienced how many stakeholders there are and how loud they speak. But there is a group of interests that I feel committed as Minister of Finance, who does not have such a strong lobby, they are taxpayers. [[Abg. Bucher: They're kicking you!]] The taxpayers have a right to handle their tax money honestly and sparingly. They have a right to a tax system which is not only described by politics as fair, but also considered fair by them themselves. It must be sound, it must be socially fair, it must become family-friendly, it must be generation-friendly and also practical. Whoever pays taxes, once again, must not be stupid! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The tax system must also be timely, transparent and understandable. A comprehensive structural reform can relieve both taxpayers and tax administration. I would like to see a clearer, simpler tax system. I will pursue this objective consistently in the next few years as Minister of Finance. We all have to tackle this difficult task together, and we must not play out one group against the other: those who today carry on their work in that country, and those who depend on paying taxes today, and those who have to pay taxes tomorrow. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2009 will be the year of fighting a global economic crisis in the yearbooks. With unprecedented dimensions of state support and instruments, we have prevented the worst. The almost expired year 2010 will be the year of stabilizing our currency and our finances. With a solid budget, we have fulfilled our homework and can now face the challenges ahead. As Minister of Finance, I could say, of course: Okay, with the presentation of this budget, the work is done. But for me and for us, she's actually starting right now. I therefore outlined three key challenges for me. Let me now mention the objectives that should be at the heart of my work and of our work. I want Austria to be at the top of Europe in five points: First: We work together to ensure that we remain at the top of the labour market in Europe! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Austria is one of the countries with the lowest unemployment. Secondly, Together we ensure that we remain at the forefront of growth in Europe! Only by this can we guarantee prosperity and recovery. To do this, we need the economic performance of all, and not less the tax performance. Only where prosperity is created can there be welfare. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An attractive economic location in Austria with a competitive fiscal and financial policy and its export-oriented entrepreneurship is the key to this growth. Our role as the strongest investor in Central and South-East Europe is a central force in this, which must be kept and expanded. We are working – third – to push forward in research and development to the top of Europe by 2020! As far as the research rate is concerned, we are already in third place before Germany, but with other parameters we are not yet so far. According to Eurostat, 56 percent of Austrian companies are innovative, with almost 80 percent in Germany. This potential to the top needs to be exploited and expanded. Let us – fourth – make sure that we continue to be among the most family-friendly countries in Europe, even if we had to make painful decisions this year! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a cynicism!]] Austria does more for its families than any other country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: With the highest tax, you have to say that!]] Now it is about that we are not only in the front of the cash benefits, but also in the structures we are in favour of the family of the 21st century. ==References== Freedom of choice and compatibility of work and family are central issues. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Finally, let us take together – fifth – that Austria is one of the countries with the most solid state finances in Europe! All our plans and objectives for Austria can only be implemented if we have the necessary financial scope for them. Only with a consistent reduction in debt do we deal responsibly with the coming generations. Only by doing so will we get out of debt and save ourselves deep cuts, like the other countries that people in other countries are experiencing painfully. We must not live permanently over our conditions and operate under our possibilities. There's no way through the savings. Making debt is unsocial. [[Abg. Bucher: You are unsocial! You're making debts!]] It is the most socially weak, and we see that upland, downland in Europe, which then suffers most when countries fall into debt crises. Making debt is unfair in the sense of generation justice, because it also shifts the loads from one generation to the next. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: These were tremors!]] I would like to say to all those who criticise this government three figures which show what we are talking about here and how much we are moving together. We save as much as no federal government before: 8.1 billion in expenditure by 2014. And because we save so much, we can save €4 billion of threatening interest. And we invest 1.6 billion in our future package. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Financial policy is never alone the goal of politics, but always the means of successful, responsible policy. My responsibility as a Minister of Finance and our responsibility as a Federal Government is therefore to keep an eye on the whole. We must make a financial policy for the country that is sustainable, a financial policy that benefits and does not harm people in our country in the long term, a policy that does not destroy jobs, a policy that does not plunge us into a debt crisis like other countries, a policy that promotes growth – in short, a policy that creates a solid foundation for the future of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us discuss this budget in all clarity and hardness in the next few days, and you will take care of it! [[Abg. Bookbooker: You've really recognized that!]] The real assessment of this budget will not be possible until the next few years. I am referring to the debate that is beginning today, and I am also referring to the judgment that the facts and figures will be talking about this budget in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6178	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for the statement. The budget will be discussed tomorrow at first reading. [[Abg. Ing. We want Molterer back!]] [[10:19:11]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (940 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on a database of transparency (TDBG) (1000 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6213	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Strache, President-in-Office of the Council. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6243	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Our country is facing many problems, and, of course, the transparency database will not entirely pass the current budget speech of Mr Vice-Chancellor, but one of our biggest problems in this country is this federal government. Unfortunately, God can be found and asserted today with fug and justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a federal government that we are experiencing as a collection of ladies and gentlemen, who can basically only manage mercilessly, do not live any innovation at all – and have no courage at all when it comes to really taking the reform steps that would be necessary in this country, namely a necessary structural and administrative reform. We will, of course, address this in detail in the budget debate tomorrow, but it is this inconsistency of the Federal Government that accompanies us everywhere. Lethargy, lack of ideas and inactivity, but also in the area of the transparency database: For the present transparency database law, which only allows the beneficiaries, but not the authorities, access to the data, cannot do anything from the point of view of the Freedom Party. There's been a lot of announcement. It was a good and right idea to finally ensure a transparency database in order to prevent multi-tracks in order to prevent the mis-economy in order to prevent double and triple disbursements in order to finally make justice possible in this country. But then go in the end and do no more and no less than create additional administration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is completely absurd, Mr Vice-Chancellor. This is a purely money destruction action, and in reality it is an transparency database, but not a transparent one. In the future, the design will continue to be opaque and nothing else will be behind it. Information on related services, which citizens can now obtain, corresponds to the information available to everyone on the data of their current account. There's no added value at all. However, the Federal Government must also negotiate and conclude an Article 15a agreement with each federal state in order for the federal states to be able to transmit all data sets to the transparency database at all. There is no added value, however, because the authorities actually do not have a real availability of this data and can use it. That's half a solution that doesn't bring anything to anyone. In reality, this will no longer, and no less, try to create more bureaucracy, to re-establish the administrative burden. Instead of implementing an administrative reform, one goes here and makes the administration even more complicated and complex. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you are always able to meet all the negative expectations you have to meet again and again, yes, partly even exceed. It's really interesting to judge this in the last few weeks and months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today's budget speech has also been such a negative expectation that you have fulfilled, yes, even surpassed. There is one thing that has become transparent, that you do not know how to proceed. This has become transparent during your budget speech today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have a print error on the first page of your 2011 budget speech. There it says: ‘The word spoken applies.’ So if, then, it would have to be there, it's the broken word, what you've been living and confirming today. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Then it goes on where you say here on the second page: “The last days and hours were marked by two challenges that have marked the whole year: Work on the budget. The stabilisation of the euro.’ We can only say that both of them have failed properly, Mr Vice-Chancellor! [[Abg. Hornek: This is your Carinthian bank!]] It's a banking mismanagement that protects you today, but the people that kick you out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a banking mismanagement that protects you, which will cost you billions of our taxpayers in the form of bank packages, but then the own population will fall. – This is exactly the growth of your budget. If you're talking about debt reduction, please, do you want to betroth the citizens of Austria? Who has been in the Federal Government for the last 24 years? – The Austrian People's Party! For 24 years [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is constantly in this Federal Government. In 1990, when you, your party, were already in this Federal Government, we had a government debt of €76 billion. How many are today? – Today it is 197 billion! Yes, who is responsible for this approximately €120 billion in additional debt in recent years? – Your Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But then make yourself and talk about saving, of responsibility, of not wanting to make politics on the back of our children?- Oh, my God! – That’s last-class! There you have to feel like an Austrian citizen when you make politics with such floskels here today, although you are responsible for the highest government debt in this Second Republic, because you will make further debts and because we will be heading towards €9-10 billion in interest payments per year through your irresponsible policy because you are not willing to implement a state and administrative reform. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] This is your responsibility, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to stick to the truth and give people pure wine and not talk about it in floskels, as you do and have finally presented it in writing in this budget. This budget – and this has always been held in recent years – is a programme of this government cast in figures. A programme of figures, in which you can really prove and prove the wrong direction on the basis of the facts and facts I have just set out to you. A muffled flicking work where ultimately your content is very, very unfair and also dangerous for the country, because you are finally running a hole-up and-hole-to-policy rather than really attacking the roots of the problem in Austria in the area of your red-black proportion. But that's exactly what you are protecting, and that's exactly what you've been living and making transparent today, Minister of Finance, that you're helpless and overwhelmed. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Stop it!]] That's the reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why you're looting your own population. That's where you play the hard man. Play Against Your Own Population You are the hard man, but towards the European Union you are the softie. There's kneading and kissing. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Hello?! A little courteous, please!]] As a result, net contributions are paid indirectly to Brussels, even directly to our taxpayers in Turkey. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Stop it!]] Here you go and pay billions of euros for the banks with our Austrian taxpayers when it comes to the Greece package. Then the new protective shield for the Irish will be grandly opened up, which may also be coming soon, as will the further liability package for Greece. [[Abg. Neubauer: Without a public survey!]] Please be honest! Those countries that do not comply with the euro must go back to their old currencies, otherwise they will lead us into a financial downfall, otherwise this European Union will lead us into hyperinflation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must finally be ready to rethink and not try to keep artificially a euro zone alive, which is no longer viable with these economies in Greece, Ireland, Portugal or Spain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must finally make the truth possible and also have the courage to tell the truth. That's exactly what we need to experience. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We are experiencing a dramatic crisis, which has also come about through your EU patience. That must be called by name, and there we liberals are the only counterweight in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6439	Ladies and gentlemen! Before Mrs Tamandl starts speaking, I should like to draw your attention once again: The sound level is really incredibly high and the spectators at home have nothing of this transmission, if not a higher discipline. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The ORF...!]] Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6473	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If the spectators on the screens have not heard Mr Strache in such detail, I must say that they have not missed much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He has shown again today that he is in fact well removed where he is, namely in the opposition. No ideas for the country, you always want to spend money. You just don't know where to get the money. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The ÖVP Simmering! A success project!]] If you are complaining today about what the Minister of Finance has reported on the budget, I would like to inform you only: [[Abg. Kickl:... 6 percent in Simmering!]] [[Abg. Street: Sure, a success project of the ÖVP!]] We have already passed the Federal Financial Framework Act in May of this year. In this law, we have already decided how the spending limits will be. You come here today, pretending to be the first thing you heard from the budget. I believe that the government has done a good job, even last weekend, because it has dealt with the criticism of family associations and students as well. You also have to take note of this once you are always criticized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I just wonder, Mr Strache, why you did not talk about the transparency database. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: Because he doesn't know himself!]] – Probably because you do not know, the Minister of Finance is whispering to me. [[Abg. Kickl: It's not true at all!]] But I do not think you have anything to do with this at all, because we will have a distribution and performance justice with the transparency database. If you're talking about all this now and if you say the principle was good, but it's bad, how do you want to know that we don't know much better in the next few years? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] For example, the multiple-child supplement: Again and again, it has been criticized that the multi-child supplement should be removed. Now he is not halved, but he will be 20 €. [[Abg. May. Stefan: We are now talking about the transparency database!]] I can tell you what this has to do with the transparency database: We will know in the next few years who has been paid the surplus supplement because we know the people's income exactly and we can see exactly whether the multiple-child supplement has brought to the people something that has 20 000 € of income, which has 30 000 € of income or which have 50 000 € of income. [[Abg. May. Honey: Who will know? Do we know now...?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: You slept the committee!]] The law has been made the same way that we can see that in the future. If Mr Strache says today that people already know what they have in income from their accounts, I can tell you: I am convinced that many people only know what they get net and not what they pay on social security, what they pay on pay tax. Do you know that someone of the 3 000 € gross doesn't even get very 2 000 € net? [[Abg. Strache: Because the money gets into the pockets of the citizens!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Many don't know. They see the € 2 000 on their payroll bill and the other they don't know. I think it's nothing bad if people know exactly: Which taxes do I collect, which social security amounts do I carry out, what transfers have I received in total, what benefits I get and what tax benefits do I receive? I would like to know what to criticise here. We must, of course, bring the countries to this by winning them to feed on their data on promotions and their transfers to this database of transparency, because of course we want to prevent double-tracking. That is what we actually wanted to achieve from home with this database of transparency. If today a citizen wants to come to a promotion or if he wants to request an additional transfer service, it is now so that he often does not know which one he already has, whether he will get any more. [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a Nestroy quiz!]] In the future, he can take an extract, go to the paying place and prove which promotions and what benefits he already relates to. The goal is to achieve success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: 80-year-old grandma!]] It can easily be created using these evaluations parameters of individual services, from which we can read something and get a control, including from politics. Mr Oellinger has the head. In the Committee, he said that he cannot imagine how 80-year-old Grandma can go to a paying post with an extract, because the grandma probably has no Internet access at all. I remember that there was a debate in the Committee on the amendment that it could not be read in time et cetera. But if you had read through some important points, then you would have seen that you might now be able to take your leave at a congregation office, for example, that you can serve yourself. [[Abg. May. Honey: That was the amendment before!]] - Yeah, that doesn't matter. Mrs Schatz, that is why the Committee's work is there, or what are we in the committee for? That we get money for it? – No, that we deal with legislative instruments and that we bring about additional changes and improvements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger, you have said that you can already imagine what it will be like when the extract ends up in the dungdo. – Don’t be angry with me, but what if my account extract ends up in the dung bubble or – I’ve addressed it – an X-ray picture, for example? Every person knows that certain things that have a data protection character must also be disposed of, burned, crushed. What do I know? That is to say, these are arguments that are drawn to the hair just because you don't want to deal with it, because you basically reject it because you reject the need to pay for yourself and that we have to bring about a fair performance in this country. [[Abg. Oils: They weaken themselves!]] That's why you come up with arguments that are quite easily drawn to the hair. As far as the opposition is concerned, I must say that the BZÖ has shot the Bock in the committee at all. The BZÖ was very excited that an amendment that was not even one page long had to be read suddenly. Then they moved out of the Financial Committee, they didn't deal with the law matter a little. Today we have also seen it with you, Mr Strache, you have not even talked about the transparency database in your speech, because you do not know yourself and because you do not want to deal with matter. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not from BZÖ!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are unsuspecting!]] We're working to reduce the number of double conductivity. We work for greater efficiency and we work to ensure sustainable transfers for the families, because that is important to us. If you don't want to deal with that, you're well removed where you are, in opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6752	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6773	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, I know this is your project – and you should be quite ashamed of it. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this “Projekt Pröll” costs us millions of euros – without it even bringing a cent. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I hate to quote, but in this case I have to do it because Mr Westenthaler said in committee that this project is a database of transparency for aliens. The proposal by Mr Westenthal in the committee was, we are no longer talking about it, we are leaving it and we are not saying that there was any such thing. – That would have really been the best for this project transparency database. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You are always for transparency!]] Mr Finanzminister, you say: “They are always for transparency!” – Yes, we are for transparency. But this transparency database has to do with transparency as much as the daylight with the coal cellar – nothing at all! Window is there when you look into this transparency database. I tell you, this is just too grotesque – the citizens and citizens who will claim such extracts will be embarrassed. That is what we have prophesied to you in the committee and what I could read about the more distressed and sad faces of the representatives of the government parties in the committee. See for yourself that way! But no one dares to say anything about it, because it is the wish child of Mr Finanzminister that needs to be made the transparency database – it costs what it wants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Finanzminister, get rid of this project! There will be a request for referral back to committee today. Dispose of this project! It's still going on. Let me tell you once again that this project will not bring transparency. An example: The transparency database also shows the benefits in kind. So if someone has a child who is studying at the university, then the transparency database shows what the university's cost is. [[Abg. Krainer: Even if you have two children!]] That's interesting, because we don't all know what individual studies cost. The Minister of Finance does not know this either, so he makes the milkmaid bill: Expenditure for universities – we say €2 billion – divided by the number of students, then a sum comes out, which is €10 000 or €20 000 a year, and it is presented to the citizen. – This is grotesk, I tell you. This is grotesk, it has absolutely nothing to do with the real costs. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Do you still trust me to present this?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That can't be true!]] Second example: It is also intended to show the costs incurred in the event of illness during a hospital stay. This is not the case with this comical database of transparency, because no body, neither a health insurance institution, nor the federal government, nor a country, is currently able to represent the real costs, the real costs, not just the standardized ones. That's grotesk! There you write some house numbers into what the covenant believes that is spent, then it will be added... [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go, go!]] – Of course! You obviously have less idea than the people who have to administer this professionally, Mr. Finanzminister! [[Abg. Brosz: Absurd!]] Or do you really want to claim that you can represent the cost of a hospital stay? [[The speaker turns to Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] Do you want to say that? Do you really want to say that, Mr. Finanzminister? There's no one, ask your party colleagues! - No, I'm not aggressive at all. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Why are you so aggressive?]] I'm annoyed that you – and only on Your vote – pursuing a project that costs millions of euros that costs us all a lot of money, at least far more than what you want to present in this draft, in this government template in the explanations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's get to the cost! But before that: There have been many bodies that have reviewed the transparency database, but there has been no single body that would have presented the transparency database positively, no positive review. [[Abg. Brosz: Not even the Chamber of Agriculture!]] No matter what, the Minister of Finance, the main thing, my project is being carried out. Should I read to you what the individual posts say? – The country of Styria says: It cannot be fully recognized the meaning and purpose of this legal regulation. The industrial union, that is, your party, says: However, on the basis of the present draft law, there are considerable doubts as to whether the objective can actually be achieved. Municipal government, municipal council, Chamber of Commerce, all, up to the Chamber of Workers, all are negative about this project transparency database. Don't worry, says the Minister of Finance, I wanted this for my birthday, or what I know, this is my government project – the budget is certainly not; we have now experienced enough in the last hour – I also want to have something that I can represent myself with. For me, it is the transparency database, says the Minister of Finance, and I want it. He is appointed to the government parties. They all say, in fact, we can't see it positively either, look into the ground like that, because they can't and don't want to discuss it. I understand. It is also the pitiful thing about this, that a database of transparency that absolutely does not deserve this name, because it really has nothing to do with transparency, as has been said, or has to decide as much as the daylight with the coal cellar, although it is pointless. In that case, costs will be presented – last point, Mr. Finanzminister –: The cost of the transparency database is about the same as the cost one would like to represent at all. So what's the cost of the whole story? – Well, the establishment, which is still going on, one can probably call it, costs €1.6 million. The current costs are then designated. And do you know how this is with the running costs of €2.5 million a year? This is only for the federal government, because the countries are not yet present. There are now state treaty negotiations on an Article 15a agreement – you have to imagine that! – so that the countries can even say what the costs are. So the current costs per year are €2.5 million. And they've been calculated so much that they've all been asked what it's going to cost. And after everyone has said that this will depend on the effort involved, you have written in, it will cost nothing else, therefore only €2.5 million per year. That is to say, the main association of social security funds, which will certainly have the most cost that will also pay him, says we cannot represent it. So the Minister of Finance writes: Main association zero costs. That's your realistic representation. This is the start of a project, a database of transparency, where I say you could have achieved with much less effort if you, Minister of Finance, were to sit down with the countries and minds and talk about promotions. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Yes, if it is true that you feel that something has been transferred somewhere, then put together, do your work as Minister of Finance, but do not burden the population with a project in millions, where we will certainly talk about how this project is next to it in a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6956	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6978	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the transparency database, a few words to you, Federal Minister Pröll. First of all, I would like to give my group full support to what you said at the end of your speech, namely that we are still carrying out a tax reform and re-evaluating the tax system in Austria, because this is very urgent, and we are here with our full heart. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also simply explain why we see this as a necessity. We know that there is a different way to earn money and income and that this is taxed very differently. You have even said in your speech that the work in Austria is very, very high tax, that is, when you go to work for your money, you pay very high taxes and taxes, whereas for other forms of income today little to be paid in the future 25 percent, for example in speculation. If we look at how the total income is distributed in Austria, then a little more than half the income from work and a little less than half is income from capital. But if we look at the government's revenue, almost 90 percent of the government's revenue is tax and taxes on work and consumption, and only about 10 percent on income from capital, although only a little more than half of the work is earned. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] This is what we see from the tax system that we are taxing work far too much and capital income, corporate profits et cetera far too low in relation to it. That is, we have to go down with taxes on work, and instead we have to see that those who have capital incomes make just as much a contribution as all those who work for their money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls for Greens and BZÖ.]] Yes, with this budget we are taking important steps in this direction. [[Abg. Oillinger: With the transparency database!]] We ensure that foundations pay as much as savings books pay, 25 percent. We ensure that speculation gains are also taxed as much as a savings book, i.e. 25 percent and not zero as before. This is a step in the right direction, but it is far from that we have a fair tax burden compared with labour and capital. This is an important step, but there will have to be many steps. And if you continue this path, you will certainly have us as a partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing about what you said is a contradiction. They have said that countries or people live above their conditions. One thing I'm saying: With Greece you can certainly talk about the fact that many in-house, in-house, Greek-internal mistakes have happened here, and in Ireland this is a little different. The general population in Ireland has not lived up to their conditions. What has just happened to Ireland is mainly due to the financial sector. That is, a part of Irish society, yes, the financial sector, has lived through the conditions, but what all states, namely the GIPS countries Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, have in common is not only that they have difficulty in financing their public debt, but above all that they take extremely low taxes, especially in relation to Austria. If they were to take taxes as much as Austria, they would not have a financial problem and would have a balanced budget. That's what you have to represent. [[Inter-calls for Greens and BZÖ.]] What happened there is that parts have lived over their conditions, financial markets, even parts, for example with bonuses. In addition to the transparency database, we also have other points on the agenda today, for example, one that I consider very important that in the future bonus payments in the financial field should no longer be based on short-term indicators, but must be more transparent, second, they should not be paid immediately, but a part only after five years, so that we can see that the company is in a positive position in the long term. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Parent]] Anyway, I think that's reasonable that this is happening. And that also leads to more transparency, you're right. To the transparency database, it can be said that this is not an egg-legging wool milk sauce. Mr Oellinger is right, she can now represent a lot in the first phase and not much. In other words, the whole range of benefits is very rudimentary, with real figures, but with not all too meaningful figures. Yeah, that's right. But she can do other things very well. It can down to the individual company exactly what the economic promotion of this company is, what it has provided for funding from various parts of the Federal Government. It's open that we're also expanding this for country promotions. And she's certainly something that's not finished. You are perfectly right, and we will be discussing how to further develop this project in a year. But what it can do today is to increase transparency not only as regards social transfers, as far as individuals are concerned, but also as as regards companies as regards economic promotions, where we have zero transparency today. And even in the agricultural sector, where today, when the server is turned off, one no longer sees how it is distributed, the server is turned up and can ensure more transparency in the agricultural field. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, for less!]] That is why we support this project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] If you keep calling in here and now calling ‘Greece’ again, I come to the BWG, which is next on the agenda. At the next item on the agenda, we have the BWG, for which I have already said that we are making the bonuses clearer and more transparent, so that we can make sure that bonuses can no longer be paid for their full and short-term profit, but in the long term, that there must be a long-term success and that half the bonus is not paid at all for five years, so that the company can verify whether this was a short-term success or whether it is really sustainable. From such crises, such as the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia, one can see that one has to observe longer term to see if a business policy is successful or not. The second thing we decide on is the Rescue Fund, so that the Austrian National Bank can pay its shares in the IMF, namely that we also provide this Rescue Fund, which you have spoken about, properly. And one last important point, I think, also to Ireland and to what you unfortunately did not succeed in your negotiations: Ireland has one of the lowest corporate tax rates in Europe, i.e. only 12.5 percent. With this extremely low corporate tax rate, it makes all other countries, including us, competitive. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] It is certainly a mistake that this tax dumping can still be done. It is therefore very unfortunate that the negotiations have not succeeded in seeing Ireland stop with this tax dumping with companies, which will harm us and many others and allow us to finance this damage now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7122	Mr Bucher, President-in-Office of the Council, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7143	Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law on the transparency database is something like a synonym for what Mr Finanzminister understands the implementation of his policy. It's been a very long time, and it's a very long way, Minister of Finance, from your head to your hand. We note this when we look at the draft of this transparency database. You have also expressed in your current budget speech what it is all about. This budget speech, Minister of Finance, was one of the regrets that we heard from you, a one-of-a-kind lamentation, yes, a remorseful lamentation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what your private capitulation has been said. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What?]] You, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, reform is inability, and you are also unwilling to address the challenges of the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister! If you have listened carefully, then this was the admission of complete despair to get the debt under control, because what you have done was past treatment of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] For 24 years in the Federal Government, debt has been made for 24 years, and now the record deficit, ladies and gentlemen, this is your work, which you are responsible for here, Minister of Finance, and which has been expressed with this budget speech. And then came the sentence: “Whoever pays taxes must not be the stupid one.” – I don’t know who did that. That, Minister of Finance, Mr Pröll, which you are talking about, is not what you are doing. This is quite different, because in reality, in Austria the foolish and the diligent are the fools. This is reflected in your policy, and this must be fought, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the foundation of the failure of this federal government. We hear every time: No new debts! It is a record that has been expressed in this budget speech. They're making record deficits in double-digit billions and they're talking about that we can't make new debts. Yes, Minister of Finance, this is lying propaganda that you are doing here, and nothing else! This has to be said so openly once again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I must have smiled at Mr Strache when he said that you were saving the Irish. - Yes, in two respects. Not only the Irish, but also yours, because they are the banks, ladies and gentlemen. They are bank representatives number one of the Raiffeisen Group, which you have ordered here in order to send back the Raiffeisenbank the money it needs for its expansions and the acquisition of Marod Bank, not only in Austria but also in the Central European countries. If there is money for the banks, if there is money for the Euro-help, the euro-saving shield, for the Greeks, for the Irish, yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have to ask yourself the question: When is the end of the flag rod reached? Is this going on in the next few months and years? Yes, where will we get all the money for saving half of Europe? Where is the money to be taken up and generated? We say: It must finally be over! Once a plan B has to be made, the clarity of what we are planning with Europe and with the euro zone in the future. It cannot be said that we are constantly asking our taxpayers to check out, the families, the caregivers and even the more socially vulnerable in our country, who are in favour of saving the maritime banking system, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, we need a concept for the maintenance of the euro and, if it has to, a Euro light, a Euro of the two speeds. That is the recipe, that is the formula we have to think about, and not to invest and apply everything for the rescue of the Marod countries and the Marod banks. Ladies and gentlemen! This policy of Mr Pröll's Minister of Finance is a policy with which we make citizens a guarantee. This is actually reflected in this policy. And it's a robbery against the next generations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance, never forget that this is not your money that you are taking up here, that it is not your private money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you were dealing with your private money as with taxpayers' money, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance, then you would have to go into insolvency and private bankruptcy. Because no one, no bank, would give you money because you keep in debt every year. You'd have to go to the private bankruptcy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Fascinating Krida!]] This is reality, and that is the imbalance expressed here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Many, of course, ask themselves why they are asked to cash out here and why they are not even substantially reformed in the structures, in the administration, in the health sector, for example at the hospitals or at the ÖBB, which costs taxpayers €7 billion a year and where you are now faced with the question of making €400 million available to the ÖBBBB. It has become unbearable with which feeling cold you conduct financial policy, Mr. Finanzminister Pröll. This is what the families in our country are asking.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7234	Mr Klubobmann, you have one and a half minutes left and have not yet said a sentence on the transparency database.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7270	Madam President. I will, of course, comply with your request and also lose a few words on this plant database, because this plant database, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but an information page on the network where the taxpayer can inform himself of the social benefits to him. In essence, Mr Finanzminister, you have completely failed to reconcile the 200 different social benefits, at last, in the simplification of administration, to make some progress to eliminate the double tracks. It is nothing but an information page that costs taxpayers money, but basically does nothing. Here, as it were, the old manners were operated again: Mountains have cried out, and a little mouse was born, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is symptomatic of the policy of the Minister of Finance Pröll. Citizens feel “grumbled. ” That's the fact! Total: They are not about reforming the country, but they are about managing it. This is Pröll policy in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7312	It now has Mr. Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7334	Madam President. High house! After the budget speech, this is – surprisingly for me – a budget debate on a completely different subject. I am very pleased that today, after the budgetary speech on this item on the agenda, which should now be at the heart of the negotiations, I am able to comment briefly, namely on the transparency database for Austria. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I remember: I have ventilated this idea in Austria in October last year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is nothing left of it! There's nothing left!]] I have also received many acceptable word messages, including from opposition parties, where we thought that we should consider moving forward this idea of establishing a database of transparency in the sense of performance, in the sense of transparency and also in the sense of avoiding double-tracks. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Again the untruth!]] I am very glad that we can now, as I hope, finally decide on this database of transparency. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: I don't think so!]] What are the key points of this transparency database? In my view, what is the important political project behind this? – We have experienced in the European Union, but also in Austria, in the interplay of federal, national and local authorities over the past few years and decades, I would not say, a wild growth, but a mixture of transfers which are granted from different areas for individuals, businesses and private households, where we no longer know how much is granted in individual cases by which local authority and to what extent. [[Abg. Oillinger: You don’t – I do!]] And it is just – to put this word in the mouth again – and it is also right to make sure that everyone knows about himself once more what he pays for taxes, how much he gets back, how much the transfers that are granted to him, and that behind that, the authority and all of us can politically fulfil what the citizens rightly expect from us. [[Abg. Oils: Please! Please! Painful!]] They expect us to recognize and eliminate double-tracks. And they expect us to return to the principle of fairness of performance and not only to talk about distributing, and that without control. [[Abg. Kickl: For God's sake, you must laugh yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This transparency database includes a huge sum: In Austria, €78 billion is on the road to transfer services. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, not transfer services! Don't look after me again!]] And we want no more and no less than that, through better transparency and the prevention of double-tracks, more reliability is ensured in the sense of those filling the tax pot. That's exactly the basis! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the basis of this transparency database: On the one hand, we want to allow every individual citizen – including in terms of more quality of service – to know about his financial flows and, on the other hand, to ensure maximum transparency in the fight against double-tracking. I am very glad that we are now coming to the decision-making process, and I hope that this idea, which I or we have born together in the Austrian People's Party, will find a majority in the coalition, because it is the entry into the right system, together with the federal states that we will of course ask to come on board to do what Austria's citizens expect, namely to ensure a careful, fair handling of the transfers of this country. [[Abg. Olympian: Piper!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A Fiasco!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7524	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7545	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that the Minister of Finance, before becoming a Minister of Finance, has spent a long time in the Ministry of Agriculture, because what he has presented to us here and to the people today as the so-called mature fruit of government budget considerations and as a result of various expert rounds, smirgel exercises and sauna channels, has, from our free standpoint and probably also from the point of view, a maximum potential for use on a political compost pile, in order to formulate it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also applies to the transparency database. And in the next few days and weeks, we will certainly have very intense discussions here, and we will also bring this problem of the budget with all its injustices, especially in the family sector, to the Constitutional Court, because we do not want to deal with your red-black majority just like a lawn mower over important parts of the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians who have already been tested by the red and black proporz governments know exactly what they are: In the meantime, there is something like an iron law of this government work. If one in itself – and I say, “in itself” means nothing but the possibility – reasonable thing or idea in the fingers of this red-black government team or in the fingers of the red and black Members here in this House, then one can most likely assume that something completely unreasonable comes out of this reasonable in reality, ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, that's a lawfulness, and you can see where you want to go! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us just take the example of monetary union. – In itself a useful project when you are involved in the right states. However, I do not know how many more experiences you still need to see that the model, as you still advocate it, has failed. So again there is proof of your rigidity and inconsistency! In fact, financial assistance to States in difficulty is also a useful project, if you draw a final line, if you really help the state and start a new start. As you do, however, on the European Union's tape, emptying money into a barrel without soil, without any result and without any prospect of improvement, will not be the case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And in itself, because we have also discussed the budget, it would be quite useful to put on the spasm and get hold of the debt mountain, which is not we, but your predecessors, who have been sitting there before us and who have always congratulated and complained about, at the expense of the Austrians, to get hold of it! But here you have to change something in the structure, you have to go into the bloated apparatus and you shouldn't, as you do, shoot a load shot in the middle of the population. That's not going to happen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So if you're dealing with a matter that is reasonable in itself, then you're sure the opposite will come out of it. And, of course, the transparency database must not be an exception to this rule either. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor and ÖVP Party Head! I believe that at the beginning of this debate on the transparency database there was at least one spark of hope in the short term. People have believed – and I have also been listening to it for some time – that the ÖVP may still be able to do something in the field of family policy and that not as the only thing that will be found in the history books remains that the family-political glamour of Mr Pröll is the introduction of gay marriage. There was a bright hope there! On your own, you have greatly disappointed us in this area too, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because unlike the gay marriage – and I call it because it is like the transparency database a very personal child of yours, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, because You were the head of the perspective group, who inflamed this nonsense – that is, in contrast to the gay marriage that you went through in the last episode and without If and But, you have wronged the idea of the transparency database in the course of the negotiations with the SPÖ from what it should have been. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have reduced the minimum level of security and effective transparency of the SPÖ to the detriment of the Austrian population. That's the truth! And that's the state we're dealing with now, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Cap, who is hiding inside today because he is embarrassed, does not want to say anything about the transparency database today. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, should have been careful when Mr Cap suddenly began to praise the transparency database over the last few weeks and months, since you should have known that no more can be left of the transparency database at the latest from the moment the Cap begins to praise the transparency database. That's where the alarm bells should have ringed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you just took note of all of this. You, ladies and gentlemen, have promised to break down double tracks, say administrative reform! . We know that you are shy of the administrative reform just like Count Dracula's sunlight. You, ladies and gentlemen, have promised control! – What you are now delivering is perhaps a control in the way in which the state finances have been controlled in Ireland or Greece. But it has nothing to do with how effective control works! All of these are areas, ladies and gentlemen, where this project has completely gone into the pants! Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, is a good example, and I would like to quote him at the end of my speech. He said – that thing had another name, not a transparency database, but a transfer account, but it's the same –: “Let’s forget the transfer account. Because the transfer account is no contribution to more justice, no contribution to distribution justice, no contribution in the fight against abuse and no contribution when someone is concerned about performance justice. And the transfer account is also no contribution to administrative reform.” – Quotes. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because it is, there is also today the consent of the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7694	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7715	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Because we have one of the best employment situations in Europe in Austria, because we have the lowest unemployment, because we can have some growth, and because we are best involved in the economic good situation and development of the European countries in Europe, we can allow ourselves to provide adequate social and transport services in that country. At least more than €78 billion of social and transfer benefits are granted, in addition €15 billion in subsidies and subsidies, and it is appropriate to channel the funds with the help of a transparency database, to see where the funds are going, to hold the structures accordingly, and to make clear to the citizens what effect social systems actually have. I've come here, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, a list of incomes of three families each with two children, 10 and 14 years old. The first family has 950 € per month gross acquisition income, and with all transfers it has a available family income of 2 325 € per month. The second family, with the same family status, has 1,900 € gross. The available family income is 2 540 € with all transfers. And at €3 800 gross income, the third family has a family income of €3 079. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this can be consulted in the future by individuals in the transparency database. And we, the government leaders and the political leaders, have the opportunity to draw conclusions on these structures from the various subsidies and subsidies and to counter them accordingly. The following, ladies and gentlemen, have also been said: More than 70 percent of these 80 million € in social and transfer benefits come directly from the economy via additional wage and wage costs. And if the economy is to be internationally sustainable, successful and competitive, then we must try to ensure that the social ratio does not expand further up, because this would increasingly reduce competitiveness in the international market. But we would also encounter the limits of purchasing power at national level if we were to burden the additional wage costs with such social costs and, above all, with a tax rate of about 43 percent. There is a good benchmark, ladies and gentlemen, and that is Switzerland again and again for me. Switzerland has a social rate of around 20 percent and an average tax rate of 30 percent. This means that if one leaves the citizen more in the money pocket from home, so less taxed away from his income, he also needs much less social benefits from the state. And the economy is also more competitive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] All in all, I think we can be very satisfied with developments in the taxation of workers in recent years, Mr Krainer. I remember that, for example, among socialist finance ministers, the tax collection has begun at about €7 000 annual income, and now workers are taxed only from an income of €14 000. We have thus exempted more than two million Austrian workers from income tax. We must also be careful, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that we do not further insecure the service providers in this country. We have 3.9 million people in employment with about 8.2 million citizens, and about 4.3 million people who are unemployed. 1.9 million are net payers in this system. In other words, they raise the necessary tax and social contributions to cover the cost of social systems. Overall, this transparency database should allow us to keep our social and social system in balance. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7782	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7804	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Transparency, transparency – the budget also misses this! It is, in many respects, a brave and cowardly budget that has been presented here. And especially in the field of openness and honesty, it has been particularly bad. Let us go directly to medias res: to the future clatage, which is conducted in school politics and at universities. The Federal Government has announced again today that there is an offensive package for the universities. This is white provocation! Because it is true that there was massive funding for universities in the financial perspective. This goes into the three-digit million range. And now you come and pick up €80 million somewhere, according to the motto: We'll give you something more! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you all have to go to the political PISA test. I say this to you before you continue to light Parliament and the population. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that might be well suited for the preschool level, because you do nothing but give the children three sugars away there And then give them one again and say: So, now you got one! That's the way it is! Even the dimensions are right. And that's just a cleaner! That's not worthy of this house. Not even the population should be said that way. This is the "grassing" of Mr Finanzminister, the "small" pröll. Since the “great ” pomp sits in the neck, he dares to do nothing more. It's just unworthy how you're set up here. And we will not let that happen in this whole debate – after we have been so to speak, so to speak, besieged here for an hour with a covert rhetoric. We are going to bring in transparency, because at least that must be it. And we're going to fight for a few more points, for example, for putting off this dizziness. The rector conference – above all Professor Sünkel, but also Professor Bast – has regularly directed it to you, which is a nonsense. The universities lack €300 million, which is clear to everyone, not because they want to throw the money out of the window, but because they need it for the most necessary measures. But you are not willing to save money either elsewhere, which would be easier and more sensible, or to increase taxes where it meets the right ones. But They were also cowardly in other respects – I come to the second and third points – in that you cut shorts with those who cannot defend themselves, and you were also cowardly because you have let the super rich and the rich run again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This can't happen, even if you're voting on other sounds in the coalition rhetoric – the SPÖ will like it. The rich are just tickling a biterl, but certainly not just taxed. And there you have to listen to such an appearance here! This too is a culture of transparency. But back to the universities and to the students, where it really is missing! – Cutting in there simply costs the future. And there is nothing to do with it when the Lord Minister of Finance knows how often the term “future” goes into the mouth. How did he say it? – “Fulfilment for the future.”Yes, there is the question of where to invest and where to save. That's the right question! And we want to have the discussion about it here all the time. But there you refuse, here with six weeks of delay, you will bring in some kind of intrusive budget, because you just don't want to debate it, which is where the priorities are. And then exactly the wrong one is told. “Pour the future.” Do you know who will eat the future? – This is the Federal Government when it comes to schools and universities! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Stop with these funny plattites! You're not even stupid to print it in a booklet. This could have been a contribution to administrative reform: either to give a better budget speech, which would also be worth printing, or to refrain from such a printing work, because such a nonsense does not have to be pressed in hard copy. But please, there has also been some wrong elsewhere. But let's stick to what future means: If you – next cowardice, next dizziness – have to go there anyway and with the students – and there has originally been the whole spirit of this thing – want to cut it inside at the reduction, namely when radical deletion of the family allowance from 26 to 24 years, exactly in this area, then you are exactly there that you are at least for These groups wish to introduce the tuition fees through the back door several times and several times. Obviously, the ÖVP has been implemented in your skiersdorf-husch-pusch-verfahren. Then you have come up with it that you can't even stand it, which is why you've now provided exceptions. After all! But this is not due to your wisdom, but it is thanks to the protests outside and a committed opposition here in the house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, we will also continue to fight so that you have to take back or take back a few things that are reasonable – that is considered – here. But what is the continuing cowardice? – You now have to correct this measure to the extent that those who are study beneficiaries can continue to benefit from family support. They must correct them where a very long study period has already been prescribed. In addition, it is noted that in many studies most people do not even enter the compulsory seminars, because this is already such a condition at the university, which you still tighten up with the other measures and do not fix it. That's double punishment. They must make this exception useful in the protection of mothers, in the presence and civil servants, in those who only last 19 years, and so on and so on. You know what? Is this a contribution to administrative reform if you have to carry out all these individual cases again, who has a claim and who does not? They were too cowardly to take back as a whole an entirely pointless measure, which was an attack on the students and, above all, on their families. This would not even have cost that much. But there, too, the cowardice is recognizable. And finally – and that's the worst thing about how things are going for the future –: In the real reforms, you were too cowardly to your own national leaders. It's much worse. There the millions would actually be inside – if not overnight or in the first year, but in the second, third, fourth year – if these reforms were really addressed. So it's exactly that you save very well, but save with your brain and heart! And just as invest with brain and heart! - It's missing here. That is why you can see a smooth lack of satisfaction for this draft budget, because it would have been quite different. In fact, you don't move so much at all. The structural reforms are rather minimal, but the damage to those where you cut is relatively large. One is actually surprised at these measures, which you have put in place, how to do so much damage with so little innovation. Finally, it is precisely about saving in the really large areas. It is not clear at all that you have been discussing the school administration for so long and the proposals are on the table, and all the other proposals we have drawn up with the Court of Auditors are still brief. There is nothing to help you with this fog talk of this budget speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7932	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7953	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me, since a great deal of attention has been paid to the budget by my previous speakers, take a brief look at the statements made by Mr Strache, who has accused the Minister of Finance of the lack of courage and indecisiveness in the matter of budget issues. – So courage and determination cannot really be blamed on the Free Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Petzner: ÖVP Minister of Finance!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I remember very well the dogma of the zero deficit, to which in fact everything was sacrificed, of the introduction of tuition fees, which have not benefited the universities, but have been used to renovate the budget. In the course of the preparation for today's speech, I have looked at the balance sheet of Minister of Finance Grasser, and the "can be seen": [[Abg. Petzner: From the ÖVP! - Wrong party!]] This amounted to €2.8 billion in taxes for the people and €1.7 billion in redundancies for the wealth and the companies. So courage cannot be blamed on you, but not on the way we understand a courageous budget. And I think the balance that the Minister of Finance has shown in his budget speech today shows that we are going a different way under a Social Democratic chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let me come to the topic of transfer account now. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Transfer account”?- Oh, my God!]] The Minister of Finance has said that one year ago it was called “transfer account” and is now called “transparency database”. And no, it's not the same. [[Abg. Kickl: It's gotten worse! That's right: it's gotten worse!]] And that's why, Mr. Kickl: At the time, Josef Cap’s statement, which you read, concerned the question of the transfer account, in which it would have existed in a “striptease” of the individual people, which would not have been a transfer account, but a “need account”, just as it would have been in the media very soon – with the SPÖ. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No control and control instrument! Unfortunately!]] This striptease would not have been with the SPÖ! That is, long negotiations that we have now held with the coalition partner have brought it where we would like it to be, because it has made it a transfer database with those data that also interest us. [[Abg. Kickl: That nothing is anymore!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That nothing is anymore!]] Federal Minister Hundstorfer said it in the survey: 94 percent of transfers to the people are federal benefits. And he said, and I quote him: If the covenant does not know what it pays to the people, what we decide here, then good night! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know that either!]] That's the way it is: We know what federal benefits are paid out to the people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not through the transfer database!]] What we do not know in this form is what is paid out by countries and communities. It is precisely these services that are to be merged. However, once again: It's not a database that's supposed to affect the little ones. And the president of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation also said at the beginning of the discussion: Those who believe that they can collect transfers for the poorest at the minimum level, and the only ones who are wrong. - And that's exactly how it is. That's exactly what we're not doing today. We know from a study by the Economic Research Institute, which was also presented here in Parliament in this survey, that in Austria – and that was partly said by my previous speakers – a social compensation through the tax system. The compensation that works works with us through social transfers. What does that mean? – The lower third of the population in Austria receives 14 percent of gross market income, the average 29 percent and the upper third 57 percent. As the state intervenes by redistributing by means of transfer measures, this segment shifts. That is, the people who otherwise only have 14 percent access then have 23 percent who have 29 percent, 30 percent, and those who have 57 percent are 46 percent. That is, what the tax system is not doing, we are trying to compensate for it by means of transfers. And we see that this system also works, and this system not least benefits us all of Europe. We have come through this crisis with a reasonable labour market policy, a very proactive labour market policy and investment in social transfers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And last but not least, it is also due to this fact that the savings budget presented by the Minister of Finance today is a very mild one compared to what other states around us can and must do. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: This is a sensation!]] I have already said that the compensation works through the social transfer. A few figures that show above all the differences between men and women: In Austria, every seventh self-employed man has an income above the maximum contribution base, but only every 24 years. Madame. The progressive effect that wage taxes have, namely that those who earn more also pay more, should actually reduce the income gap. This does not work, however, because the regressive effect of social security contributions is almost offset. And tax advantages, as they are necessary for many in the area of wage tax, are ineffective for women, as they usually do not pay a wage tax. An increase in indirect taxes, as was also envisaged in the issue of budget creation, namely in the form of VAT increases, would be even more strained on these people, namely people with low incomes. I would remind you of the question of the distinction between denominators and donors in the system in the context of the transfer account, in particular by the Industrial Association at the time. If you look at this system, you have to look at this system throughout life. We are all names, at some point, at the beginning of our life, we are donors during our working life, and we are again takers when we retire. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, you are always Nehmer! The Minister of Finance is Nehmer!]] If a person, like the president of the Industrial Association, was 25 years old when he entered the profession, he is therefore not a greater denominator than the ÖGB President, who entered the working life at the age of 16 years, because this is nifling during life. And, as I said, I wish both a long life in health, so that they do not become consumers for as long as possible. That is to say, raising a distinction between denominators and donors is cynical. Let me also say one last word about Mr Finanzminister's word in his budget speech. He said that only where there is prosperity can there be welfare. – Dear Minister of Finance! I can really assure you, and be sure of this: There will be no welfare state with the SPÖ. We are not a party where alms are distributed to people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we stand for is a balanced social state: a state where those who are healthy are for those who are sick; where those who have more for those who have less; where those who have work pay for those who have no work. There will be no alms state with the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8159	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8180	Mrs Oberhauser, if you are a philosopher here about the Nehmer, then I have to say that you have forgotten a very important group, because the true names are your failed red and black managers in the state and semi-governmental areas – from ÖBB, airport, banks – who are still fed down with a super board or a super salary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You didn't mention them, and you should get them out of your way, 'cause that's really a scandal that's happening. [[Abg. Bookbooker: This is true!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the Minister of Finance has spoken and hastened to leave the house. This is also a kind of parliamentarianism which he apparently takes seriously here or does not take seriously. I don't think that's all right. I would otherwise have shown him a picture that is currently regarded as a symbol of this government throughout the country. [[The speaker holds a sheet in height, on top of Oliver Hardy and Stan Laurel and among them Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll and Federal Chancellor Faymann are pictured and the question “Reincarnation?” can be read between the two illustrations.]] This is the symbol – it stands for the seriousness – of how the people see this government: above the predecessors Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy, and among them are the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. Now I'm telling you: After this speech, Minister of Finance, one has to question this symbol. Because at Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy, we knew from the outset that what they say is not serious and nonsense. But you in the government still believe what you are saying, and you are serious about that. This is really a shame for this House and also for the Republic of Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not only do I say that, for example, today also the Caritas Director Landau – who is politically not related or kind of friendly with us. He also says that this budget is a shame. And it's a shame, Minister of Finance! They always say the money is missing. They say the money's missing. For families, for education, for health, for pensions, for young people, for infrastructure too, the funds are broken down. The money is missing everywhere! But there is money right away if we need to clean up the pleite budgets of the Pleitelands in Europe, such as Greece and Ireland! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then suddenly there's money from the taxpayer, Minister of Finance! And it's suddenly there – I said it before – when we have to pay the salaries and bonuses of the failed managers, your red-black fellows at the ÖBB, at the airport or also in the banks. It is then money if we have to pay for your political administration throughout Austria with over 700 Members of Parliament. There is then enough money there when in the EU Parliament the bonuses out there are excessive pay advances and excessive pensions, with an increase of 3.7 percent. Then there's money! Then you agree, Minister of Finance. – It’s really a shame and a community as you deal with the money in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The very same is the case with this transparency database – the transparency database, Mr. Finanzminister, with which you have been moved. You've gone out with a big talk, and it's gone out like the famous Ereig-Nis in 1564, the Hornberger Shooting. There it was also the case that the Duke of Württemberg moved out to Hornberg and was to be received there with great spirit. Then a carriage passed, then a crucible, then another cattle herd. He never came, but it was always shot salute. This is the Hornberger shooting. And the same is true with the transparency database: She's not here, she never came. You failed, Minister of Finance! There is no transparency database! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There was a cow trade once a year ago, a cow trade – we all remember that, all the media have written it – between the SPÖ and the ÖVP. The SPÖ wanted minimum security and the ÖVP the transparency database. That was the cow trade. This cow trade went over the stage with a complete capitulation of the ÖVP. After this cow trade, it looks like the SPÖ rides on its thick cow minimum protection, and the ÖVP sits with the flat bottom of the pants on the white meadow. - That's your trial! You fell by the ÖVP, you have been pulled over the table, and you have shaved a damp throat for what should actually be in a transparency database. That is why we have also made the following offer in the Committee, an unusual offer – Mr Oellinger has already mentioned it –: You take this back, and we are no longer talking about it, because we do not want to alienate ourselves for this bill presented by the Minister of Finance. Because it's for generating. It is not transparency, Mrs Tamandl. - Where is she? Not there either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Tamandl – she is also here – if your glasses you wear were as transparent as the transparency database, then you would not find the outcome of this room! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the BZÖ.]] That's the truth. There's no transparency in there at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want to retrieve this now from the transparency database, do you know what is in § 3? – That only the person concerned, it is clear that can be called. So anyone who knows what he gets and deserves then gets it black on white again, gets the note, can look at it, thinks: Aha, yes, I deserve that. Thank you, and throw him away. But he doesn't even have to be complete! Section 3 contains: ‘In order to fulfil the purpose of the proof, the recipient of the service may, by means of the transparency portal, obtain an extract from all data or only ‘one or more types of service’. That's really incredible. There is no even the obligation to issue a total benefit! There's a door and a door open to abuse, Minister of Finance. We are still coming to the committee, because the chairman of the committee is not allowed to speak stupidly today. I am glad that in the last presidential term, the procedure of this EIA member as committee chairman has been strongly criticised by all parties. For one thing cannot be stupid, Mr Colleague, that you have comprehensive amendments – not with one, Mrs Tamandl, but with two!; one was comprehensive and also a committee statement – come to the committee from the bright sky, say you can't even read it through, and then make the following proposal: First vote, and then you can read through the applications! Where are we?- Oh, my God! That is the abolition of parliamentarianism, the abolition of any joint work in this House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a scandal, and I am glad that such a thing does not interfere, as it seems to be the way of the ÖVP. We already know: Fold hands, hold goschn! – A quote not from me, but from the ÖVP club. You can't read anything there before. Obviously, there must be coordination without reading anything. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of a real citizens' account – our clubman has also presented the model – a citizens' account, where the transfers of federal government, municipalities and countries are transparent, all recorded together, controlling in order to eliminate double-tracks in order to eliminate abuse. This is our model we have. Something else is very important, and that is why there is certainly no agreement from us: not only because this is an unnecessary act, but because there were many discoveries to which nothing has been followed. For example, Mr. Herb, who is sitting here in the third row, but also representatives of the ÖVP, have always said: Together with this transparency database, we will also make the party funds transparent and public! - Where is that, Mr. Herb? What has become of this proposal? Where's that? Where's that in there? - Nowhere! The party funds will continue to be hidden by you. And that's why there's no consent from us for this pussy that's on the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8287	I now give the floor to Mr Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8308	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say a few words, because I think a few things have to be dealt with. It is a question of social democracy, but also of this government not wanting to have a surveillance state à la FPÖ. [[Abg. Kickl: An order!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's a clear demarcation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: An order! – You want a chaos!]] What you want is a comprehensive surveillance state and a total right-wing wheel that you are currently doing, with which you believe you can still vote in the future. This is also seen in your attitude toward gender partnerships. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] [[Abg. Kickl: So what? Have we got another one than you!]] Here different ideologies meet. To the database itself: Not only are social benefits shown, but transfer payments are also mentioned. That is to say, everything we have on so-called subsidies, for all sectors of our country, is recorded in this database. It is not a question either, some of which – I have already said that in the survey – are, of course, insurance benefits where people pay and get a benefit for them. But another part is pure funding, pure subsidies. It also makes everything transparent, as there are tax reliefs for corporations, and so on. It is in the future – and this is the crucial difference where we have not been watered down, but in my opinion greatly improved – also in terms of profit-free payments, Foundation taxes and so on. We live in a country where the word “data protection” is not an empty phrase – I think that is clear to everyone – but in which data protection is taken seriously. As a result, of course, the individual can always have an extract over himself, and of course, the individual – and this is also stated in this law – will have to bring his extract, if he makes a request, that is not a question at all. However, the authority will not be able to sniff in it, but the individual will have to make what he already has transparent to the place where he makes a request. What is the meaning and purpose? – Meaning and purpose are the manifestation of the variety of benefits. It is about the fact that – and that is very important to me too – the Federal Government can, in its entirety, make queries, anonymized, according to the structure of a performance. [[Abg. Kickl: If you ask how many..., you won't get an answer!]] It is also a controlling instrument for policy-makers, it is by anonymous evaluation a controlling instrument, whether one has the right direction in certain projects, whether one has the right direction in certain policy ideas. I think it's a very comprehensive portal, a very comprehensive database, and so in the future we'll know very well what we're doing about funding, what amounts we really are talking about and what we're paying people off in insurance. It is about – and this is very important to me – that double-tracks are, of course, reduced, but that is not the priority of social poverty, as some of you always put, but of what the citizen has to do. And if there are double liquefactions there or there, they are to be avoided – but not because of a debate of envy, but as a result of the logic debate, that we do not want to have double liquefactions, which is guaranteed by it. To the keyword “transparency” only the following – because there is a lot of discussion about our pension system over and over again, about pensions, because it is said that everything is collapsing –: Take note that what we have in Austria, the state-funded pension system, is very transparent – for what I pay, I get an insurance; this has proved very well in the crisis. And if we all work together to ensure that the Austrians stay healthy for longer in working life and that people take up their pension within ten years, then this system will continue to be very, very crisis-proof in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8407	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8428	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! When we went to the final meeting of the Financial Committee with the intention of agreeing to this transparency database, we still felt that it was a matter of preventing branches, multiple subsidies, double transfers, agreeing on cooperation between the Federal Government, countries, municipalities and social security companies, and above all making public services more transparent. This is not about a debate of envy, but only about more justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened? Where is transparency? – A “intransparency database” has come out! For if I were to follow the logic of the Minister of Social Affairs, I would now have to ask that the Financial Office should no longer see my salary and income in the future, because that would also contradict data protection. It is only about the public hand having an insight to see where social abuse and precisely these double-tracks prevail. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government has not even, already mentioned today, concluded these Article 15a agreements with the countries. We do not even know whether the countries and communities are involved. This would make no sense at all if only the federal authorities were there. The result is – and we stand for that – a toothless tiger, which is not worth discussing at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Then why do you talk about it?]] The only thing that comes to us is the cost of administration, economy, chambers and cetera. Mr Oellinger has already mentioned it: €1.6 million for the construction by the Federal Accounting Centre and annual costs of approximately €2.5 million for the Federal Government alone. We do not even know the costs that come to the countries and communities. I should like to quote the Minister for Finance, who said in today's budget speech: “With the initiative to reduce administrative costs for businesses”, the Federal Government is making an important contribution to cutting red tape for the economy.” That's exactly what comes to us: Costs for the economy, in turn, without a result at the end of the day. This only leads to a bloating without more efficiency. Unfortunately, the ÖVP – I cannot spare the ÖVP this accusation – has been completely pulled over the table, and it is now only going through this project and this government template in order not to lose sight of the public. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can already see the vehemence and the inbreast with which the SPÖ defends this government template, how much it is at the end of the day behind this government template. And for me the question is: Therefore, would the SPÖ want to prevent this from becoming transparent, because perhaps precisely the foreigners affected by the asylum mafia are, in some cases, the big beneficiaries of our social system, or does the ÖVP have no interest in it, because last but not least, their artists from agriculture may cash two- and three-fold subsidies? Ladies and gentlemen! This Husch-Puff template is a symptom of the current picture the government offers. This government template fully integrates itself into the number of political failures of that government. We do not give our approval to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8489	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8510	Mr President. High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the TV! Today, even after the budget speech of our Minister of Finance, the budget is very much in line with the budget: a maximum of savings and reforms, a minimum of taxes and debt, as far as possible under the given political circumstances, and fair compensation for all stakeholders. [[Abg. Grosz: Our beloved Minister of Finance!]] I am already on the current topic: Fairness, justice and transparency. [[Abg. May. Widmann: The families!]] And since I have said: "As far as this was possible under the given political circumstances", I would like to say to you, Mr Krainer – who is not in the hall at the moment – that, if you are offering a tax reform, of course, we are always very careful. It is already very class-warring if one claims that capital is too little taxed and the work is enormous. I would just like to say that two million Austrians were tax-freed during the reign of Schüssels, so that no taxes can be paid up to an annual income of €14 000. 4.3 million Austrians are not in employment, so the total tax burden must be borne by 1.9 million Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer]] I don't think we can burden them any more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I would also like to congratulate our vice chancellor, his staff and the Secretary of State for the great work they have been doing for Austria in the last few days and weeks, and I would also like to thank our Minister of Finance for spending several weekends working at the Ecofin in Brussels. It is very reassuring when our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance is in Brussels in these difficult days, when it comes to saving the euro and helping with the other finance ministers there. [[Abg. Grosz: Our beloved Minister of Finance!]] Dear Sepi Bucher, your statements from this speaker's desk about the rescue shield were of course very loud, they were populist, but you as a Carinthian are of course – if a Carinthian talks about financial policy – not very credible, because this country would have been, I think, happy if you had known yourself in financial and banking policy. [[Abg. You're not fighting the Carinthians, are you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. That's great!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The transparency database should now cover all public services, social security contributions, promotions, transfer payments, as we have already heard today, as well as tax benefits that have not been transparent to the recipient or to the public sector so far, and it should be brought light into the transfer jungle. The purpose of these presentations is to provide a basis for increased performance, social security and fairness. This data material is intended to improve the harmonisation and control of transfer charges, to avoid over-supply and double-liability. After that, it will be the task of the policy to review the state transfers on the basis of the new findings, to sharpen them and to increase their reliability. Only in this way can the Austrian social state – at least 30 percent of the social rate – be strongly expressed in the European comparison; we have heard today that €80 billion will be distributed in this country; and if you, Mr. Strache, say again and again that we are a cold country, then it is simply wrong, even the claim that you have always repeated makes this not more correct – even in the future with reasonable costs secured and further developed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] After all, three quarters, you know that, all taxes and taxes in Austria are redistributed in transfer. Given the global dimension of this financial crisis and the euro's long-term recovery attempt, there is a rethinking in dealing with the state and its achievements in all European countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Morality and sincerity, diligence and sparingness are virtues – Mr Grosz, I know you can't begin with these terms – and no burden. [[Abg. Grosz: Is that a virgin speech?]] The fun society has to submit to these values. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Clarify Skylink!]] I'm proud to be Austrian. Austria is a wonderful country. But where we need to get better, our slope is to run and the slightly loose Schlendrian. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what you say to the Minister of Finance!]] What you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, here with your speech on 14. October 2009 in connection with the project Austria is now becoming reality: For the first time, there is a clear overview of all transfers. I believe this is very important, especially since we have introduced minimum security, because we will only see the effects of minimum security, and I will give you the right to have on the labour market, on the willingness to accept jobs voluntarily. There is transparency at the highest level of time. We all have to work here in this House on justice and honesty – also for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8677	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I must admit, for me, this database of transparency, the corresponding law, is something very special: It is definitely the absolute worst political project I have ever met in this House. You've already noticed: With many speeches one had to smile today, although the whole thing is not to laugh. What has been met by a minimum guarantee project in recent months is more likely to create a mixture of amazements and horrors about how minimum security has been channelled around the project. Because originally – Mr Westenthaler mentioned this briefly – it was a question of your having promised your voters by the SPÖ that they would get the poverty in this country. And it was about the fact that, after we had called for Greens for years – social experts, NGOs, social initiatives – something like a basic guarantee has been put on track. But your coalition partner, the ÖVP, did not really like this, because with poverty reduction, the ÖVP doesn't have much to do if it doesn't take place at a charity event. With a right to life assurance, it cannot be as good as it is, it is the lobby party for the super-rich in this country. So it was clear: In this project, the ÖVP somehow had to spread sand into the gearbox. And this sand came to the fore, along with a huge amount of hot air in the form of this transparency database. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to remind you that for weeks no politician of the ÖVP was able to explain what it would be like to have no clear answer to any question from the other experts present. That's how it was, the whole thing was just embarrassing! But, you hear and marvel, despite all this, the SPÖ was ready to link the introduction of the minimum guarantee to the decision-making and implementation of this transparency. And the whole thing goes on: The ÖVP has continued to negotiate for so long until there was nothing left of this minimum guarantee of good. You have to say: They have completely ruined the poverty reduction project by the SPÖ and, as an addition, have received this strange transparency, and that is already a very large abdominal area. Ladies and gentlemen! For the ÖVP, the whole has already made much more sense: On the one hand, you have largely ruined the minimum guarantee, you have also the SPÖ largely represented as unbelievable, but then you still had to edit this dingda. That's a problem, because one thing was clear from the beginning: If the EIA does not want anything, this is transparency. ÖVP does not want transparency on income, wealth, money flows et cetera. You also do not want transparency regarding your party funds. With real transparency, the ÖVP has absolutely nothing to do with the hat, but there was this concession from the SPÖ, almost this transparency account blank check. And what came out of that, we're in front of us today. We of the Greens would finally have wanted a real basic guarantee of existence, but unfortunately nothing has become of it. We of the Greens would have liked to see more transparency: Transparency of income, wealth, tax benefits, other public support. But this too has unfortunately become nothing in connection with this transparency database once again. What you're presenting to us here is absolutely immature is illogical. If you say, as Mrs Tamandel has done in committee, Mr Krainer here today, even the Minister: Let us start by starting with it, it certainly has gaps in content, but let us start with the implementation, you can continue to work on it!, then that for us Greens is really anything but competent government work.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8763	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8784	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! We have now heard from several sides a number of contributions that are far from the transparency database. [[Abg. May. Molterer: For example...!]] For example. Let us take a look at the statements made by my predecessor, Mr Mag. Treasure: The Dingsda is a database. I think you have to explain to people what that is, because otherwise they don't understand what your criticism points are. [[Abg. Rädler: They are so stupid!]] Of course at the beginning was the populist idea: I could collect points at the main table, if I put the so-called social-smarotzers at the pranger, so to speak! [[Abg. Scheibner: Who was the idea of?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was the idea of? Wasn't that the ÖVP?]] In fact, some of the points in Austria need further reform, which can be improved. I believe that the care of those public authorities that decide today whether or not to pay a social benefit is rather overwhelming. That we in Austria have a lack of bureaucracy, that the public administration is not looking at it very carefully before it issues a notice, one cannot make this accusation. This usually works very well in our country. That is why this approach was not the reason why the Federal Government then decided on this project and which we have today found to be the basis for the decision-making in Parliament. We want to achieve something else: We want to avoid mispromoting in our country through federal construction and the diversity in which this is paid out. [[Abg. May. Honey: But that's what you're going to do with it...!]] Of course, Mrs Colleague, and quite simply, Mr Hundstorfer, has just explained to you how this works: The Federal Government can consult this database as soon as all the data are inside and can then determine for example... – Yes, that is contained in the law. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] No problem, Mr President, now you can agree. I'm telling you, it's inside. The Federal Government may, by means of a regulation... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The person concerned!]] The Federal Government can retrieve the necessary statistical data from the database and gain knowledge from it. To provide a practical example [[Abg. Kickl: Take, for example, the Romanian compensation recipients!]] Take us head of state Dörfler – good idea, Mr. Kickl! – who is still driving like a prince of the state anno at the time – still in a country that is pleading, broken down by ten years of leadership under Jörg Haider, a country with 20 billion debts from the hypo history, where the other Austrians and the Federation were allowed to pick up – through the country and distributed alms – 100 €! – and don’t even feel ashamed to let needy people enter Carinthia, just that they don’t have to lie in the dust. [[Abg. Kickl: Stop it...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Loud red!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Buyer]] [[Abg. Kickl: You can also make a request!]] Invented by Jörg Haider, continued by the President-in-Office of the State. The ladies and gentlemen in front of the television also know: If such people as you, Mr Kickl, are involved, then they can get on with it and beg for 100 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] This is the method of working with. That is why we are in favour of a legal claim for people who are poor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Stop it!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] That's why it's good that we have a minimum guarantee so that they don't have to get alms from people like you. We want them to get 744 €. We should be pleased that the minimum wages in the economy are so high today that there is enough distance to be an incentive. [[Abg. May. Honey: Explain this to them...!]] At this point I also congratulate the negotiators of the Chamber of Commerce and the trade union on the 1 300 € minimum wage in trade. [[Abg. May. Treasure: 1 186 plus 2.3 percent...!]] – 1 300 €, Mrs Colleague! In Schilling these are... – May I answer the call from you just before, so that the ladies and gentlemen also know what you are holding us? They say the minimum security would be too low. [[Abg. May. Honey: No, no!]] – €744, which was the union’s demand for the minimum wage seven years ago, namely €10 000. That is, €744 is a decent minimum guarantee. [[Call the Greens:No, minimum wage!]] The minimum wage of 1 300 € is approximately 20 000 S, and that is the part that is possible due to today's economic growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We are proud that both of them are possible in this country, and I am grateful to the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister for Finance that we have this situation, including minimum security. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now I know why you are no longer State Secretary: have been dropped due to error in the calculation!]] Back to the transparency database: No one has to be afraid of being subjected to a debate of envy. No one other than him can retrieve the data there. We produce personal and data protection, and we have provided the opportunity to carry out proper statistical work in the future. And then the Dörfler’s 100-€ alms may not be the right measure. If that comes out, Carinthia and FPÖ may also be moving. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9080	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9103	Mr President. High house! This most murky transparency database is a synonym of the policy of this red and black coalition. If you look at how big projects are being negotiated with red and black, you can't be surprised that the budget is as it stands. In the case of red and black, major projects, major announcements are negotiated for so long until nothing comes out except taxes on taxpayers, except additional costs. That's exactly how red and black politics works in this house. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us look at what the Minister of Finance has said today. He said immediately in the introduction that some countries have lived over their conditions, some countries have not started structural reforms, some countries have lived from one day to the next, and in all these countries taxpayers will ultimately pay the bill. [[Abg. Amon: And isn't that right? Isn't that right?]] - Which country did he mean? I know he spoke of Ireland, Portugal and Greece, but I know which country he really means: Austria! Because in Austria this works the same way: In Austria, no structural reforms are under way, from one day to the next, debt is made without a perspective that we can repay it sometime. That is exactly how politics works in Austria! That's exactly what we've been saying here for years: Again and again, we urge the current Finance Minister and the many other Finance Ministers of the ÖVP to see that something has to change here. [[Abg. Rädler: But in Carinthia you did it differently!]] Today, the Minister of Finance has given a statement of motivation – once again. Once again, he gave his motivational speech in which he explained to all of us for the x-th time: one cannot live on debt, one must finally address the administrative reform, one must address the educational reform, one must address all those reforms that we have been calling for for decades. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true!]] He gave this motivation speech again today, and I wonder who he wants to convince: We are convinced that the people in front of the television screens are also convinced, so who does he want to convince? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (shown on the ÖVP's bank series) ÖVP has crisis meeting by the way! For the protocol: the EIA has a crisis meeting! The Members...!]] Why has he been bringing the same speech over and over again for years? Again and again, he addresses the failures, the issue of not being able to live on debt. So I would recommend that the Minister of Finance give this speech again. I would really recommend the following: Keep this speech again, but do not give this speech here in the House, but at home in front of the mirror! There you can give this speech, because you are the one who needs to change it all, not us here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't need to convince us, you have to convince yourself! If I look at this speech, I think she's not from you at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] I believe that some of the employees are talking about this. You wrote, and I think he wants to tell you something about this speech. He wants to tell you through the flower the following: Mr. Finance Minister, lift your ass and get to work! – This is the message contained in this speech. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] After all, this budget speech is nothing but a series of open points! You have once again mentioned all the construction sites, you have mentioned all the failures of the past, but then there is nothing substantial, there are no reforms – there are tax increases, yes, there are, but no reforms – and above all there are no measures in the field of education that are really future-looking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] And if you make yourself here and say, We are wasting the future of our children!, then I say: Yes, we do. And who's to blame for that? [[Abg. Bucher: Pröll is responsible for this!]] Are we guilty of it or are you guilty of it? That's the central question. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why: Do something! But in addition to all your announcements and other flakes, you have also provided the excuse for your failure. You told us why you didn't do anything. They said – I quote literally –: That was the maximum possible in this coalition. - That's the point! You have big projects – and you have addressed the wrong developments. Then there will be negotiations between red and black until nothing remains. That's exactly the way you're doing politics, that's exactly what happened in the transparency database: You have announced great things – it was a sensible measure that you have announced here – and in the end nothing of it has been left. That is exactly the problem we have in this country! Therefore, dear ÖVP, dear SPÖ, see that you come to a green branch! It doesn't make sense if you pull on a strand, but in different directions! We must finally continue the reforms in this country. It makes no sense at all if you put each other a leg and therefore we do not continue to do anything in this country. If I look at this transparency database and that Murks behind it, good night for Austria, if in future all other future projects look like that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9234	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9255	Mr President. The gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was there when, in October last year, the Minister of Finance announced this database of transparency. At the first moment, I said: A reasonable story! [[Abg. Time-witnesses!]] But, Minister of Finance, what did you do about it? A useless thing to use at nothing, high costs, pure money destruction, no agreement with the 15a countries, uncertainty whether you get the data sets at all. And that only the recipient should have access to this data is actually a joke. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A database of transparency, as my colleague Podgorschek has already mentioned. From my point of view, the creation of the savings package and, ultimately, the budget was a lubrication comedy in many files. It began with a constitutional break, then came the sauna casts from Loipersdorf with Husch-Fusch tax packages and now this budget speech by Mr Pröll as an absolute low point for me. This federal government is characterised by the lack of concept, inexperience and power. [[Abg. Grill: That's what you're saying!]] In the announcement, our Finance Minister Pröll has always been a European champion, but in implementation he was always a dwarf. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, I am with you, if you say we must save our youth in the future, see that the debt is reduced, the interest is reduced – but you are doing exactly the opposite! We will certainly be able to talk a lot about it tomorrow; I will only tell you one thing: They have planned that the debt will rise from 200 billion to 230 to 240 billion € by 2014. That's not it! Interests will rise from € 8 billion to € 11 billion. Mr. Federal Minister, with the transparency you also hold it to the EU rescue package. From my point of view, it is simply objectionable that the Austrian taxpayer must now be deeply involved in the highly indebted Ireland. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 800 million euros in liability, or is it only 600? [[Abg. Strache: Low difference of 200!]] The Minister for Finance, I think, does not know exactly what the plans are. Ireland is in debt, although in the last 10 years €40 billion have come from the EU and large American companies have invested there because of the tax advantage – nevertheless Ireland is pleading! But, ladies and gentlemen, with the Freedom Party, is it spending tax money on securing Irish debts? – No, no, and again no! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it always means that these are only liabilities, these are not budget resources; they do not flow. – But if that is the case, I ask you, Mr Pröll: Why no liability for the universities? - Yes, that's his problem. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Pröll is no longer here!]] I ask you, Mr Pröll: Why don't you allow the Austrian universities to take credit? They urgently need €300 million, much less than Greece and Ireland. Why do you allow, for the second time, the ASFINAG not to borrow loans to build the Linz Westring? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There, €500 million is needed and not €2.2 billion as in the Greeks and €800 million in Irish. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] If we are talking about transparency, it is still to be mentioned that you, Minister of Finance, are concealing the fact that around the budget there is only a hint of the unmistakable, millions of difficult hurricanes that collide over the EU and the euro. If it is not possible to remedy the problem by trying to get the debtor states Ireland, Portugal and Greece out of association and to make a strong euro zone in the lead with Germany, then I see black for these finances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9374	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9395	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition is developing a strange view of things today. . I would, however, like to take the lead in advocating a tribute to Members: I think it is very unfair to explain the ÖVP explicitly to a party that would have nothing left for the fight against poverty, and I am opposed to such statements, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Honey: What are you doing for it? Tell me...! How do you fight poverty?]] Overall, it is strange today to see how the opposition is at once new against all, against any change: I want everything to stay the way it was. On the contrary! We, as the government parties, make changes, make for something new. [[Abg. Neubauer: The whole population stands...!]] After Mr Oellinger comes back, I can take a linguistic picture of him. He spoke about the coal cellar. – Yes, we light a first light in the coal cellar, we bring light into the dark. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of Parliament, Neubauer and Ölllinger.]] We want more transparency, we want more fairness and not – like you – everything in the old age. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A year ago, when Vice Chancellor Pröll presented the transfer account, as it was then called, there was enthusiastic agreement on the one hand, on the other hand it became impracticable, and as an attack on the socially needy, it was almost defunct. I hope that after this year at least some of them are convinced that the latter, namely an attack on the socially needy, is not, because this database of transparency, as it is now called, is, in my view, an important, good measure for greater justice and for greater fairness in our society, together with the minimum guarantee. In the future, it will be more difficult for promoters to knock on different places and to make money for one and the same thing. And I think one thing has been avoided, which also led to fears at the beginning of the debate, namely that there could be a debate of envy here. – It would have actually happened if anyone had been able to take an insight into everyone’s file. We have seen this very plastically in the publication of the agricultural services which were practically placed on the network, although the performance was opposite to a counter-performance. The publication of this data has rightly been tilted by the European Court of Justice for data protection reasons, so this database will not do exactly that, but only the person concerned and the body treating it will have access to it. In addition, there are many other things that this transparency account will be able to do, this transparency database. On the one hand, it will make it possible for the person concerned to provide evidence without problems. It will avoid double-tracking and, if necessary, additional payments, and it will also make it possible to define target groups more precisely through anonymized evaluations, to use promotions more efficiently and thereby also to use public funds more efficiently. – From my point of view, it is therefore also a contribution to administrative simplification. One obstacle has already been raised, namely that the countries still have to agree with this, but I am confident that this will succeed in bringing countries together and taking the country days to make the relevant decisions, because in the end, the countries on the social field and many other areas make important contributions to the individual, so that it makes sense to have them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] There were several fears that this might not work, and I think, realistically, one will also have to admit that this transparency account will need a start-up time and that one may have to wait for the practice to see how some work and what one may eventually need to change or redesign. I believe that the report, which will also be requested by us, by Parliament, by the competent minister every two years, will be an essential basis for this. In conclusion: If everything works as it is intended – and I assume that this will be the case – we will at least make a contribution to a more just social system, to more fairness in different economic areas and ultimately also to a simplification of administration. In total, then, this is a round-up, and I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to Mr Vice-Chancellor as a source of ideas and as a persistent implementer for this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9477	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9498	Mr President. [[Abg. Neubauer:... explain what a round thing is!]] Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Glaser pointed out earlier that the ÖVP was a party that is important for combating poverty, then of course the question arises, how can this be reconciled with reducing the budget for development cooperation by a quarter? - That's something unworthy! This is a step that is really a shame for a country as wealthy as Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen from ÖVP and SPÖ, you have mentioned several times today that this transparency database should help to avoid double tracking, improve controlling and achieve greater efficiency. In this context, I would like to focus on the issue of corporate support, which is very rich in Austria. There are about € 15.3 billion, of which most, 9 billion, come from the federal government and the rest of the countries and municipalities and social security funds. So what is closer than finally introducing a system to be able to use the resources well and efficiently – in the sense of a modern, an innovative, a sustainable ecological economy! But now the question is: What actually happens? – The fact that economic promotion is not always efficient, which shows many studies and evaluations, and one of the most absurd projects that we have been able to experience in recent months, was certainly the scrap premium, into which twenty million have flown. This project has been clearly referred to by all experts as total nonsense. The purchases have been preferred, the money has been squandered – all this should ultimately not happen in a good funding structure. In order to provide information on this aid, it would be urgent to set up a support bank for business-related support, but this is not even done in this form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] More precisely, this project has not only seen the opposition – as we have noted in the current debate so far, it seems to have considered it much more precise than the Members of Parliament from the government parties – but also there are legitimate criticisms from the Ministry of Economic Affairs or also from the Court of Auditors. With regard to the aid jungle and subsidies in the Austrian business sector and the possibility of actually introducing an efficient controlling, the Ministry of Economic Affairs makes it quite clear in its opinion that: “It is not clear from the draft text of the law, however, how the controlling of double funding can work.” – This is what the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself says. A certificate of poverty for the bill, which you want to have decided today from the point of view of control and efficiency! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Court of Auditors also points out in its opinion that this draft does not really have something to do with us in the area you are constantly quoting today, because you believe that this is the way in which we are getting to an efficient funding system. In a comprehensive way, the Court of Auditors notes that it is a serious mistake that it is not already stated in the bill that, for example, countries and municipalities must also provide data to increase efficiency, but only rely on a 15a agreement. Similarly, the Court notes that multi-funding cannot be recognised and avoided in this form. Summa summarum: A long debate has been held on this subject, particularly intensively in committee, and you have always used the credo: Openness, transparency, controlling and efficiency. – The Ministry itself, many other institutions and the Court of Auditors confirm to you that this government template is not even nearer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9554	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9575	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For now, I make the following request – a purely formal act: [[Quoted print version removed]] This finalises the government template. Now go back to the roots. – Who is the authors in this whole transparency discussion and development? Who has the real copyright? Who has launched the first initiatives, ladies and gentlemen? As early as 2003, we tried to set up a permanent subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, with the creation of a permanent subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This has prevented you, Mr Strache, and your FPÖ at the time. We did not move on at all, in 2003 everything was blocked by black and blue. To this end, Mr Finanzminister has to assume that he took up this issue again in the previous year – however, only one-sided: only the workers, the commuters, only the families, only the care providers – or the companies, the promotions of the economy, agriculture? Finally, the SPÖ has prevailed and the ÖVP has convinced itself that not only the transfer payments, but also, of course, the subsidies and subsidies must be clarified. For example, if you look at the options of the Economic Research Institute for the consolidation of public budgets in Austria from February 2010, it is already significant that at € 15.5 billion a year – the Economic Research Institute says – funding would be possible to save € 850 million without disturbing anyone or affecting the labour market or economic growth in the short term. Of course, that's huge. The Federal Legislator, ladies and gentlemen, is well known not only in the world, but there is also an EU. And now, not wrongfully, the European Court of Justice has said that individual data may be published in the field of agriculture. That's all right, but it's repairable. Of course, the Council and the Commission must also act here and try to ensure transparency so that EU funds do not flow to the wrong places. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that there are areas in which millions of large amounts of support are spent on agriculture, but which are not at all related to various commercial enterprises. Of course, we also need the support of the countries – that is clear – because subsidies not only flow through the federal government, but, of course, through the countries and through the municipalities. Speaking of countries, a note on administrative reform: What is not discussed here, commented, philosophyd, even polemized! A lot of criticism is right, but also a lot of criticism of injustice, ladies and gentlemen! So many ideas are very good – I remember, for example, the initiative of Mr. Health Minister Stöger, that the hospitals should finally fall into federal competence – but some ideas are again white nonsense. The decision of this transparency database law today is an important step and a start-up signal with regard to the administrative reform. It brings more economic efficiency, more economy and efficiency in the public sector and is also the basis for improved use of resources and for SPÖs also a basis for argumentation for greater distribution justice, because on the basis of data, we will be able to discuss tax reform more targeted next year. The Minister of Finance announced this discussion today in his budget speech. It will be a relief of work, ladies and gentlemen, for a discharge of the middle class and, of course, for further steps in the taxation of assets. Five points have been implemented by social democracy – banks, shares, foundations, among others – and three points are still open: asset taxation for assets over € 1 million, manager salaries, financial transaction tax. The first stage has been successful, the second stage must follow next year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Lauter Blabla!]] What about the transparency of the parties? . Mr Westenthaler, you have signed this, because the negotiations have long been completed. For donations over €7 000, there is a party agreement, all five parties will publish in the future. There will be sanctions and the results will be made transparent through the Court of Auditors and Parliament. The entry into force of the transparency database law will succeed in a timely way – that is, a round thing, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, you should get a little more informed before you pool around here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9633	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9654	Mr Vorsprechner! Mr Westenthaler has not given up anything, for which your group has given your speech. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That was remarkable; Mr Oellinger and I were the only ones who ever listened to him. The speech on the transparency database that we have heard today, which the Minister of Finance has postponed, and at all his entire budget speech reminded me of a work of German literature, namely “The new sufferings of young W.” by Ulrich Plenzdorf. “The new sufferings of young P. – the young P. is the young Pröll – could be called them. All the time, just Larmoyanz, what he's doing. On Sunday he has to save Ireland and thus the euro, then he also has to save the economy, he has to save the families, and then he gets as bad survey values as the voters are. You really feel sorry for him, but he has had the most pity on himself. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, except he himself doesn't feel sorry for him! First, he is paid high for it, and second, he has done nothing at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What he has said today was not the budget speech of a Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, but the justification of a pitched banking minister and nothing else! The Minister of Finance, out of office and the Minister of Banking, now wants a transparency database account; “Bank” is one of his favorite terms at all, which is his biggest reference size. – One could say to any other finance minister, yes, he should have, he should know what people get in transfers. But at the banking minister Pröll, I find it difficult to give him such an instrument. So that he can squeak the citizens out even more? – I don't think about it! If anyone prefers to save Irish, British, German and French banks and no longer has a heart for the Austrian families, then he has not earned a transparency database account, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] High house! The Minister of Banking Pröll suffers at all from a serious mistake in speaking, which many lost virgins say: He can't say no once he's in Brussels. As soon as he is in Brussels, he no longer knows how to spell “No”; he could also do it in English, then it would be shorter – “no” – but he does not make it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! He can't say no. This is about the “smallness” of € 85 billion, to which € 800 million will have to be spent on the Austrians. It's really hard for him to say no. He can't either. No, when it comes to Turkey. The pre-accession aid for Turkey is at least €4.8 billion. In 2012, Turkey, which is said never to become a member of the EU, receives €900 million pre-accession aid. Has anyone here in this House ever heard Mr Pröll say no? - Not me! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where does all this money grow?]] But I heard that he No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I heard he says no to the needs of single mothers. I have heard that he says no to the training needs of the Austrian students and students. I have heard that he says no to the survival struggle of this country's medium-sized economy, ladies and gentlemen! To all of this he has to be at once No in stock – in Brussels he does not think so! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is why I say that such a minister of finance cannot be given a transparency database account so that he can challenge the Austrians even more easily. With all due understanding of his self-pity and understanding of today's self-therapy, which he delivered in his budget speech: He doesn't get a transparency database account! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] – Finally, an intermediate call from the SPÖ. Please, who was that? [[Abg. May. Josef Auer can be seen by handsigns.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ah yes, there's one up there, ladies and gentlemen! Everyone slept with the herbs, now finally a red one wakes up. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] May I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the most unsocial thing to do if one loses one's own citizens, namely those who are least able to carry it, namely the socially weak, and saves English, German, French banks instead, at a time when the English do not even remember to do something to help themselves. Because that's what I'm looking at, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka has said grandly in the main committee that the British are already going to do something to help. Although they are not in the euro, they have a special discount for EU membership since thatcher's times, they will now grant their own credit for saving British banks. What generosity, ladies and gentlemen! I'd give you some advice: First of all, teach the British that they should put their financial market in London in order – in that case all these crimes have been committed for which Austrian and European taxpayers are to be associated today – before we talk about saving British banks! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. Don't say that I didn't say anything about the transparency database, it was enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9754	For the next round of speakers, 4 minutes of speaking time is available. Mr Linder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9778	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the transparency database and the SPÖ says that it is actually the inventor of the transparency database, but on the other hand the ÖVP has blocked the transparency database for farmers a week ago, I really do not know exactly who stands for it or if you both are just playing the balls with each other. In total, however, it is really true that we need a database of transparency that meets their name. We in the communities are also constantly faced with the situation that citizens of us need services, that we want to help the citizens, and that we are constantly confronted with the fact that we do not know: If they get double, triple benefits, are they transferred, or do they really need it and is it urgent that the communities stand by them? That is why we are calling for: If a transparency database, then open up that all institutions can take a look at how to ensure performance justice and distribution justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to see the same transparency for the Court of Auditors' control so that the communities and the countries will be really comparable from the debts, because then Mr Hörl would no longer have the courage to talk about Carinthia here from the speaker's desk, when it is known that Tyrol has doubled its debts once it is known that Carinthia is already no longer the debtor of debt, that Lower Austria or Styria are much higher than Carinthia, because we in Carinthia are very likely to see that we get our budget under control, but do not neglect the family benefits. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Carinthia is one of those countries that pay the highest family benefits: Baby money, mother money, youth start-up, school start-up. We open our national gas stations so that citizens can drink cheaper. We also pay a price compensation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Carinthia spends 0.1 percent of GDP on family benefits, regardless of institutional childcare, Upper Austria only more than 0.03 percent and Salzburg only 0.01 percent. I mean, in contrast to the Federal Government, which shrinks the families that take away money from the families, Carinthia shows that it does not bring the money for budget recovery to the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear colleague Matznetter, who criticizes you today that our head of state Gerhard Dörfler is feeding the families with 100 €, giving the families 100 €! Perhaps it's just what the SPÖ has lost: to recognize what 100 € for families who deserve very little, who really have problems making children a small gift for Christmas, for families who have little income, or for families who don't have a bank account anymore because it's locked. [[Abg. Strache: The Matznetter buys around 100 € a Achterl red wine!]] At least in the Christmas season, you should give these families 100 €! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyone can get the 100 €, he can either pay them out personally or ask them normally via a form. Not about it but so many people go personally: because they are looking for contact with our country politicians and because they get the money quickly and unbureaucratically into their hands. Perhaps the SPÖ will learn how important it is to talk to people and accept their problems. We in Carinthia do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9852	The amendment tabled earlier by the honourable Member is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9898	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9919	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to clarify a number of points on the part of my group because of a number of debates which have not dealt with the transparency database, but rather with the budget. We know from the past few years that the location determines the position. In other words, after one of the most severe economic and financial crises, the government presents a forward-looking budget, and the opposition goes, criticised, criticised and criticised. Do you know what I miss in your criticism? – These are the solutions. There are no solutions. They're going out here and they're just criticizing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: You're in government!]] Mr Linder, with all friendship, to you as a Carinthian: Carinthia is the most runaway state in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Stop...!]] In the last decades, first liberal, then BZÖ, now FPK – managed! We as the whole of Austria must create a rescue shield so that we do not have to let this federal state go. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And you stand out here and criticise this forward-looking budget policy of our Minister of Finance?- Oh, my God! This is an increase of the Austrians. Go home! Do your homework, see that you're putting your budget in order once, then you can keep talking inside here! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's a sense of what you're doing here. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Chief of State Pröll has the highest per capita debt! Hypo Lower Austria!]] Where are your proposals? – Administrative reform! The word ‘administrative reform’ always comes from time to time. This is the all-healing remedy for the opposition, so we are apparently putting the budget under control for the next few decades. Do you even know that the administrative reform has been under way since Chancellor Schüssel, since the year 2000? – 33 000 officials were saved between 2000 and 2006. It is a deregulation process with the countries, with the communities in progress. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Kickl.]] Look at this! In Upper Austria, for example, 500 posts in the public service will not be re-occupied next year. [[Abg. Kickl: Empty pockets!]] These are efforts for the countries, including the municipalities. So don't make yourself here and just mention a keyword: ‘Administrative reform’. As if you could solve the budgetary problems! Ladies and gentlemen, it will not work. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] In addition, 40 measures are included in this budget, which clearly address the administrative reform, where proposals have also been made by the federal states and the municipalities. Second point – to the Greens: Combating poverty. We are accused here of doing nothing for the fight against poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here in this House decided on a need-oriented minimum guarantee, which was also criticised and criticised by the population. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We have decided to up to € 744, and that twelve times a year. Twelve times a year! Our Minister of Finance has put great emphasis on this, that we don't pay 14 times, but 12 times, because we want to have a proper distance to someone who goes to work for 40 hours and has a wage, a salary of 1 000, 1 200, 1 300 € net. That is our concern, ladies and gentlemen. We are committed to those people who, with their taxpayers' money, make it possible to fill those pots so that we can also pay out the social benefits. These are the ones that we need to get ahead of us, ladies and gentlemen, also in the context of a budget debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 10 percent of payroll taxpayers – about 350 000 people – account for 50 percent of total wage and income tax revenue, around € 11 billion. We must thank them, ladies and gentlemen, for they enable us to have a social state in Austria, that we have one of the highest rates in the social field, and that we are doing well overall in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Performance must pay off! – You can find this principle in the budget on each page.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10077	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöginger, the speech was warring, but unfortunately it was in the wrong direction. [[Abg. Amon: An excellent speech! Don't do it!]] Don't worry, the next time it's gonna get better. I would like to continue where Mr Westenthaler has stopped. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] He told the story with the Hornberger shooting. Mr Westenthaler, the story with the Hornberger Schießen continues. So Hornberg: The duke is heading to Hornberg, on his way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The Hornbergers await him, want to greet him with a solemn shoot and honor him. [[Abg. Wheeler: Look!]] The Hornbergers remember, there's something coming up, it's a post-coach. Salut will be shot. There's a scratch. Salut will be shot. There's a cattle herd coming. It's gonna shoot salut again. The powder is consumed. Off. But then you didn't count. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then the Duke comes!]] – The Duke really comes, and the powder was shot. They couldn't shoot anymore. [[Abg. Rädler: fairy talers!]] And that's what it says in history: Some Hornbergers tried to imitate the cannon donor by roaring. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And here we are probably in the next few minutes, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, when I join with what Mr Lindner from the Ex-BZÖ, FPK, has now told you about Carinthia, paradise and the measure of justice. [[Call the FPÖ:Linder!]] [[Abg. Neubauer:... to tell nothing!]] I would say that the brothers probably benefit most from the transparency database. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They benefit in that – and the colleague of the SPÖ has pointed out – when there will no longer be any public data from the EU agricultural database in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Hungarian BMWs are not recorded there!]] Then you can no longer read that the brothers Kurt and Uwe Scheuch have received a lot of funding because they have such a low income as farmers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Hungarian BMWs are not listed!]] This was an income support received by colleagues Scheuch, Kurt and Uwe Scheuch – from the resources of the EU agricultural database. [[Abg. That's wrong! Absolutely incorrect!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Part of the game”!]] And you know what? – Even despite the transparency database, or precisely because of this transparency database, we will probably not know that Mr Kurt Scheuch, who is obviously a needy farmer and has only a few hectares of land in common with his brother, on whom he has to work, has applied for an income as a clubman in the Kärntner Landtag for his group, saying: I have no other income, so I want the higher income than the clubman. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Part of the game”!]] There are two categories of income in the Carinthian Landtag: higher income than clubman – you only get this if you have no other income – and a lower income. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] He has requested this higher, although the EU agricultural database knows that the good man is paying EU support because he has such a low income as a farmer. But he's cashing. And of course he has income as well as his brother, the Lord... [[Abg. Strache: As a clubman you have a professional ban! Did you get away with this, Mr. Ollinger?]] [[Abg. Amon: No!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Not in the Landtag!]] No, no, no, There's no professional ban. Please read it, or ask him! Ask him! But in all cases this is a good example of how this database of transparency will not work, because Mr Kurt and Mr Uwe Scheuch leave it out of the herb. And that's fatal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10357	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10399	Mr President. High house! It is of course true that the Scheuch brothers, the Carinthians rule as if this were their farm, are certainly to be criticized. Anyone who loves this country – and I belong to it; I really love Carinthia because it is a beautiful country – is always touched when someone comes out and acts as if there were paradisiacal conditions. Landscape: yes. From the diligent people: yes. But from politics: no! You have to say this in all clarity. If you're taught here that true paradisiacal politics is in Carinthia, especially if someone who doesn't know what he has in front of his name anymore because of his political soul migration – is it FPK, is it blue, is it orange?; no one knows it anymore – but then it should always be very humble, because the whole Republic with its budget and taxpayers must carry this 18 billion € arrest for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. You should never forget that the budgetary catastrophic situation in Carinthia also affects the future of Carinthia. You don't need to get out of here and give great teachings. That's what you're really saying! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But I have spoken because Mr Kickl cannot distinguish between the transfer account and the transparency database here. Mrs Oberhauser has already mentioned this in her speech. What you have hidden is that there has been a long, long way between the start of the discussion to the transfer account and the transparency database. [[Abg. Kickl: Getting Worse!]] Now, as an opposition representative, you should actually say it's going in the right direction, it's about transparency, it's about seeing if there are double and triple promotions, it's about not being jealously "turning around", but just about ensuring clarity. [[Abg. Kickl: In the wrong!]] If economic support in Austria is one of the highest if agricultural support is one of the most important, but if we also have social transfers that we always discuss here, defend and say, even in difficult times, it must be preserved so that there is money available in the money pockets of the Austrians, so that all this is preserved in order to reduce also distrust, then, I believe, it makes sense that there is a database of transparency, which really makes it possible in the future. [[Abg. Kickl: Stop it!]] I now share the criticism of many here that it is not yet a mature, ideal model. I share this view, not a question, but one should assume that there are at least several steps in the right direction, that now the reality of the data must come, that the countries will now pass on their data – this is being too little debated here – and that there is a contribution that will help all to help to ensure that this transparency database really gets meat on the bones, so that it is really made clear. Opposition work also lives on transparency. I wonder what nonchalance you get out of here, just do it down, give a few polemics to today's budget speech – you can do it tomorrow – and that's it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] No, it doesn't make sense. [[Abg. Kickl: You should decide on a position! You can't!]] You should respect that there has been real progress here since we discussed this issue in the House, from the transfer account to the transparency database. This is not an ideal model yet, but we will continue to ensure that this will be an ideal model. Last point – to the colleague Stadler –: Although I share the criticism of what is happening in the UK and what methods are being used in Ireland in part, they themselves are responsible for the situation, but you yourself – all inside here, five parties – have voted in favour of the bank liability package. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Why? – In the 100-billion package, you were all there because you understood that it was not going on with broken banks. That's it! And you should really take this to heart before you get out of here and criticize it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10523	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10544	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a Carinthian, I can hold the following in the direction of the SPÖ and the Clubman Cap: First: Please note that Carinthia is not Scheuch-Land! The Carinthians can't do anything to ensure that the Scheuch brothers have committed election fraud and have a wrong policy in Carinthia, and they will – you can rely on it – also give the Scheuch brothers the corresponding rejection during the next country election. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: He was too much in the solarium, Mr. Petzner!]] Second correcting the SPÖ budget speaker, Matznetter, who turns out here in original form and claims that Carinthia has – quote – 20 billion euros in debt. . I don't think the incompetence of a budget speaker can be expressed better. There are no 20 billion € debts in Carinthia, but there are default liabilities for the Landesbank. It has nothing to do with debt. The federal state with the highest indebtedness, ladies and gentlemen at home, so that you also know, is the Pröll country, the ÖVP country of Lower Austria. The highest debt of all federal states has Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and not Carinthia. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This is the truth that you also need to take note of, and the government debt committee has also stated this in its official figures, even if you do not like it. A short sentence on the transparency database. This is also an example of the budget, ladies and gentlemen, because this bill shows that the courage in the implementation of the Federal Government has not only left half way, but already after the first few steps. The objectives that this transparency database should achieve will in no way be achieved. There are high costs, but no effect, the countries and communities are not involved, and this clearly does not achieve the goal of combating social abuse and preventing what was also our concern. Mr Cap has today given a very clear recommendation to all 183 Members to vote against this bill by admitting for himself that he understands the criticism of all parties and is even entitled to do so. He himself has literally said here: It is not a mature model. We need to keep working on it. In doing so, you have fully confirmed the statement of Mr Westenthaler in the Committee that it is a model that is not ready for decision. It's not ready to decide, it's a husch fuch, it's not a transparency database, it's a plant pairing database, which we're sure we won't give the consent here, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also invite the SPÖ Members to vote against this database of transparency, because it is not a mature model. A sentence to the budget. For me, the following statement by the Minister of Finance was significant in his budget speech. The central statement was the admission of his failure. He has literally explained and admitted that he had to observe that he has not implemented many of his own announcements – and I only mention here the example of this conclave in terms of administrative and state reform, where negotiations should be held until white smoke rises – that he has not achieved his own set goals and that he has not implemented what he has done. I have never seen a better, more unprecedented declaration of bankruptcy and an explanation of the failure of a Finance Minister in the context of a budget speech, ladies and gentlemen. This was also a confession of openness and truth, which the Minister of Finance has made here today, which is why we will certainly not give this budget to the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10615	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10636	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! High house! Now is the time for us to finally start correcting the feuds of this federal government. The ÖVP represents the corporations here, represents Raiffeisen, but betrays the families, betrays the farmers, but represents someone else: It represents Ireland, it represents Portugal, and it has already represented Greece very well. With such a concrete party we must finally stand together, there must be no stone left on the other. If you only take agriculture, you see, 17 percent of farmers cash 80 percent of all subsidies. Who are these 17 percent? – These are the ÖVP artists, these are foundations, these are millionaires, these are large-scale industrialists. [[Abg. Oils: The Sheep!]] We'll have to rework that very quickly. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] We must ensure that 80 percent of farmers receive 100 percent, we must not promote large-scale industries and the rich. That is why I would like to make a quick request, because now more than 4,000 farms are affected by the failure of the AMA to comply with its checks, and this does not mean that autumn funding is paid out. These holdings are massively at risk of their existence. We need to help right away, so the ÖVP can also show that it is helping. Especially in the light of the transparency database, I am looking for all of you to agree, because the farmers are completely innocent. That's what the AMA has to answer on its own. These delayed payouts result in people need loans. It is now the duty of the Federal Government to take over interest on these loans. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I beg you: I agree, it is about the existence of the farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10694	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is being debated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10752	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10784	Mr President. In his speech, the honourable Member and senior teacher Matznetter claimed that 1 300 € minimum wage is 20 000 Austrian schilling – in old currency. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I correct: 1 300 € gross minimum wage makes 17 888 schilling in old currency, and that in addition gross. 1 300 € gross are approximately good 1 000 € net minimum wage. – That’s really not much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10814	Mr Grosz spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10835	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! I put to the vote the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Bucher, ing. Westenthaler and Ing. Lugar [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Krainer]] The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to submit to the National Council an immediate amendment proposal for the transparency database law, which, on the one hand, standardises the transfer of the transparency database to the financial offices and, on the other, the settlement of all transfers by the financial offices. Furthermore, the right of the authorities to understand the transfer accounts of the beneficiaries is to be incorporated. In addition, the Federal Minister for Finance is invited to conclude a 15a agreement with the countries ensuring that the countries and municipalities also have to disclose their transfers and report to the transparency database.’ Ladies and gentlemen, since 9 o'clock we have experienced a litany of untruth in this house. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] The Minister of Finance put 43 pages into question: the untruth that he would relieve the people of that country in any way – instead he burdened them –; the untruth that he has not chosen the way in this budget that the President of the Court of Auditors has proposed to save €3 billion in the system and €3 billion in the administration and finally put together the social security institutions in that country. It has made a break with the population by once again putting pressure on the families, once again by burdening the commuters and the small and medium-sized economy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The TV transmission is already over!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The highlight – honourable Member Cap – of the untruth, the litany of untruth here in this House is that you come out here and claim that this House, this National Council, would have agreed to the rescue shield for Ireland. You have the cutting and here you claim that five parliamentary groups have agreed to the recently decided rescue shield for Ireland. [[Abg. That's how it is!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Listen to shout!]] Do you know what distinguishes the parliamentary parties? – That we look at the Austrian taxpayers' taxpayers' money and that we would never have allowed you and your government and your audited Finance Minister in Brussels to agree to this mistake and lead the European financial and business to the debt tower again. We are not involved in this untruth, and we will not participate in this madness you are planning across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10931	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10999	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We first come to the vote on the request of Members of Parliament to refer the draft law on the transparency of the database law to the Financial Committee in 1000 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this referral request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1000 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment which concerns amendments to the table of contents. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever joins this bill, I ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huber, fellow Members, on the reimbursement of the financing costs for late-paid support due to untimely AMA checks. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr De Keersmaeker, on the renewal and sensible design of the transparency database. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:05:24]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (922 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Banking Act (1001 d.a.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (982 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing an e-money law in 2010 and amending the Banking Act, the Payment Services Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Commercial Code 1994, the Consumer Protection Act, the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act and the Federal Finance Act (1002 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (983 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Increase of the New Credit Agreements with the International Monetary Fund (1003 d.a.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (943 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bulgaria on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets, including Protocol (1004, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11130	We now come to points 3 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11157	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it is positive to judge that a law is creates the issue of establishing uniform rules for the remuneration policy of banks – keywords: Bonus payments and manager salaries. A remuneration committee is to be set up to set up objectives and principles under which managers will receive bonus payments in the future. It is also useful to aim for longer-term business success. This will stop the speculation of such rulerships, which has ultimately led to the crisis – and which has also led us to deal with this law now and here. I would like to point out a few weaknesses – although we will in principle agree with this matter. For example, it is established that members of the remuneration committee should have practical experience, with expertise. What will result from this in practice? Of course, the discussion with the FMA will begin, which is the necessary expertise, which skills are actually needed. Most strongly, I think, the law should still work in the direction that such a kind of awareness-building will take place among those responsible who enter into negotiations with future managers, so when it comes to negotiation of management contracts. But I do not think that much will change the fact that the time horizon of such managers is usually limited only with their working period. A second law that is being passed here today – however, where we say that it is still too unforgivable and will lead to nothing – is the e-money law. In 2002, this law was already introduced and it has remained practically ineffective, because too many side-by-side conditions have caused it to fail. Now the payment service law, which is also a year old, is being applied, and no single payment institution has yet been granted a concession. We're just seeing a too tight market there. There will be a further spread of the e-money, and it will continue to be reserved for commercial banks and foreign institutions to work in this area, because certain rules – such as requirements for the security of customer funds – are also lacking. Insurance solutions or trust accounts have proved to be not practical, simply because of the narrowness of the market; and I do not see there either, I say now, the will of the large commercial banks, which, so to speak, gain a competition. It will continue to be a very narrow market and therefore we will not be available for this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11206	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11227	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the present draft amendment to the Banking Act, one first has to hide back to the great global financial crisis, which undoubtedly has had a wide variety of causes: the subprime crisis in the USA as a trigger, world economic imbalances due to different competitiveness, such as between the USA and China, lack of efficiency international financial market surveillance authorities and an over-indebted state debt of many countries. However, there is also an area which was not a trigger of the crisis, but which has already intensified the trend of crisis, some of which – especially on Wall Street – have been schemes for bonuses payments to bank managers who have worked in accordance with the following principle: If you take a high risk and it goes well, you have a high bonus if it goes beyond that, the taxpayer is asked to cash! I mean, that can't be it, of course. It can't be that one says: Okay, high risk, high bonus, in the positive case, the manager gets him, in the bad case the taxpayer has to be asked for cash! There is no doubt that a rule has to be introduced, with a global solution of course being the best, just as the financial crisis was a global one, but it is already a step forward that we have at EU level a directive at European level, which sets out important standards for remuneration schemes, especially with regard to the sustainability of business results and the coordination of remuneration schemes with sound, serious risk management. What we are doing today, what we want to decide today, is to incorporate these EU directives into our law with their regulations, which are very precise and punctual, which should apply to such compensation schemes in the future. I think this is a really important contribution, and I say again: Even if other things are perhaps more important, for example, a new financial market architecture, a stronger control of financial markets, no question at all, this is an important part of the matter, because there is no doubt that crisis trends can be heightened by such regulations! If you read again today – that's not for us – what is already being paid for billions of dollars on Wall Street, then I have to say, of course, that the average citizen lacks any understanding of this – all the more for the reason that the taxpayer is asked to cash when it goes by. This has ultimately led to the whole crisis. I would also like to say one thing because we are currently having the crisis in Ireland and nobody knows when Portugal may be following. Greece is still there. I think you have to find one thing: It is not the evil speculators who are driving up interest rates, but in fact the financial markets are testing the credibility of politics! One has to be so honest, to say, the Euroreturn umbrella is incredibly important for stabilisation, for calming down, but the financial markets will not really recognize the efforts until they see that the success of consolidation actually ceases. That is why, I think, it is very good that we had today, on the one hand, the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, where we contribute to fiscal consolidation, as a guarantee of the future for our youth, on the other hand, but also with this regulation, the Banking Act, on the other hand, that in the future no compensation schemes for bank managers will help to strengthen a crisis. In this sense, I hope for broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11278	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11300	Mr President. High house! I have tabled a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Mag. In the case of Stadler, creating a key Europe in the context of the ongoing financial disaster in euro Member States and the risks posed by it to the euro. I'm going to explain this briefly in the main lines: The financial crisis of the States is spreading. Greece is now coming to Ireland, Portugal, probably Spain, perhaps sometime Italy. That means it's a barrel without soil, just as we used to say that again and again. We have now already transferred €600 million to Greece, €600 million, which goes to the budget, which, of course, would be much better lifted in Austria, and we will transfer € 190 million in January – and that in view of the fact that many experts are already convinced that Greece will argue that this is just a matter of time. Greece has made 3 per cent less this year, not as far as the budget is concerned, but 3 per cent less in terms of economic performance. That is, if this continues, Greece will never come back to its feet, and most economists see it that way. That means we'll never see our money again. What is the Ministry of Finance doing now? – The Ministry of Finance does not believe all these experts who say that the money is lost forever, no, the Ministry of Finance is sure, and the Ministry of Finance – and this is a report – has, before the money has been transferred to Greece, sent a sample euro to Greece to see if it is safe. That means – you have to imagine that! –: ==References== May 1 € transferred to see if it really arrived there and whether all of these payment methods are thus safe. So they believed that this would disappear in a black hole or at the end of this data line was an interruption and that is why we made this sample transfer and then we also found afterwards: All right, the money's good, the money's good, so you don't have to worry at all! That's exactly the point: We're paying! Yes, make it clear to a mother who is now getting less money for her children why she does not get her money, but is transferred the money to Greece! Make You tell her clearly and ask if she wants to do so! – I can tell you: No one wants that! No one wants to transfer his money to Greece without knowing whether it really comes back, and therefore: Let's stop this transfer union! We don't need a transfer union. What we need is a core Europe. We need a core Europe of those countries that are sure that their budget will be in order, which will show an economic performance that can also be maintained with the other countries. That's what we need! And anything else can then find place in a partnership or in a “European Union light” accordingly. And whatever we need, that's definitely a departure from this bet-to-money price. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We save everyone and everyone, and ultimately the question arises: Then who saves the saviour? One thing is also quite certain in this Republic: Figures will be the taxpayer – and the “good” already today!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11370	Mr Lugar, please say one or two sentences to explain the request. They have not in themselves – I have read the request through – explained anything. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Please tell the microphone, not me! - One, two sentences, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11407	I would like to say one more, two sentences. I already said a lot about this, but you didn't understand. You can read it in the application. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, good. So, I say the key points again: The European Union's capacity to accept must not be over-stretched, we must involve the countries according to their strengths, and I also said that. We need a special partnership and association agreement – and I have said so – and we need a core Europe – that is what I have said here, and a fundamental consensus. I didn't say that, but I said now, and that's probably going to fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11450	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and, as a result of its length, it has been adopted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 Rules of Procedure are already distributed to all Members and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11602	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11623	Ladies and gentlemen! We have not heard for the first time today in the budget speech that the budget for development cooperation will shrink. I say once again that I think this is very embarrassing, and a small, but really very, very small, compensation for the very poor performance in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is what is happening today in the area of finance, that we will support the International Monetary Fund with higher contributions and that multilateral development cooperation. But, as has been said, this is not a compensation for the fact that it really looks very, very bad in the bilateral area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right! That's right!]] The increase today, particularly in the International Monetary Fund, is due to the fact that the international financial institutions have reacted relatively quickly to the financial crisis, to the economic crisis in 2008 and 2009 and that they have supported many countries in stabilising their balance of payments. On the basis of this stronger claim by the International Monetary Fund, however, the lending potential of the same currency has also been greatly strengthened, and in order to avoid liquidity bottlenecks in the future, the State community has agreed to increase the framework for a new credit agreement through the so-called “New Arrangements to Borrow”. With our Austrian share, which we will decide today, we contribute to the expansion of the IMF funds, we contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals, and we also demonstrate our international solidarity in the field of multilateral EZA, which is certainly also an efficient way to reach developing countries in general. As important as I think it is that we support the International Funding Institutions, I also think it is important to continue the discussion on what needs to be changed in their working methods and frameworks. From my point of view, it is essential that they become much more sensitive to the demands of environmental, human rights, social standards, gender and truly coherent development policies in the choice of their instruments. I'm just saying, The construction of coal-fired power plants with funds coming from the IFIs is more than obsolete because we will not stop climate warming in this way. Measures to set up human rights, women's rights, indigenous rights, make substantial use of minorities in order to finance any projects that eventually result in, for example, the food sovereignty of the countries being undermined only because it needs anything on agricultural products that can also be exported can no longer be viable conditionality, can no longer be modern policy. Also, the demand for liberalisation and for privatisation is not a modern development policy. With all the support of these international financial instruments, it is still important to invest a great deal of strength in modernising them and adapt them to the new demands. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11675	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11696	Mr President. High house! Dear friends at the TV gallery! - These are my friends from the tennis club. - I'm glad you're here! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of gallery) How does he play?]] [[Call from the gallery: Good!]] One word to Mrs Bayr: I am full of you that it would be important to equip development cooperation with more money, but it looks very bad in Austria as far as the finances are concerned. It is known that one can only give if one has something to give, and the state, unfortunately, only owes God at the moment and can certainly not afford further expenses in this direction. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There he needs more than 3 minutes when the tennis club is there!]] I would like to say that the credit agreement and the International Monetary Fund are against the increase in this credit line for the International Monetary Fund, because the entire history of liability and support is a non-soil-free fixture. According to the Greek problems, it is now the Irish who are in trouble, and in turn the EU and the International Monetary Fund are called upon to help. In my view, it is a horror development, for who are the next candidates who are looking for money from healthy states? – Portugal, Spain or perhaps even Italy. But then we are done, ladies and gentlemen, we do not raise that! It is €800 million of liabilities for Ireland – the Minister of Finance is not sure, is it perhaps only €600 million? I have already mentioned that he may have lost the overview of these things. But one thing is certain: All these support goes at the taxpayer's expense, and that must not be! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, right!]] We do not agree. We're a hundred percent against that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From our point of view, this easy-to-use guarantee at the expense of the taxpayer is scandalous and irresponsible – a barrel without a floor! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of how Greece looks: 2,3 billion € Credit, 4 billion € Credit from the National Bank, 15 billion € Liabilities for Greece through Austria, a total of 21.3 billion €. And now it's the Irish: €8 million Liabilities and other things that will come. In Greece, one must suspect and fear that this billion, which we have lent and given there, will be a loss. That's to fear – it would be bad enough! Why are these fragile euro countries so bad? – There are different, historically grown economic areas which are subject to different framework conditions. In the euro area, 16 economies that do not fit together have been pushed into a concept. Auxiliary packages cannot eliminate market distortions – this is a gross distortion of cause and effect – at best they can delay. We of the Freedom Party and many of our fellow citizens follow from it: The European Monetary Union should be left out of those countries whose macroeconomic indicators show such strong outrages that they should not be a member of the optimal monetary area and dependent on the help of others. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would be the real help of Greece. Then they could float with their currencies again, as they did in the past. In the “Kronen Zeitung” of the 28th century. In November, Kurt Seinitz addressed this issue and, among other things, carried out: The new construction of a hard core Europe, which is a fixed candidate, is necessary: Germany, Austria, Luxembourg and the Netherlands; second, the introduction of a new or reintroduction of the old currencies into the large debt countries with massive depreciation, so that they are and will be competitive again. - Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have one more point, namely: Double taxation agreements with Bulgaria. Here you know our line: Double taxation agreements, yes, we stand behind them, but no to the way they have come about, namely at the expense and at the expense of banking secrecy. We are consistent against this, and we therefore reject this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11808	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11829	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Members of the tennis club! . I am therefore saying it because Mr Grastaur is one of the few Members of the FPÖ are aware, at least in the Committee, of a certain amount of materiality, which is relatively easy in this group, but we do not want to agree on this. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And he has made a few points today that actually lead to a similar result in individual areas – but for quite different reasons, as far as Greece's aid and Ireland's aid are concerned. We now have a bit of a mixed agenda: on the one hand, this IMF story, the International Monetary Fund, and the related debate, and on the other hand, the limitation of the management bonuses, on the other hand, a good thing. I will proceed in this order. So once again to Greece and Ireland and even to monetary union: It was not for nothing, in the mid-1990s, when the Greens warned against the simultaneous introduction of the European single currency for all these countries, especially for the benefit of the countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal. But that's a different background. Only, the tricks of some economic questions are the following: It cannot be implemented in one direction a little more easily than, once it is together, it can be dissolved again. In other words: It's much easier to make a fish soup from an aquarium than from a fish soup a aquarium with fish in it; and that's a little the problem at this point. But the point is – here we meet – that it is simply not acceptable any longer – and for this reason we have already voted against the Greek aid with a large majority – that those who initially have a lot of money that they already have somewhere there – under quotation marks – so as not to say “speculate”, are increasingly paying high interest with the reference to market conditions, because there would be increased risks, and then, if the risks are falling, the first ones who are in the consequence to cut it down are holding hands with all European taxpayers. – That’s the mechanism, and we turn to it too! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's why it's very much about something like – now you can describe what you want – creditor participation or, if you want to, bankruptcy procedures for states. – Let us leave Carinthia in this context! That's something that really needs to happen. Of course, the fact that it cannot simply be announced in order not to be made then is the most all-embracing – however, that was reserved for Mrs. Federal Chancellor Merkel – because, of course, the markets are only raised up. We simply have to do this, or we have to implement it in European law, that there is this possibility, because then market participants will behave differently from the outset. – That would be the right answers here! Every time it is ready, it is now heard more and more often – also by the Austrian government: It can't go on like this! After all! But it is generally too little prepared in this direction at the Ecofin level or at the European level from my point of view. In the case of Ireland, history is such that not the basic economic data will be completely discarded, but the Irish banks still have enough “wrong papers” on their “active side” – under quotation marks. There it is certainly ambivalent in the result. But the policy becomes credible if it wants to secure itself here – not only in relation to the markets but also in relation to the population – only if something is done in this direction, otherwise the Sooner or later, in fact, a huge problem. Now, however, I would actually warn of hysteria, and I still consider that to be feasible. It's not like that. But what is missing is the participation of those who always deserve it. Earn a fee – Manager bonuses: Again, it is of great benefit that the European Union exists. Then: First of all, what the Minister of Finance announced weeks ago as a great Austrian litter is not that big, and secondly, what happens is good – that is why we also agree with this area – more or less re-octroyed by directives from the European Union. There are now reasonable restrictions on bonus payments to managers, especially where there are cooling phases and not everything is paid out. That's a very wise story. This may prevent the unwarranted enrichment of such bank managers, but above all they have an incentive system not only to speculate on the next year, but also to produce economic data for five to seven years. One final remark, however: the comparison with Germany. – They have, of course, also implemented this, but one thing has happened in Germany, namely, what we have requested from the beginning and to this day you – including you from the SPÖ – refuse: that we limit the bank manager salaries of those banks that take advantage of state aid – and that is now almost everyone in Austria. It is no longer about bonuses payments, but it is about restriction. Is it too much required that bank managers who hold their hands for public capital – and if it is only capital, it is still public money – be limited with the Federal Chancellor's salary? Is that too much? Are 300 000 € or 280 000 € too little for these gentlemen? – I mean: No, no, no, That is why it would be reasonable if you were finally to deal with these requests which we have tabled in this regard in the committee and then we could vote them, because it is not to be seen that the bank managers, with €6 billion in public money in their balance sheet, do not have to make a single cut in their own balance sheet.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11932	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11954	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's agenda provides for a mix of different points. Just briefly mentioned: Of course, the double taxation agreement with Bulgaria and all other renewed double taxation agreements are not a evasion of banking secrecy, but are concluded within the OECD framework, but above all have an economic background: that it is correct and important to provide for regulated measures in relation to taxation in trade relations – in this case between Austria and Bulgaria. This is an important condition also for reasonable business relations. Secondly, The Federal Law on the Increase of the New Credit Agreements with the International Monetary Fund is not to be seen in connection with Ireland, Greece or the like, but only in the wider context, not within the narrower framework of the debate here. It is, of course, so - and this must be said here - that the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which have rightly been under massive criticism for many years because of the programmes that have destroyed reasonable structures in poorer countries, have proved to be very helpful and good instruments, especially in the fight against the crisis and the impact of the economic crisis. It can also be said that Bretton Woods institutions were able to return to their original meaning. But a few words also about the so-called euro crisis, because I believe that much is mixed in public perception. There is no crisis of the euro in itself. The fundamental data, the real economic data within the eurozone and the eurozone countries, are very good at summa summa and can not only be compared with the data of the Asia zone, with the data of the USA and the like, but are also much better and more meaningful in many areas. What we have is budgetary difficulties of individual Member States. But that is not just the explanation for the Ireland question. Of course, Ireland has major deficits in its budget, and Ireland is in the middle of the gap between low-tax policy in the past to attract jobs and investment, and now the gap in the budget is going some way very difficult. But there is also a decoupling from real policy to a persecution by speculation and rating agencies, because there is actually not so much refinancing necessity for Ireland at this time. Nevertheless, this discussion has arisen. It is also necessary and right that the European Union should respond to all objections – if, for example, Member Kogler says that a haircut would, of course, be more correct, a private participation would be correct. Only: This is not an instrument that can be decided in this way in the euro area, and it is not an instrument that can be created through public discussion in political bodies, but the question is whether we can come here in the future, separated from the fast-needed decisions. However, let me focus on the implementation of the CAD III Directive. Since the beginning of the financial crisis, we have been talking a lot about the need to regulate – more transparency, more control and also about changing the wrong incentives in the pay system of those people who are responsible for investment and speculation decisions: the bank managers. What is present in the House today is a fundamental turning point in this orientation. The short-term decision of many bank managers, which was rightly criticised by the remuneration and incentive systems of the bonuses, is broken down by this Directive and by Austrian implementation. We are taking an important step towards a fairer bank manager remuneration and more sustainability. We will have a multi-annual basis. 40 percent of the bonuses are paid only after at least five years. Instead of short-term price gains, long-term successes will also result in the award of bonus payments. More transparency is provided for in this law. Closer control is provided, including monitoring through Austrian financial market supervision and penalties for financial market supervision. So: Overall, a fundamental change in course and the introduction into a fairer and more sustainable wage in this area. I am very glad that we are also implementing this directive, which the European Union has given us, in this way throughout the whole range, and with this also for those Institutions, which may take this into account in part or even in part now, make sure that everyone is legally obliged to do so in the future and that there is no longer a short-term schilling at the stock prices because of their own bonuses, but that sustainability is given by the five-year stretch and by the sustainable criteria. I believe that this is a very important step towards a sensible learning out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12029	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Molterer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12050	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a legitimate discussion to be held in the light of this critical development, what happens to the tax money. That's no question at all, we're all here. Only should we leave the church here in the village, Mr. Grastaur! On the issue of increasing the IMF lending framework, the following should be clarified: It is a possibility created by the legislator of the Austrian central bank. It's not a budget money that's being spent here. It can be – that is not a question – that this will reduce the profit distribution of the central bank a little; that can be. But you must already bear in mind that, especially in the 2008 crisis, the much criticised institutions such as the World Bank and the IMF were those institutions that acted immediately, and Austria also benefited from this. I remind you of the crisis that has been in Hungary – in no euro country! –: It was the IMF and the World Bank that immediately became daily and stabilised Hungary. It was Romania, it was Bulgaria – everything not euro countries! Especially for the Austrian economy, it has been essential that it was acted immediately at that time. The current increase is also in our interest. For example, the IMF's participation in the rescue of Greece is €22 billion, in Ireland €10 billion, and of course this is also in our interest! The criticism of the policy of the IMF and the World Bank in the past is quite legitimate, but these institutions have learned. Such a thing as in Argentina, for example, would not happen to both organizations. What is particularly striking to me, and that has not been said so far in the discussion: This increase also shows – that is what we Europeans, including Austrians, have to see – that weights in the world are changing. The increase in the credit framework is mainly financed by China, India, Russia and Brazil. This must also raise our Europeans' awareness, so to speak, because it becomes clear where political weights will eventually shift in the world economy. Now also a sentence on the euro: What irritates me again and again in the media coverage is that the question of the crisis in Europe is determined by what the price of the euro to the dollar is like. In my opinion, this is economic nonsense – quite frankly said – because now Germany and Austria, for example, show that the question of a euro-dollar course may now be much more similar to reality than it was two years ago. But what is quite to be criticised is the following: When the euro was introduced – read this! – this was a political concept, in which it was said that the economic conditions must follow. But that's not the way it is. Seems like it should have been. Therefore, in my opinion, the rescue shield is now a necessity, but no replacement for what has to be done in addition. For example, private participation in debt costs is a necessity. I expect that, as announced, Rompuy will present by the end of the year an amendment to the Treaty Light, which we will then discuss here, too, that we have a contractual opportunity to do so in the euro area. We need to change the growth and stability pact – and add additional criteria in my opinion. I also believe that the necessary structural reforms, as they have now been launched under compulsion in Ireland and Greece, should have actually been voluntary. This is how the circle closes. When Austria says in budget policy: We want to make sure that we are going economically in the right direction!, this proves that Novotny, with whom I have not always been of an opinion, is absolutely right in one point, namely: Debts are free, for if you are indebted, you have to do what the creditor buys! – We don’t want it to come that far in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12117	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12138	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the Banking Act takes place in the implementation of European directives, with a major focus on supervisory supervision of credit institutions' remuneration policies. The introduction of excessive risks in the financial services sector and inappropriate remuneration practices have led to significant losses in banks and credit institutions. Many common remuneration practices are incompatible with efficient and sound risk management. The prospect of higher profits and the achievement of short-term profits were in many cases the benchmark of activity, and these practices must no doubt be discontinued. The requirements of the Basel II Directive have been supplemented and credit institutions have been explicitly obliged to define a remuneration policy compatible with effective risk management for all categories of employees whose professional activity has a significant impact on the risk profile of credit institutions. The new remuneration rules aim to strengthen the sustainability and long-term management of credit institutions' employees and prevent false incentives in the remuneration structure, such as inappropriate short-term success orientation or too high risk-takingness. A further proposal, the new E-Money Act 2010, regulates cross-border payment transactions with electronic money, the supervision of e-money institutions by the FMA and the protection of customers. So far, in addition to the issue of e-money, e-money institutions have not been allowed to provide payment services or other services which do not constitute financial services. This restricted field of activity is now being expanded. EU-wide activity will be possible, and in addition to the issue of e-money and the implementation of related payment services, the provision of other non-financial payment services will also be possible. The expansion of the field of activity for e-money institutions, while recasting supervisory requirements in a risk-oriented manner, promotes the creation of new jobs, contributes to financial stability and consumer protection and therefore also finds our support. A final remark on the credit agreement with the IMF: The financial crisis has also affected the International Monetary Fund. Numerous stabilisation support has increased the IMF's liquidity needs, and the framework for new credit agreements should be increased today. Austria will participate with about €4 billion. In the worst case, for Austria this means that the National Bank's commitment to the Republic may result in a maximum profit loss of €25 million. Overall, these are templates that bring more seriousness and security to the banking and financial sector, and which mean more stability for euro countries. That is why we will also agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12180	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12202	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Let us remember once again the objective of this EU directive, which we are implementing today. It is addressed to those investment banks, listed, internationally active banks, which give their employees indecently high bonuses, which also produce a wrong steering effect: to maximize the Bank's results in the short term instead of optimizing them in the longer term. Therefore, the intention of the Directive, as far as it is directed towards this target group of banks, is to support with a clear yes. And, of course, their implementation into Austrian law is also necessary. But if we, as national legislators, implement such a directive, it is our responsibility to implement it in a form that takes account of the structures of our credit economy, so to speak, to implement them properly. Otherwise, we would only have to write down directives and give any responsibility to Brussels. But what we are doing today only partly meets this responsibility. We only take very conditional account of business models and structures of our credit economy! No one will claim that there has been Boni-Excesse in Austrian banks. No one will even claim that there has been a Boni-Excesse in the Sparkasse in Poysdorf, the Raiffeisenkasse Bad Ischl or the Volksbank in Rattenberg. That is why it is our job to ensure that we do not now, especially those many small banks which have ensured in the crisis that businesses and the real economy have continued to be sufficiently financed, by means of a superfluous scheme which is based on a completely different objective with other recipients. We have hoped that it will succeed to relieve banks up to a total balance sheet of € 1 billion of the obligation to provide provision, as it will only cause administrative expenses, only additional costs, without serving the objective! I deeply regret that in the end it was not possible to reach such a meaningful solution with our coalition partner. Therefore, the coalition partner will have to assume responsibility for the fact that, with the implementation of the directive, which is largely correct and good, we are also meeting a group that has nothing at all to do with its regulatory objectives and which we are now massively burdening, which is in no way justified. However, I assume that we have not yet completed the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12244	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speaker is speaking. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12265	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The e-money law, if one can call it that way, or the government template for it – that has already been said several times today, it is also very, very important – supports a uniform legal framework for the issue of e-money. The e-money institution is a financial institution based on the design of payment institutions. In other words, the provision of payment services is subject to the provisions of the Payment Service Act. Credit and deposit operations are regulated in such a way that they are reserved to credit institutions. Essential and new to the e-money law is that the issue of e-money – regardless of whom it is made, whether it is subject to mandatory provisions or conditions by the e-money institution or by a bank. The mandatory conditions and provisions refer to transparency in the context of information, with issue, with exchange of back and with the corresponding charges that have already been discussed. This leads to more transparency and comparability for e-money issuers and for customers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Harmonization of payment services will in principle boost competition. It is positive, but it also requires – and this is particularly important – appropriate vigilance of competition policy, because it is essential, in addition to the Directive-compliant implementation of these government templates, also the vigilance of the stability of the financial system and of consumer protection. Mr Ikrath has just spoken about the bonuses payments that have been made and which no longer understands, but which have led the world financial economy to waver. This e-money law should also slow down this inadequacy – if one wants to call it impoverishable – because consumer confidence, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most important prerequisites for the functioning of the financial institutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12303	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12324	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A sentence to Mr Mag. Ikrath – but in general –: Sometimes it is good if lobbyists do not prevail; so it is in this case. [[Abg. May. Ikrath:... has no idea of the Austrian credit economy!]] Ladies and gentlemen, to the core Europe with two speeds or separation in a hard and a soft euro: I consider this separation – and with me many experts – to be an economic spirit drive. Moreover, if the euro is not as strong, there are also advantages: The German export industry has noted this benevolently. We have also discussed this on the occasion of the Greek aid: If, for example, Greece is out of the euro zone, Mr Grastaur, what would be the result? – Greece is reintroducing the drachma, debt is getting more because they have the debt in euro. What would be the result? – The shares are falling down, the investors are subtracting, and we are restarting the crisis. If that's the goal, then we should do that. But I don't think that can be our goal, because once again, we cannot afford to run through the crisis. However, the crisis of state finances has, not least in Ireland, brought to light the weaknesses of the euro area. It is not only about the different economies, as Mr Kogler mentioned, that are in terms of efficiency, but also about tax competition among the euro area countries. Within the European Union, the basis of assessment is not the same in each country, but it is not the case that twelve countries within the Union have significantly lower corporate tax rates than Austria and most of these countries are so-called net recipients. If we want to keep a common currency permanently, if we do not work, we need more and no less Europe. I also believe that we need a coordinated policy on tax and economic matters. Another thing is clear from the example of Ireland: Foreign banks deduct their money, thus intensifying the crisis of Irish banks. Therefore, it will be necessary in the future – and Mr Molterer has also mentioned this – to involve private creditors more and to take on the duty, but also to think more about an international financial transaction tax. I think the integration of the private is quite, very important, because they now only benefit from higher risk increases without really having to expect payment failures. There are already such discussions at European level, and that is a good thing. Finally: We need more and no less Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12363	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Banking Act, including the title and receipt in 1001 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law adopting an e-money law in 2010 and amending the Banking Act, the Payment Services Act, the Insurance Supervision Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 982 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft federal law on the increase of the new credit agreements with the International Monetary Fund, together with the title and receipt in 983 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a core Europe in the context of the ongoing financial disaster in euro Member States and the resulting danger to the euro. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Bulgaria on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and of assets and of the Protocol, in 943 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(l). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:01:27]] 7. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 1321/A by Mr Anton Heinzl, Dr Ferdinand Maier, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the regulations on road transport 1960 (StVO 1960), the driving licence law and the motor vehicle law 1967 (1020 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (900 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Law amending the driving licence law (13. In this context, the Commission considers that there is a need to improve the quality of the information provided by the Member States in the light of the information provided by the Commission. Proposal 801/A(E) by Mr Walter Rosenkranz, Members of Parliament, on the establishment of a driver's licence exemption scheme for fire brigade vehicles up to 5.5 tonnes, on the Amendment 1282/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Members of Parliament, on cross-border prosecution of foreign transport offenders in accordance with the principle of reciprocity (1021 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 1324/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues on speed flexibility on motorways (1022b) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 1327/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Members and colleagues, on the general ban on heavy-duty vehicles on two-way motorways (1023d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12546	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12573	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have some templates that are very welcome and important to relax the traffic situation on the Austrian roads. The first concerns road traffic regulations. There are now some reliefs and simplifications that make the work of those who work on the road or in motor vehicles more common and easier. For example, in connection with taxis, there is the agreement that in the area of the five meters in the crossing area, passengers can get in and out, that you can use not only the bus tracks, but also the light signals of the bus lights, and so on. That's something we're going with and saying, it's a relief. Wherever we go and vote, but want to note some critical thoughts, is the driving licence law – where it is intended to prevent and punish shaving. That's how we extend the lead time now when a second offence occurs. Experts – with this I really mean traffic experts, not those who read from the past economic crisis a reduction in traffic volumes, but those who really deal seriously with matter – say that usually there is not a preeminent crime alone; when someone comes to this area, there are usually two. If you are now extending the lead time there, you can see it critically. However, what we consider very critical is the increase of more than 90 km/h in the area or more than 100 km/h outside the area. 50 km/h in the area plus 90 km/h, which is 140 km/h – 140 km/h in the area I find very fast with all love, although I am quite on the side of the drivers. It could be considered whether an old scheme, which has limited the whole by 180 km/h, would be maintained by the side; for 100 km/h more would mean 200 km/h on the free land road, or even more on motorways. I don't think this will significantly limit shaving. Let us come to the last point, namely the KFG with the automated data query or better the basic creation for this: Here we are again the pattern boy. We are the ones who are the first to provide the data to others in Europe. Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you to see that we can not only produce our data and then react with a corresponding punishment, but also that the others are so far. I would ask you to be very committed to this in the EU. But if I am already registered as a counter speaker, let us come to a point that we see very critically, where it is easy to say from the government parties, no, we reject it. But I believe that the applicant is Hagen – We have already dealt with a similar request in plenary – something has been thought about. I speak of the ban on trucks over 7.5 tons on roads, highways and highways, with two lanes. Each of us knows that. It starts with an extremely critical situation when the rear truck begins to overtake. Normally, drive by on the left side of the car. The truck usually has to get into this series of cars: the first insidiously critical situation, a lot of traffic accidents. The overtaking process itself does not take time in this case as with a car with 20 km/h difference relatively short, but takes several kilometers with the usual speed difference from 1 to 2 km/h. The mayor also knows for sure that this is not easy. This prohibition should therefore be imposed. Of course, I know it's easy to say from the government parties that we're not doing anything, that's what we're looking at. The federal states have already given opinions on this, and Lower Austria – Mr Mayor, not to read, but to listen! – has said that this ban would be recommended. The only ones who don't want it are the Tyroleans. I don't know if they're a little more accident-seeking or whatever. We would definitely welcome it if it were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12635	Mr Heinzl came to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12656	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear representatives of the Austrian Blue Light Organisations! Every day at least one person dies on Austrian roads, every third fatal accident is due to excessive speed – these are the dry statements of statistics. However, behind each individual case of statistics is the suffering of the family. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it must be fundamental consensus for all of us here in the House with regard to the current transport policy: Safety is progressing, lawning and the risk of human life are not a cavalier offence. Lawn's not a cavalier's crime, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! – Dear Dr. Moser, I think we are in agreement: [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's why you should also...! Do more!]] Grass kills not only the lawns, but also many who are unfortunately in the wrong place at the wrong time. That is why I firmly believe that increasing the penalties for the lawns is a good and absolutely necessary step towards greater road safety. To want to protect Raster and to take the discussion in the direction – here and there – to increase or even release the maximum speed permitted, is in stark contradiction to a safety-oriented serious transport policy. For, ladies and gentlemen, those who are more on the road with 90 kilometres more in the area, i.e. in front of schools, kindergartens and other protected zones, or who hunt 150 kilometres over free land roads, are not only at risk of themselves, but – and that is particularly bad – others too. A step-up withdrawal of the driver's license – the faster, the longer the withdrawal – from my point of view is a meaningful and important measure against reckless shaver. In this context, it is also welcome that in the case of traffic penalties, the vehicles of foreign drivers may be seized until they have paid the penalty. This will ensure that they will not get away with it and that the righteous penalties can be more easily imposed. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the penalties is only part of the fight for greater road safety, control and presence of the executive is equally essential for increased road safety. High house! The 2009 transport package initiated by our transport minister Doris Bures has proved to be very effective. For example, the ORF Vienna reported only in the last few days that despite increased alcohol controls carried out in Vienna, much less alcoholized handlebars had to be punished. [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... logical!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called blue light driver's licence is also an essential contribution to greater safety. This will greatly facilitate the daily work of fire brigades and rescues. As we know, the vehicles used by the voluntary firearms, but also by the rescue organizations, especially the emergency vehicles, have become more and more difficult due to better technical equipment. [[Congratulations with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] Many of the deployment vehicles of the voluntary organisations have already exceeded the total weight of 3.5 tonnes. Volunteers with B-Führerschein – and thus also their local organisations – were significantly restricted by this restriction in their willingness to use. The fact that the volunteers will be allowed to drive operating vehicles of up to 5.5 tonnes after an internal and – I am convinced – best training with the B license is an important step to ensure the overall supply and security of the population. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know – and that was said in committee – that: Over two decades, this so-called fire brigade licence was repeatedly demanded by the Blue Light organizations, fire brigades and rescue organizations. Thank you very much to our Federal Minister Doris Bures, she has now implemented it, and I am pleased that we can decide today in this House. Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary: With the increase in the penalties for extreme shaver and the introduction of the blue light driver's license, an important step has been taken to increase road safety and to provide the population across the globe. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12724	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12745	Ladies and gentlemen, especially at the gallery! Mrs. Minister! Some things are quite positive. First: Yeah, I'm because we have the so-called fire brigade license. Secondly, I am in favour of the taxis now being allowed to stay in or in front of the crossing area. Our approval is also given in the case of trace signaling. Even if it is a matter of facilitating the control of trucks transporting food. Yeah, we're for it. In the same way in the case of confiscation, and also in the few improvements in the system of preferences, we will carry your draft, Mrs Minister. But you, ladies and gentlemen, one of the rescue organizations knows exactly – you too, Mrs Minister, know that very well; I will show you once again, your foreword to the Austrian Transport Safety Programme, where there is also the following: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] “Every single person killed or seriously injured in traffic is too much!” – Yes, colleague Heinzl, that’s true too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Page 15, Mrs. Minister, says it at the speed: “Statistics show that unadapted speed is the distance” – it says: by a distance! – “most common cause of accident. Internationally, it is assumed that a reduction in average speed by 1 km/h will result in an average accident reduction of 3 %.” And what are you doing? – You leave – Mr Deimek has already mentioned it – everything in the old world, except in the extremes. What exactly does that look like? – Only those operating in the area 110 km/h are expected to have additional consequences. There's no withdrawal, there's everything left with the old. Only those who travel more than 170 km/h on national, federal or municipal roads have more consequences. There's only an intensification of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, only the Extremes at 200 km/h and more on the motorway are affected by this legislation. All the other lawns are punished as before. Your traffic safety programme – and not just this – says, Mrs. Minister, that every km/h less means a 3 percent reduction in traffic accidents, is a minus of fatal accidents, is a minus of suffering, distress, I don't want to list it all. But you don't attack all of this. It is sacrosanct, which runs in the village up to 110 km/h, flashes and kills, and it is sacrosanct, which runs through the area on the country road, on the federal road up to 170 km/h. It is equally vital for you that someone driving up to 200 km/h on the motorway does not have to expect additional measures. You have written that down – no change. Let's take a look at this: The main cause of fatal accidents is the excessive speed, that's what says here. What else do we have? It says that in international comparison Austria is a tracer of road safety. Austria is almost final in the EU as far as accidents with injured persons are concerned. [[Abg. New builder: Where's that, Mrs. Colleague?]] – All of this is contained in the documentation of the Board of Directors for Transport Safety. It also says: Second, the reaction path plus the brake path is equal. A car driving at 50 km/h has at least twice as long a distance as one driving 30 km/h. What do you think it looks like at 110 km/h?- Oh, my God! And only in the area! And all those who race between 50 km/h and 110 km/h in the area, after you change these billings, go home virtually with the same penalty as if you had not made any change. Mrs. Minister, I may take it from you – perhaps you also say something about it – that you wanted, but could not do it; perhaps it is not you personally, but the coalition partner, but please clarify it to us, because in the end, as a minister, you are fully responsible for the blood customs on the street, which will not be reduced if we do not also intervene in the area I have now outlined: at the normal, daily speed crossings, which always fill the local pages of the newspapers with terrible pictures. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No! I made a phone call with a cop this morning. He told me that he was with blue light yesterday – you have to imagine that! – was on the highway, with 140 km/h according to Tacho, 131 km/h to GPS, i.e. correct with a maximum of 131 km/h. The police with blue light have been overtaken by dozens of road users. They didn't do anything, for them it wasn't even a cavalier's crime, they ignored it. They don't fear punishment at all. They do not even think that they could be punished because they are often not punished either. This brings me to the root of the problem: If you are in the ministry, if we here in Parliament do not, at last, massively sanction compliance with speed limits – especially with measures in the pre-mark system, because excessive speed is still not a problem in the pre-mark system; You have to imagine that madness and error! – if we do not impose more stringent sanctions, then the executive, the police are abandoned. Then: It is not appreciated when it is controlled. It is not, as it were, positively assessed by the supreme instance, it is not supported at all, there are no additional possibilities for action. I say it from experience: The morale of the executive with regard to control on the ground is falling – unfortunately! Those who bathe this out are not only those concerned, not only their families, they are also the men who often risk their lives when they use them, the blue light organizations. They know exactly why it is so often powerful. It's not allowed to crack so often. And that is why, Mrs Minister, we are also in favour of staying on the motorway at pace 130 km/h and that the trucks on the motorway, if they are only two-track, should not be overtaken. We are very much in favour of this proposal by the FPÖ. We expect from your side that you will finally do something against the day-to-day lawns. It must not become everyday that a person dies on the street every day.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12846	The next speaker was Mr Dr Maier. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12868	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Lords of fire brigades from Lower Austria and Vienna! At the head of the President of the Austrian Bundeswehrverband Josef Buchta! Welcome! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm glad you came! Today we decide on the driver's license for Blue Light Organisations, a call for your organisation and, of course, the Red Cross organizations. We have gladly included this in the negotiations, and I am also pleased that we can decide today. In the context of this discussion, however, we have also made it clear to the Austrian People's Party that we do not wish to link the offences provided for in the premise system and the offences committed with withdrawal sentences. Finally, the discussion has led us to decide on this package today. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Because it's so bad! It's probably so bad about you! That's why it's such a scum!]] - I'll speak to you in a moment, Mrs. Moser. Easy, easy! We will, of course, decide today. The Members of my group will certainly say something about this, because, thanks to the initiative of the Austrian People's Party and its advice and support, this law came first. So I would rather have the proposal to look a little bit into the future. The colleagues of the Blue Light Organisations will also be interested in the fact that we have brought the escape alley to the political debate. There is also a corresponding report from your home, Mrs. Federal Minister. In view of this report, it is probably only a matter of hours before we can also dress it in law and put it into practice. I am already waiting and looking forward to the decision-making process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A project that we could also speed up is the video surveillance of protection routes. All of us can still face the sad and dramatic case of the 7-year-old boy in the 19th century. District, Döblinger Main Street Ecke Pyrkergasse, remember. There is now a model experiment with video surveillance. I believe that we should now, apart from the final outcome of this investigation, create the legal basis for the video surveillance of protection routes. I don't think we should wait. What's going to come out? – It will come out that it makes sense. If it doesn't make sense, you have to re-read the attempt, but that doesn't mean that we don't need a legal basis for it. I expect to see a template soon, which we can do in terms of safety for cyclists. The committee in question has been meeting for a relatively long time, as results can soon be expected. Let me say something about the priority system. The problem with the pre-eminence system is that no one really knows what is actually taken into account in the pre-eminence system. Mrs. Dr. Moser! That's not quite transparent. Mrs. Federal Minister! They currently advertise passport photos across the board. The space that is wasted there could actually be useful to inform the road users of what is recorded in the pre-mark system in order to know what punishments you have to expect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The taxpayer's money – Mr Heinzl gives me the right; I thank you for the offer – could therefore be used to make the pre-eminence system public instead of making any folder, dear Mr Heinzl, who is smearing somewhere in any office. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So I think we should make the system more transparent and well-known. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: It's not just about the premise system! We need the point driver's license!]] Mrs. Dr. Moser always speaks of the speed drivers. I would ask you to look at the density of the check as far as speeding is concerned. It has risen dramatically from 2005 to 2005. Thank God! This has also led to an increase in the number of offences and a reduction in the number of victims of the accident. That's the reason! I'm for stronger control. I would like to thank Mrs Fekter, the Federal Minister, who has taken it to the point of finally being controlled here. This is for me the more sensible way, by the way, also in connection with the Advent markets or similar events. That has already been mentioned today. Alcohol control has led to a reduction in the penalties because it is a deterrent. That is why I am in favour of greater control. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, right! But the sanctions must also be tightened!]] As far as the ban is concerned – Mr Deimek has put it into discussion – I would think that in future – and perhaps, Mrs Bundesminister, we should also discuss this – we should talk about a sectoral ban on trucks over 7.5 tonnes, but not as general as it is obviously meant at the moment. A sectoral definition of bans would be discussive. One last thing: The meeting zones, shared spaces, were in a request from the Austrian People's Party, which you did not answer very well, Mrs. Federal Minister, but rather superficially. That is why we have made a second request. Not to be answered for a long time, but to try to put that into law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12960	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12981	Mr President. Minister! High house! Before I go into three points which we are only negotiating here with regard to the three requests made by the BZÖ – the other points will then be addressed by my colleagues who speak in my opinion – I would like to remind you that the agenda of the Committee on Transport has had 20 agenda items. [[Abg. Heinzl: 24!]] - 24, sorry. Three points we are dealing with here; most have been postponed. I would also like to say that nine of these 24 applications have come from the BZÖ. This shows how efficiently the government works, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let me now turn to the points announced: One of the BZÖ's requests concerns the cross-border prosecution of foreign transport offenders according to the principle of reciprocity. Let's get a little closer to the problem: The Styria issue of 10,000 annual penalties concerning foreigners who commit traffic violations in the Styria region. Most of it concerns Italians. Of these 10,000 foreigners, nothing comes at all. That's terrifying. In Hungary, Austrian criminal acts are not even accepted. I think there is an urgent need for action here in the sense of the equal treatment of Austrian car drivers, ladies and gentlemen. The Salzburger Landeskonduitshof sees an uneven treatment of Austrian road users vis-à-vis foreign car drivers in this area. The alarm bells have to ring out loud, and there is an urgent need for action, Mrs Minister. Our request is based on the fact that, at European level, you are taking appropriate action and that, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, there is only more to be done for those states which, for us too, are lifting the penalty for Austria. This would be a fair deal with this matter, and there would not be a disadvantage for Austrian drivers. At present, the Austrian drivers are clearly disadvantaged. I remember July last year. Mrs. Minister, you have proposed that, in the case of speed crossings from 30 km/h, the penalty is set at €70 in order to be able to prosecute foreign road users or to have an amount that will also be cancelled at EU level. There is an agreement, there is a directive that makes it possible. In principle, we now see that It was not effective in this respect. I warned you at the time that only the Austrian car drivers will come to the handcushion, and that unfortunately happened. Another point is the demand for 160 km/h on three-track motorways. My request is aimed at the fact that we already have three-trackly-developed motorways in many areas, which are allowed after the design speed for about 180 km/h. So you could drive 180 km/h without any danger. I mean, that's to be explained, too. Today it is 40 years since the maximum speed of 130 km/h has been introduced on motorways. We must also remember that this was in the middle of the energy crisis at that time. 40 years later, the cars are technically well equipped and the consumption is reduced, so easy to drive 160 km/h on the motorways. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] That would be in the sense of traffic flow, in the sense that we are coming from A to B faster. The “air hundred”, often ordered by national governments in the three-track area, is a pure fry and a waste disposal shop with the drivers. [[New condolences with the BZÖ and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In order to see, ladies and gentlemen, that other parties are also concerned and have come up with very similar proposals: I have a statement by the SPÖ's then spokesperson in 2003, Eder, who demanded 150 km/h on three-track motorways in optimal transport conditions. So you don't usually have a problem. Today we're a little further with the technique. It's been almost ten years. There you can get 10 km/h more. Please vote! Give yourself a shot, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You see, their own people have already demanded it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You probably don't care about the traffic victims!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Let me conclude by referring to the initiative for a general ban on heavy goods vehicles on two-track motorways! Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who travels by car and has to travel long distances as I have to – from Vorarlberg I have a relatively wide path to Vienna – has plenty of time to experience these Brummi races. There are always extremely dangerous situations. A lot of accidents, a lot of injuries, a lot of suffering that could be prevented would be a barge here. I'm telling you this, too, as a police officer, who's watching it accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier mentioned that this ban could perhaps be imposed in some areas. It certainly doesn't matter if this is in Vorarlberg or elsewhere. It doesn't matter where you drive, you can always find the same situations: One truck with only about 1 km/h speed difference passes through the other, which means that the overtaking extends over 10 km or even further. Other aspects have already been explained by Mr Deimek, how dangerous this situation is with the exit. We need to act here. In the interests of security, action must be taken urgently. The Minister has already indicated this, and I can quote it here. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did this on 23 March. March 2009 in the ORF also explains: More truck bans on motorways. Overcrowding bans on trucks on motorways and highways are to be extended according to the will of the Minister of Transport Doris Bures, SPÖ. This is due to the disproportionately high number of accident participations and serious accident consequences. - Quote. So you've already realized that at the time. Then give yourself a bump or a back! Come on! Among other things, this also called for your party colleague Niessl in Burgenland. The party colleague and uncle of the Minister of Finance, Minister of State Pröll, has demanded a general ban on the A4 in Lower Austria and has made several corresponding advances. That was in 2009. So you see, we're right here. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, give yourself a boost! Here you can point out, here you can do something reasonable in the sense of road safety and in the sense of the drivers who are otherwise taken by the Minister of Finance, as we have already heard today, always.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13060	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13081	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear representatives of the Blue Light organizations! More than a year ago, I was standing here, very happy, and I also thanked the House for putting together a large package of transport safety. I have done so, too, because there is always a real consensus on issues of road safety in the House and because there is a awareness that this concerns us all. We have not had this impression in the course of this debate, but I really did get the impression in the road safety package last year, but also in the discussions we have held in the committee this time, that it is a real concern for every individual of you to ensure that there is less human suffering on Austria's roads. That is why I would like to take a short look at the opportunity and report what happened this year. What were the effects of the joint transport safety package? - The balance sheet is quite clear. The measures we have decided to take. We have achieved real success, as the accident statistics and figures show. It was a combination of good laws and good control of compliance with these laws. Both are necessary for us to be successful. In figures, this means that in the first half of 2010, the number of people killed by Alkolenker on Austria's roads fell by 44 percent. This is a decline we have never had before, and this has to do with the fact that we have clearly said that alcohol at the tax is not a cavalier offence. The result is higher penalties, and the result is that there is a withdrawal of a driver's licence for a longer period of time. We have jointly decided to use transport safety especially in the youth sector. We have added new fields of training to the Mopedführerschein-Training, including more driving practice. It has also been shown that we have achieved a drop of more than 40 percent for the fatally unhappy moped drivers by the end of October, which is the current figures. This shows that the measures have actually taken place. Only yesterday did Statistics Austria announce the total number of road fatalities. Every single person is still one too much, that is beyond doubt, but in the last 11 months we have had a 14 percent reduction. This is a positive trend! In this sense, I am also pleased that we continue to do so. At Topic Transport safety must never stop and rest on positive trends. With great commitment, we continue to work on taking additional steps to improve road safety. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Where are they?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have clearly defined what the risk groups are, and lawn is the most common cause of accident. The regulations that we have and for which we also need a high acceptance among the drivers – that is also important to me – are good regulations. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You can't drive on motorways at 200 km/h in Austria and nothing happens. From 180 km/h the driver's license is gone. That is now a valid regulation, and that is also good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But nothing else happens! There are no more sanctions!]] What we decide together today really concerns extreme raser. It's not that you forgot to look at the tacho. It is a question of putting in place additional measures, even though fortunately only a few of those who are so responsible for moving on Austria's roads. We say clearly: The higher the speed crossing, the longer you have to expect that the driving licence is gone. I am very glad, as I have said, that we are taking these measures. A second measure, which is particularly important to me, because it also has something to do with the sense of justice of the people, has been addressed, Mr Hagen, by you. There must not be two groups of road users, namely the nationals who are held responsible and possibly foreign lawnrs who do not have to bear the consequences of their irrantious behaviour. Of course they also have to bear the consequences, and foreign transport offenders must not escape punishment. I am therefore very glad that we also discussed this in the Committee so that we will take action in the future until some sort of confiscation of the vehicle until the penalty is paid so that they too are held responsible. This has something to do with justice, because we don't make a difference. Those who move responsibly on Austria's streets, those who threaten themselves and other people, are responsible. That is why we are going to take this measure, namely: The vehicle is stopped until the penalty is paid for Heller and Pfennig – also by foreign drivers. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We have already put in place a number of measures, for example on the question of front photography, so that foreign shavers cannot escape responsibility. In the meantime, 90 radar devices with front photography are installed on Austria's streets. We raised the bagatell limit to €70 so that we can also conduct the persecution abroad, so to speak. I will be at the Council of Transport Ministers in Brussels this morning, and I have been negotiating intensively over the last few months, and we will be able to sign an agreement so that we can carry out this keeper and vehicle data exchange with the other Member States. It will be an agreement on EUCARIS. This will allow for the automatic exchange of data, without individual contracts, bilateral agreements, without what you say happens, that while one State will disclose the data to the other, the other countries will remain guilty of this data. I hope that we will decide on Thursday at the Council of Transport Ministers at the level of the European Union. I have been very committed to this international European exchange of data on transport sinners. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, on the transport safety package, on the really good foundations we have laid. Maybe it shows the discussion a little bit: Mrs Moser is on motorways for speed 100, Mr Hagen is on motorways for speed 160. I think we've been driving well at Tempo 130, and with the packages we've decided together, we're very good. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: They're all driving faster! They're all driving faster!]] Finally, because that is still important to me, to the blue light organizations. I am pleased that we can now conclude a novel of the driving licence law in the House. I am also pleased because many Members of all the political parties have told me what problems have often arisen for the aid organizations that the equipment is fortunately getting better and better – in the fire brigade, in the rescue, in the Cobra, in these areas we will do so. The equipment gets better, people can be helped faster, but at the same time it gets harder and harder to find handlebars for these vehicles when they have over 3.5 tons. Today, we will solve this problem and jointly decide that vehicles up to 5.5 tons – of course with certain training criteria – may be guided by members of Blue Light organisations – whether they are the voluntary fire brigade, the Red Cross, or the workers’-Samariter-Bund – which will ensure that people who need help get this help even faster. As I said, I would like to thank all those who have committed themselves to the fact that we can decide today. I think the best thing about it is that we can also provide assistance to those organisations in which many people can provide their help every day with this law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13186	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13207	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Estimated listeners, especially of the Blue Light organizations! I would like to refer once again to some of the points of this federal law that we are going to amend today's road traffic regulations, the driving licence law and the motor vehicle law – important changes, such as those that will serve road safety and more control and, hopefully, the positive balance already addressed by the Minister. The amendment to the driving licence law concerning the measures against high-speed drivers in the form of a driver's licence withdrawal – which has been set aside for up to six months – has already been explained in detail. Too many people crash in the event of accidents for which grass is the cause. This concerns a total of almost one third of all road deaths per year, unfortunately to a large extent also young people, especially in the rural region. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's why we need to do more!]] The consequences are to be welcomed and enshrined in this novel. There is also a motion for a resolution calling on the Ministry to consider whether voluntary social services should reduce the duration of the withdrawal from driving licences. Also very quickly, but in the sense of the fastest possible help, the change already mentioned in the driving licence law, which concerns the so-called blue light driver's licence, has an effect. This allows the steering of vehicles of the operational forces up to a total weight of 5.5 tonnes with driving licence B for additional theoretical and practical training. This will prevent bottlenecks in operational journeys, especially in rural areas. It has already been mentioned that the demand of firearms is thus met, above all, in many rural communities, in which many members have the driving licence B, but no C-regulatory licence. It will also make it possible for operational organizations to train candidates on public transport roads with licence B and to carry out these practical school trips themselves under statutory regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, now on the amendments to the road transport regulations: There will be a concreteization of the weekend driving ban. A list created in accordance with the German model will bring more legal certainty, which foods may be transported on weekends and which will not. Derogations are made. This is to be supported because it prevents inaccurate labels from carrying out more trucks than would be necessary. The wide-ranging concept of “lightly perishable food” is now specifically enshrined in the law that weekend trips serve only for the transport of, for example, fresh fruits and vegetables, fresh milk, meat and fish. Feeder rides and empty spaces shall be documented exactly as well. In addition, it is re-regulated that taxis will be allowed to stop briefly in the 5-metre crossing area in the future, provided that the safety of all road users is maintained. In particular, in agglomerations with few storage spaces for people with handicaps or for sick and old people, it can be a relief if the taxi is not allowed to stay 100 meters away, or does not have to keep track of the second track, because there are no stops. This is also a relief for people with heavy luggage. This has always been practiced by taxi drivers, without that being correct by law. Another welcome change in the law concerns the use of the light signals from taxis on bus tracks. The Minister has also mentioned the revision of the motor vehicle law in 1967, which can bring a solution to the problem of foreign transport offenders and their prosecution. Accession to the European vehicle and holder database EUCARIS, which the Ministry of Transport is seeking, is intended to allow for a direct mutual exchange of data between the central vehicle and driving licence registers of the States concerned. The Ministry of the Interior will create the technical conditions for this, and the BMVIT will conclude corresponding contracts with EUCARIS Member States. Only countries that also allow such surveys and access by Austrian authorities should then be informed accordingly. These are, as I believe, important changes to greater road safety and more control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13244	The next speaker was Mr Rosenkranz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13265	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Tag Fire Engine Licence, Blue Light Organisations: I can still exercise my free mandate here – although my chief commander from Lower Austria is here. Despite long-standing demands, press releases or the like, a catalyst is obviously needed, as is the issue of the fire brigade licence. The APA or other daily newspapers are not the right instrument to make a law. A law is made here in Parliament, and therefore, since I did not find such a thing, the Group of the Party of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats The Commission's proposal for a law on the application of a resolution on fire brigade licence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just before the Committee meeting on 1 January. Thankfully, the Federal Minister gave the green light on June, that such an agreement should actually be reached. Now, on 30. November 2010, it is so far in the decision-making process. It is not only about the question of better equipment, but also about legal certainty. What would happen if, in fact, a fire brigade that might have been overloaded due to the persons or equipment, and in the context of an opinion in the reconstruction of the accident, it was found that this vehicle was too heavy and the handlebar did not have the right to do so. In this grey zone you have often moved, and thank God nothing has happened. But what would happen if, on the basis of such a circumstance, a liability insurance would leave? We don't want to paint that. Therefore: Thank you for this arrangement, which is borne by all parties. I would like to add here again: Legal certainty with regard to fire surgeons has still not been clarified.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13319	The next speaker was Mr Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13341	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We have already heard that today we will decide on the Fireman's license and, of course, the Raser package with regard to the Raser problem. It is of course also true that this package provides relief for the economy. This is a very important point for us, because the transport industry is an extremely important economic factor. Considering that there are about 18 000 entrepreneurs in Austria who are active in the transport industry and employ more than 200 000 people, it is important that we give them on the one hand the opportunity to bring what we need on a daily basis, and that we also give them the legal certainty that they can transport the goods. It's remarkable. If about 370 000 tonnes are transported annually on Austrian roads, it is only right and good that we also improve the framework conditions accordingly. So far, it has been the case that one has been pulled out of traffic if one had three Büschel basil in the trailer. That is why this list, which we now use in accordance with the German model – as already mentioned – provides legal certainty – for the transport industry on the one hand, and on the other, for the controllers on the other. I am very happy – and I also know that the food industry is very happy – that we can provide such a solution here, on the one hand for the transport industry and, on the other hand, also for trade in Austria. The second, which is of course also very pleasing – also for the economy – in terms of the problem in the taxi industry, is that now the taxis can also be kept in the crossing area. I think these are two measures which have been approved by both sides after a certain need for discussion. In this respect, I think we have taken two useful and necessary steps for the transport industry and for the taxi industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13383	The next speaker was Mr Walser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13404	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Minister, you have already pointed out the most encouraging statistics today: minus 44 percent dead by Alkolenker. The same Ruck, the same consequence as in the fight against the Alcolenkers, we would hope for – and that was what Mr Moser mentioned – in the fight against the shaving on Austria's streets. The calculation of Gabi Moser was, I think, impressive enough. That is why I would like to take a brief look at the request made by Mr Hagen on more shaving on Austria's roads. There a party colleague has already gotten a bloody nose when I think of the former Minister and Vice-Cancellor Hubert Gorbach. Of course, all the facts are against this proposal: More accidents, more congestion, more pollutants, more pollution would be the result. That's not a question at all. I'd rather recommend: If we want to fight for more safety on the roads, I would hope that Mr Hagen will also be fighting in the future if the Vorarlberg Government wants to shift the truck traffic away from the Lustenau crossing to the Mäder border crossing, stopping a hole to open another one. The farm of colleague Stadler might then be more assured than that he... – Well, I have an ally in the BZÖ, wonderful. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Cut!]] Thank you very much, Mr Stadler, in this case. A few facts: What would happen at Tempo 160, colleague Hagen? I am referring here to a study by the transport club Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck:... Germany driving! Nothing happens!]] The average distance: plus 42 percent; the average spray consumption: plus 27 percent; the CO2 emissions: plus 27 percent; the accident risk: plus 32 percent; the fatal accidents are even more serious: plus 81 percent. So: A higher pace doesn't bring it, that's exactly the wrong direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] We also have much more congestion, if I may remind you. At Tempo 130, we have about 2 300 vehicles per lane, at Tempo 160, it is just over 2,000. Everything is against this proposal. I'm sorry, no reasonable person can go with it. But I would have a suggestion: If it had to be tempo 160, I would recommend driving by train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13470	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13504	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I believe that all of us here believe that the safety of all road users must be at the centre of the interest of a very, very good transport policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] And I think I can calm everyone down and find that the Federal Government – with Mrs Bures at the top – is very good on the road. This shows the statistical figures. Some things have already been said: The Minister has referred to the figures in the field of young people and in the field of alcoholic road users. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: She kept the numbers quiet about the speed!]] The total number of accidents has been dramatically reduced over the last four years, especially in the last two years when the Minister was responsible. The number of injured has fallen, for example from 2 487 to 1 938, the number of killed has fallen sharply. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, because they're so fast!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We owe this to the blue light!]] So, Dr. Moser, I really can't understand your criticism. We are also against the fact that there is Raser, we are going against the Rasers. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, please!]] Your argument is more likely to suggest that you have not read a lot so carefully that you are overly anxious – literally – about the information. I can quote from the Committee on Transport: ‘For higher speed crossings, longer withdrawal times shall be set.’ [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, if you're 40 to 50!]] ‘This shall be phased in 20 km/h steps, each step setting a correspondingly longer period of withdrawal.’ I am asking you if you do not think that a longer withdrawal period is a good way of doing so. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but the problem is, you only have half read and quoted! ... if you're 40 to 50 over!]] Do you think that we can only achieve more with more penalties, with higher financial penalties? - I don't think so. Increasing speed, of course, increases the risk that reaction time decreases. This naturally leads to more accidents, and above all the energy increases with the square of speed: Double speed is called four times energy, three times speed is called nine times energy. And exactly the energy is what leads to the terrible effects that one really looks different after an accident than before. To Mr Hagen: I also need to continue the criticism. I don't know why you're making this request. In your speech you first said that it would not be a problem until 180 km/h, in the request you write 160 km/h. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] However, in your request for “a certain weather conditions and low traffic levels, ” they do not explain exactly how to do so. So that's more than just a request for the request for my term. As mayor, I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased that the Blue Light organisations are improving. For many volunteers it would be really unreasonable if they had to make an additional education. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Madam Minister, in the sense of road safety on Austria's roads, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13637	Next, Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13658	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! To the Blue Light Organisations, the following must be said: This request is of course also to be supported by us with great joy, because we from the BZÖ think that the voluntaryity belongs especially to the fire brigades, with the rescue forces et cetera. It is important that the forces come to the goal as soon as possible to help people in need. The regulation, as practiced in the past, that with the B-Führerschein one was not allowed to control the operating vehicles, even with only slightly exceeded weight, we think is too strict. We will, of course, support this request. Mr Heinzl! The Committee on Transport has to say – you have referred to it – that 24 requests were on the agenda in the Committee, 16 of which have been postponed, two have been completed, two have been rejected. I think you have to come here to the government. If you do not take the opposition's requests seriously or simply consider them unnecessary, then they belong to the plenary session, then the National Council must deal with them. If you reject the requests here in the House, you will have to argue to the people about why certain requests which are very useful are simply rejected by you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We discussed our request for the introduction of the six-month vignette in December 2009, then it was postponed. In November we debated again, now we have postponed again. Ladies and gentlemen! At some point I have to say that if you do not have any better solutions, we will discuss this next time in plenary. However, we remain on this issue because there are 220 000 change-mark users in Austria, and I certainly do not understand that the change-mark users are constantly being dropped. Because especially with regard to the change marks – at Oldtimern et cetera – the cars are usually used in summer, and therefore a six-month vignette is more than meaningful. Mrs Bundesminister, you mentioned in the Committee that it is not so in other EU countries. If you have a change mark, you have to pay for the second car. That's not the case with us. Why did we introduce the vignette? - Whoever uses the motorway is supposed to pay, and who does not use the motorway is not. So I don't realize you're going back to the drivers. You'll be asked enough for the cash register. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One important point I would like to address is the ban on trucks. Just now at the first winter break-ins we have seen it: How did most fatal accidents happen? – With trucks that were far too fast on the road. [[Abg. New builder: If they had summer tires!]] Please? Of course, they had summer tires. They've had worn tires. What were they? It was foreign trucks. It was too little controlled. That's exactly what all of this is about to change in the future. For this reason, we believe that there is a ban on overcrowding is important – so that the shavings stop so that security on Austria's roads is improved. For the safety of Austrian drivers and drivers, moped drivers et cetera, we should really try to ensure that this ban for trucks enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13707	Next, Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13728	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: -in! Mrs. Federal Minister in is her!]] They have rightly pointed out that the number of fatalities is declining, but we still have to take all measures to further increase road safety. This is first of all the road safety in the form of the equipment of the vehicles. There have been recent technical developments in this area over the last 10 years, which have certainly contributed to the fact that accidents are no longer so severe and perhaps not so often fatal. What makes me particularly happy, of course, as a fireman and as the location leader of the Red Cross, is that it is now so far as we can create framework conditions for our forces. I believe that the equipment of the operational vehicles also makes a significant contribution to the fact that there is a minus in the number of fatalities. Better equipment means faster on-site assistance. For the forces it means a certain relief not always to have in the back of the head that you are not entitled to steer the vehicle if a person is more inside. I don't think that's a good condition for military forces. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that training, testing and confirming the suitability of the forces will also be carried out. I am pleased that this issue was dealt with almost unanimously in the Committee, which could be discussed by Mr Rosenkranz's FPÖ request and we have also made it possible to train public transport areas by establishing a committee. In this sense, I thank you for the unanimity – for our intervention organisations, for our fire brigades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13774	Mr Dolinschek is the next person to whom I give the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13795	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I have heard very well your comments on the law enforcement of foreign road users who do not comply with our traffic limits. It is not understandable to any Austrian transport operator that the data will be followed if one travels in neighbouring countries and makes speed crossings, but this is also not based on reciprocity by the countries of the European Union. No one understands. That is why I must also say that it is important that we have the principle of equality in this respect and take action if foreign road users travelling on Austrian motorways believe that they can use it as a race track. I have noticed very well that drastic measures can be taken to withdraw the vehicle from the driver's license and withdraw it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, it is also true that every Austrian road passenger who travels a lot on the roads is annoyed by what is called federalism in the Austrian criminal framework. There are different measures in each federal state at up to 20 km/h speed crossing. In Upper Austria, for example, €29 will be lifted in an anonymous form, in Vorarlberg 60, and in between the height will be commuted to other federal states. You can have minor infringements of 12 km/h, 14 km/h or 15 km/h and pay 40, 45, 50 or 60 €. Nobody understands. In this area, there would have to be a uniform catalogue of penalties throughout the country instead of federalism. Nobody understands. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As far as the speed limits are concerned, I must say that we need speed flexibility, Mr Hagen has already explained that sufficiently. It's a sub whether the road is wet or ice-smooth Snowfall prevails or dry roadway and good view. Motor vehicles are today at a high level, they have ABS and ESP. In principle, this rate limit of 130 km/h is rooted in the 1970s. Today we are in 2010, it would actually have to be a change, to the flexible tempo limit – of course, only on three-track and two-track motorways. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For the ban: Everyone knows it's a mistake if you can often go after several kilometers on a two-track highway behind the trucks, because two trucks deliver a private race and one with a difference of 2 or 3 km/h can hardly overtake the other. Mrs. Federal Minister! There would have to be a general ban on trucks on two-track motorways. Now I'm still coming to the blue light organizations. I am very happy about this 13. Novelle driving licence law, which includes that the members of the Blue Light Organisations – the Fire Departments, the Rescue Organisations and so on – can now also control operating vehicles up to five and a half tons with an additional training. In any case, it is a step forward for the blue light organizations. If you have been with the fire brigade for 40 years, you can also appreciate it. I believe that this will be a good thing for all the other blue light organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13858	Next, Mr Stauber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13880	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Values listeners! I should like to join my colleague, Mr Dolinschek. I am one of those who travels a lot on the motorways and as far as possible adheres to traffic regulations, and above all, that we can increase our responsibility for foreign lawns in our country. The bird is also shown in tunnels of foreigners when one adheres to the regulations. The persecution must be able to be strengthened. I therefore also represent the lead towards EUCARIS vehement. Mrs Minister, I think this is a first step. They themselves are committed to developing a European directive to ensure that the cross-border persecution and exchange of data can really take place. As mayor, who himself has a large support force and nine fire brigades in his community, I am of course also very pleased that the request of the fire brigades is finally fulfilled. I know for myself that it is not easy, especially in rural areas, to bring the comrades together when they are blown to a stake, and to have the people who can control the deployment vehicles. The fact that it really comes to relief is very positive for me. I am also pleased for the intervention organisations, especially for the fire brigade, that this will be decided today. I would also like to thank the thousands of volunteer firemen in Austria from this point of view. Mr President, pass this on to your thousands of comrades, on behalf of the Austrian communities and all the Members of the House! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13916	Mr Linder is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13939	Madam President. Estimated Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! When I made the driver's license, a large poster with the following text hung in the driver's office: “22 percent of road accidents are caused by alcoholic drivers. This means that 78 percent of traffic accidents are caused by fast drivers. Can't these sober idiots disappear from the street to increase traffic safety by 400 percent?" My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God belongs to this thinking of the past. I think alcohol at the wheel is no longer a cavalier's crime today. I also think it is very important that we take a good example to show our children that alcohol at the tax is not a cavalier offence to show in the community as a politician that alcohol at the tax is not a cavalier offence. I think that as an organizer, you should organize home travel aids so that people can celebrate and drink calmly. I mean, it works. What makes me particularly happy today is the fire brigade license. I think there's nothing worse for a fireman than the following: The siren howls, you come to the firehouse, you have a team together and you can't jump out because the drivers are missing. Especially in small rural communities, it is almost impossible to get the strength of use together during the day. But I also believe that this decision should be a little pointing for us, that we should return more responsibility to the organisations, to the citizen and not try to regulate everything, not believe that we must make very precise, sharp laws everywhere. I think the fire brigades know how to deal with it. This is a real and good step in this direction – more freedom for citizens, more freedom of choice for blue light organisations. As a fireman, I am very pleased with today's decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13973	Mrs Mag. Hakl is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13994	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's all been said, just not by me. That's how it happens to me sometimes. That's why it's only very short to three points. First: You, Mrs. Federal Minister, and also our Transport Spokesman, Ferry Maier, congratulate you on the balanced package to increase road safety. With 900 road fatalities we are very good in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No!]] This figure continues to decline. I would also like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that in Austria more people commit suicide than in the case of traffic accidents, and to draw attention to the fact that we use a lot of time and energy to correct these fatalities, but that psychotherapist treatment for depressed people in this country continues to ridicule every description from my point of view. It is really urgent to be active in health care so that we also have fewer suicides and not just fewer deaths. I hope that next year we will continue to do something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As regards the confiscation of vehicles, I would draw attention to the fact that vehicles are only ensured until a safety performance is achieved. In fact, it is not possible to seize the witnesses in themselves because it would in part be anti-equilibrium. This has already been judged in Italy. For example, one could not seize the vehicle of a leaser whose owner is not he but the leasing company – because this was repeatedly demanded by colleagues. Mrs Moser, very briefly to the ban on the second track. In the Inntal, we have a two-track highway and a truck ban over long distances. I enjoy this very much. It is indeed incredibly dangerous if you drive a little faster and a truck scraps off at 80 km/h. Nevertheless, I believe that a general ban on overtaking does not make sense. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Well, it's only about two tracks! We don't care about three and four tracks!]] I am in favour of a general ban on the operation and use of the third and fourth tracks for trucks and for bans on overrun, which are constantly interconnected, where the trucks can also overtake on the second track. We have to give the truck the opportunity to overtake. There are trucks that can drive 70 km/h on a permanent basis, others could and would drive 100, and the fatigue of truck drivers, who drive for hours behind another 70 km/h, would greatly increase the frequency of the accident from my point of view. That is why an overcrowded ban on overcrowding lines would be imaginable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14066	Mr Singer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14087	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present draft legislation is a real security package. On the one hand, we are consistently fighting shaving, on the other hand, we want to ensure that the rescue forces can be on the spot quickly and help if something happens in road traffic. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is welcome in this context that you have taken up the initiative of the ÖVP, Mr. Hans Rädler, and continue to pursue the introduction of the escape alley on our roads and hopefully implement it quickly. An important point in the driving licence law Novelle is that the driving licence class B will in future be entitled to drive operating vehicles up to a weight of 5.5 tonnes, because the increasing technical equipment has made the operating vehicles more versatile, but also significantly heavier. In particular, voluntary staff in the fire department and in rescue organizations should be able to steer these vehicles. It is essential that the organisations issue a confirmation of the special suitability of the persons employed, i.e. that the training has been completed. This is an important accompanying provision for me. Ladies and gentlemen! Thousands of volunteers carry out their valuable service to our society every day. For this we say thank you and create framework conditions that meet the requirements today's decision. However, I see this novelle not only as a practical necessity, but also as an indication that the equipment of our rescue and deployment organisations has been further developed. That is to say, we have God thanks to rescue and intervention organizations with tax resources, with the support of the economy, with donations from many, many people and with the use of volunteer and full-time staff are very well equipped – equipped for those people who need help in a particular emergency situation. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud to have such great organisations in Austria. We can be proud of the many volunteer people, and we can be proud of the many great assistance to the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14136	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14157	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate High House! One important point is also the question of the regulation of the weekend driving ban for trucks and the exceptions to it depending on the load. Trucks carrying fresh fruit, vegetables, fresh meat, meat products, fresh fish, fish products or, of course, milk and milk products are now generally excluded from the ban on weekend driving. This is precisely regulated. So far, it has been a complicated matter to ensure the supply of remote markets. It has always been possible to obtain derogations from national governments, and a transport from the vegetable sector in eastern Austria, for example to Linz or even further, to Salzburg, has employed several state governments, and there has always been trouble in the correct implementation. We have now facilitated and ruled out a system that makes these valuable transports possible. We can all be sure that on Monday we can buy fresh products in the morning, have on the table and have a good meal. I thank you for the relief. This is also an active transport policy, and it is also a step towards administrative reform, although a small one, but for those who are concerned, a very important one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14190	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14212	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think the debate has shown that there are many proposals and many requests for road safety across the parties. I think today's decision is an important contribution to increasing road safety. Looking back on last week: Ten victims of death were in road traffic, one of them pedestrians, a cyclist, and eight victims of death were bus, truck and passenger passengers. Of these eight people, five have failed due to unadapted speed. That is to say, the pace is one of the main causes of fatal traffic accidents, and of course the road situation is also an important factor in this season. I think we need additional measures, especially as regards pedestrians. Additional measures are needed especially for pedestrians and cyclists. Ge Transport accidents occur very often on the protection routes, and it often affects older people, but also young people, especially on the school road, when crossing the protection routes. In the future, we also need, as Mr Maier has already said, motorways on motorways and highways. Madam Minister, I believe that this desire and task should be met as quickly as possible. It is important that we have succeeded today in creating a breakthrough by creating a legal basis for foreign lawns. I think that has always been a wish on the part of the local population, who has asked again and again: What are you doing against foreign traffic jokes? Today, I believe, we have succeeded in taking the first step here. But we need further steps and further reciprocity arrangements in order to be able to conclude agreements with other countries. For me, there are three cornerstones: On the one hand, to increase the punishment of the lawns, the possibility of punishing foreign traffic lawns, and, of course, the preeminent system, which I believe is an educational measure. I only have one wish, Mrs. Minister: We need more information in the future, especially as regards the premise system, and I believe that more emphasis and information is needed, because I think these are very useful measures, but people need to be reminded of them over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14257	Mr Pendl is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14278	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the so-called fire brigade and rescue licence. A long-standing, legitimate wish is being fulfilled today with this decision-making process. Thank you and your team very much, Mrs Federal Minister, but above all I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Transport Committee. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as detonatative applause and thank-you call at the BZÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Next year, Europe celebrates the Year of Volunteers. Austria is best placed in international comparison with regard to voluntaryness. I believe that today's decision could not be made at a better time, because it creates framework conditions for our blue light organizations, which they simply have a right to because of the progressive technicalization. I would like to thank personally – and I hope, on behalf of all my colleagues, all of the fire brigade comrades, employees of the Blue Light organizations very much. All right, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14318	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the road traffic regulations, the driving licence law and the motor vehicle law, including the title and entry into 1020 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their agreement to this draft, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Furthermore, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the driving licence law, including the title and receipt in 1021 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We arrive at the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their agreement at third reading, to give a sign on this point. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1021 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 135.) We shall vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report 1022 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 1023 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[15:28:14]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (918 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code 1975, the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Law on Criminal Organisation for the Strengthening of Criminal Jurisdiction (Court Law Pack – sKp) (1009 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (924 e.g._Other Organiser Convention establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an International Organization (1010 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on Amendment 317/A(E) by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues on criminal liability of criminal banking and financial services managers (1011 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Justice Committee on Amendment 536/A by Mr Harald Vilimsky, colleagues on a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Actions Threatened by Judicial Penalty (Strafgesetzbuch – StGB), BGBl. No. 60/1974, amended (1012 d.a.) 15. Point Report by the Justice Committee on Amendment No 539/A by Mr Werner Herbert, colleagues on a federal law with which the Federal Law on the acts threatened by judicial penalties (Strafgesetzbuch – StGBl). No. 60/1974, amended (1013 d.a.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1240/A(E) by Mr Mag. Ewald Stadler, colleagues on improved fight against economic crime (1014 d.a.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 775/A by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues in a federal law that amends the criminal code and the criminal code (1015 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution 1289/A(E) by Dr Martin Strutz, Josef Jury, Maximilian Linder, colleagues and colleagues on the planned economic competence centres in the framework of the "Strasbourgeitrechts Kompetenzpaket" (1016 a.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14516	We now come to points 11 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14543	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I can tell you in advance that my group will vote in favour of the package of criminal jurisdiction and that we will also agree to the Convention establishing an International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation. However, what seems to be worth mentioning at this point is the fact that two important applications that were dealt with in the judicial committee, namely two of my group's requests, unfortunately did not find a majority. I think it makes sense, but it is also important to discuss this again in detail, perhaps to have a positive opinion on your part, in particular the colleagues in the SPÖ, the ÖVP and also the Greens, whom you voted against in committee at the time. On the one hand, Mr Vilimsky's request, which clearly states in this motion that freedom of assembly is an important and untouchable achievement in our society, however, it is also sad reality that there are now outpourings, material damage and also violent attacks against executive officials, and that, in order to counter these negative tendencies effectively, a corresponding measure is to be created in the form of an intensification, of its own state of action in § 91 StGB. The second request, which relates to it, is my own request. It notes that more and more officials of the Authority, and here more and more executive officials, are increasingly confronted with claims of protection, and that it is simply trying to achieve a strategic advantage in the process or also in the media. As a result, these officials – often executive officials – often arrive in very threatening situations. They also suffer considerable disadvantages, regardless of the damage to their private reputation, from the criminal proceedings that are often related to them, and it is also necessary not to forget the often related disciplinary sanctions or also service-law disadvantages or impairments. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I think it is also necessary, in the form of a “qualified slander” – under quotation marks – to put in place measures to protect these institutions of the State which stop these tendencies by clearly indicating, on the one hand, the limits of an overwhelming accusation of officials in the form of a general prevention from the rule of law, and, on the other hand, I think it is necessary to provide a useful protection mechanism so that our police officers can fully follow their difficult and often dangerous profession. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14595	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14616	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think it is clear to all of us that economic crime, especially economic crime in a very complex, organized form with very high amounts of damage, also causes great damage to the overall economic system and thus also damage to our society. It is therefore important to monitor these crimes effectively. There have also been some examples in recent years and sometimes also the complaint that in such proceedings a prosecutor is confronted by an army of experts, economic lawyers, experts and therefore has a very difficult state of being able to explain a complicated, complex situation accordingly. We are responding today by deciding on a comprehensive so-called "competence package" which consists of several parts. On the one hand, there are new provisions, additional, more stringent provisions on the use of enrichment. It should be more efficient to extract the enrichment of economic crime from organised crime and thus simply make these crimes more unattractive. There is also a provision that increases the transparency of public prosecutors' decisions. I also think that is a very essential point. We've got in. the discussion over the past few months has seen the difficulty of discussing some of the decisions, some of the proceedings within the judicial system, difficult especially for justice itself, especially for the competent Federal Minister, because, on the one hand, personal rights are affected, data protection plays a role, and, on the other hand, some investigations can be threatened by discussing them publicly. There is at least one step to give the possibility that decisions – in particular recruitment decisions will be made – will also be published in a transparent manner to the prosecutor's office, together with reasons, and thus to clarify why an attitude has been made to take one of the Nimbuss, who sometimes surrounds such decisions, and to create more transparency here. A very, very important part of this package of competence is the creation of a single and central public prosecutor's office, in future together with the previous corruption attorney's office in Vienna, in order to really enable appropriate training measures to collect the appropriate expertise, to also share with external experts economic experience, and to be able to effectively clarify such crimes with this Austrian central investigative authority for economic criminal and corruption. This package of expertise also introduces the new prod­ucts. In the case of all the concerns about the regulations that exist – I do not want to repeat everyone now – our way has been to say: We want to try to introduce such a mechanism in the field of competition and antitrust, so to speak. There have been these for a number of years, which has also proved itself there. The Procedural Regulation is an efficient way of enabling information on organised crime, organised crime by providing incentives for stakeholders to go out here so to speak, so to speak, to make the relevant advertisements so that they can participate in the investigation – and, of course, get a corresponding advantage for them. This is also the central criticism of it, but I believe that it is worth this price and we choose here a very careful variant of a decency regime, because, on the one hand, it is not in every case the freedom of punishment, but what is granted in favour of participation in the investigation, is also to be in a relationship with the contribution to the investigation. It must be an essential contribution. Finally, we have included the provisions on the criminality of terrorist camps. That too, I believe, is an important point. I would like to thank all those who have been involved here, especially the Federal Minister and her team in the ministry, because it was also possible to obtain the competence of the national courts in the field of the competence package and here, with an amendment that is still being tabled today, to reverse, so that, in future, the national courts are still responsible, but the possibility of a delegation to the central economic court in Vienna exists. I believe that an important step we have finally taken. Thank you to all those who have contributed here. Since this is an extensive and new right of organisation, new organisational steps in the field of economic crime, I should like to make a motion for a resolution calling for an evaluation here. and then forward the relevant reports to the National Council. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by seeking your approval of this important measure in the fight against economic crime, which will also bring about appropriate success. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14710	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14762	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14783	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We also regard this package of criminal jurisdiction as positive in a wide range of areas, especially the concentration of economic offences in a single, central place in Vienna. This is certainly extremely useful, and most of these crimes take place in Vienna. Now it is true that here some experienced, but also less experienced, judges and prosecutors of an Armada of well-trained and well-trained lawyers, are facing economic lawyers. It is a matter of ensuring “weapon equality” in this important area, and that is certainly positive. What we do not understand is that at the same time a request made by Mr Stadler on the increase of staff in this field was rejected by all other parties other than the BZO in the Committee. I believe that 80 additional posts would be an additional aspect for you, Mrs Federal Minister, too, in order to be able to actively combat economic crime. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We consider the evidence regulation to be positive when it comes to moving fellow perpetrators to participate in the investigation of the crime. However, we believe that legal uncertainty in this area and the discretionary room that is given is a very large one and one has to look very carefully at the practice, whether it will really be as striking as the experts imagine. There are a few things you should really discuss: In the case of murder, the decency regime, i.e. the free purchase of a criminal responsibility, is not excluded, in the case of murder attempt. It is also not clear how high the actual contribution of action can be in order to be freed from this criminal persecution. With regard to the improvement of transparency in law enforcement, we only believe that the division should also be involved. I believe that this will continue to be discussed in the future. We agree with another proposal, the establishment of the International Anti-Corruption Academy, but it is already a bit strange that we are now deciding on the agreement, but this Academy was opened a few months ago, but please, that is perhaps an Austrian unicum. That's how it should be. We hope that this anti-corruption academy will work anyway or especially well. We do not see a point positive, from the principle of criminality for trainees and trainees in terrorist camps, which we consider to be positive, and we must say that our request, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, who has already established contact with such terrorist camps, has unfortunately been rejected by all the other parties. But – and now the great But – what I do not understand is that in a committee, apparently on the basis of the operation of the SPÖ, there has been resistance in the ÖVP, as was acceptable in the Committee, expressly indicated that this criminality should only be applicable in certain cases, not when the criminal acts are aimed at the “reestablishment of democratic and rule of law, the support of legally recognised objectives of protection or the exercise or safeguarding of human rights”. Now you have to imagine what this is about: This is about murder, it is about serious body injury, it is about intentional threat, it is about air piracy, that is, about the threat of human life, perhaps a large number of human lives, and that should be justified when this terrorist organization states that it is only about the safeguarding of human rights, the enforcement of rule of law structures?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Prevent deportations!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am already aware of what the background – which is also enshrined in the law – is this legal provision: They wanted to express in the past that resistance fighters are not to be equated with terrorists. I understand that historically, too. But this is a bill that is intended for the present, which is directed towards the future. We have been developing over the last 50 or 60 years, and there is a ban on self-justice, both for individuals and for groups as well as for organizations, even for states, ladies and gentlemen. That is why this justification section should be abolished. The Committee's position is wrong, and the law must also be amended. There can be no justification anymore – no matter what goal: whether for murder, for killing, for injury to the body, for damage to property! There are clear instances here that are anchored for enforcement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I ask you, Mrs Minister for Justice: Should the individual judge at the national court be above this if someone at an Al-Qaeda camp enjoy training, whether this really serves to achieve the rule of law, namely, the Sharia in Afghanistan, because Mr Karzai is not democratically legitimate, because there has been so much suffocation? And should that justify that someone, an Austrian citizen, can be trained in a terrorist camp for murder and bombing?- Oh, my God! There is a need for action, and against this background I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would be a clear signal that only state structures, international organisations, are in charge of what is a justified measure to achieve political goals – but at least no self-justice in terrorist camps!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14859	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14911	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14932	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, I think it is a complete recognition that you have now presented, the regulation, namely the clarification made in the Committee. On this occasion I must also thank the fact that we have taken a little time for the other materials in order to prevent pre-disposition crimes from being so undetermined that they are interpreted differently by each authority. And we have this issue, too. In fact, it is not a question of preventing or punishing crimes such as murder and all these crimes, but it is a matter of looking at who is for such a thing. This is the first time you have been prepared. And already, it must be ensured that events that are used, for example, to introduce whale methods to the prangler are not meant and other things are not meant. That is why the finding – and I believe that is relatively clear – is that the catalogue penalties do not apply “if the committed crime is aimed at the production or restoration of democratic and legal conditions, the support of legally recognised protection objectives...”. And then you can't go there and talk about the Sharia and other things, which are usually also misused here, but it's perfectly clear that these crimes are included. However, it should not be as we know from a number of recent discussions that one authority is being persecuted for something where three other authorities – we know that – have stopped the persecution. Here, in all cases, the legislators are invited to confess themselves clearly here. I therefore believe that the rule in itself is a very reasonable and also a very efficient one, and no one wants terrorist camps in the manner cited here. This new law is otherwise also a very positive one, because many things are being innovationized, which in the past have also been identified as a manko. We have already discussed this x-time here – this is always true of the antitrust law, but if the person affected in the antitrust law has made his statement, who was still co-cartelant, then he was prosecuted under the criminal law, which has led to the fact that no man of course wanted to say any more. In fact, the elevator cartel and the driving school cartel have only flown up because this regulation has passed, and it is now being further developed. Through the new anti-corruption public prosecutorship, which is further developed into an economic prosecutorship, we will have a very efficient and highly professionally trained expert group that is opposed to economic crime. Finally, we have held a discussion about this – this prosecutor's office is responsible throughout the country – whether or not one should also establish a competent court in Vienna, which should be solely responsible for the whole federal territory for such crimes, i.e. that both the prosecutor and the Court of Justice are specialised. There were then various objections to the fact that the courts in the federal states were equally able to conduct these negotiations. What particularly impressed me was that the competent President of the Vienna Regional Court declared that he did not wish for it, it should not be so. Therefore, we have finally come to the conclusion that, in principle, the responsibilities in the countries remain, however, by calling, both from the corruption prosecutor's office and then from the new economic prosecutor's office, as well as from a party, a matter, if it is particularly precarious, particularly comprehensive, particularly complicated from the point of view, can be brought to the court in Vienna. After we have also held a discussion that social fraud statistics are particularly important to be persecuted, because of course it is all our taxpayers' money and in many cases the prosecutors do not really follow here, including a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Donnerbauer and Mr Stadler: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Justice is asked to consider whether, taking into account the complexity of the actions of social fraud and the number of proceedings relating to such crimes, a approximation of procedural rules to the requirements of the criminal justice package seems useful.” I assume that what we are still open can then also be closed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15004	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is also sufficiently supported. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15050	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15071	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly address the request that was rejected by the Committee on Budgets, by Mr Werner Herbert, 539/A, because I simply cannot understand why it is a very good request, has been rejected. In the case of the Greens, I can understand it less, I can understand it at ÖVP and SPÖ, because their preliminary bodies in the field of personnel representation call for something quite similar before the personnel representation elections. That is why I do not understand that these votes in the staff representation do not penetrate up to the Members of Parliament, and that is actually a very good request. I can only understand it if one says that opposition applications, no matter how good they are, are in principle rejected at all. To get to the content: Of course, executive officials, police officers, judicial guards are always particularly vulnerable to be miscredited by various assumptions and false claims. This can result in both the consequences of criminal law and the reputation of the official who fulfils his duty. Just a short example to conclude: I have here a report from the “Small Newspaper” of 26. fished out on November 2010: Prisoner injured – now finds out the prosecutor. There was a very similar thing: A nurse who took medical care of a prisoner was attacked by him with a medical device. As a result, the law enforcement officers are excited to help the nurse and have overwhelmed the prisoner. What was the result? The prisoner claimed that it was in excess of emergency aid. I think that this is certainly a very bad sign and goes entirely in the wrong direction. That is why I think it would be good for the government parties to rethink this once again and here not only with thanks and recognition at the speaker's desk, but also with actions, i.e. with the approval of various good opposition requests, to be put behind the executives. I would therefore ask that this be rethinked and that Mr Herbert's request be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15120	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15141	Ladies and gentlemen! In front of us is a long overdue package. I remember that for the strict anti-corruption rules to be tightened, you, Mrs. Justice Minister, just needed three months after your fishing visit – for the implementation of the Leniency Regulation for 18 months. It is a pity that a public debate on maladministration has only taken place in order to bring about the necessary pressure to make changes here. But this does not change the fact that the package as a whole is a step in the right direction. The Leniency Regulation is an international success, it is a success in antitrust law. If one hears that 80 percent of the cases could be taken up by cartel law, then it speaks a clear language. That is the key to breaking up corrupt systems, and therefore, I believe, is also justified in the consequence of the freedom of punishment. I also very much welcome the fact that, if they apply for this, the public prosecutors will now be obliged to settle criminal proceedings against the victims. In the sense of efficiency, this is also in order that an own application is necessary. This measure is therefore necessary because, so far, victims End This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. That's different now. What I do not understand, however, is that in the context of the budget accompanying law, you want to punish those victims who make proposals for continuation by charging 90 € fee in case of rejection of the continuation request. We will have to talk about it, because I think that is a wrong measure. We're going to turn to the budget accompanying law in the next few weeks. I also welcome the fact that, in Glamour Falls, the Legal Protection Officer can now make further requests. All of this ensures greater transparency and trust. We would have used this before, which would probably have brought you some less disturbed vacation. We know that some holiday or other you have had to cancel because of judicial debates. I also believe that the creation of the central economic and corruption prosecutorship is right. We are creating a powerful, highly specialized authority. This will certainly lead to more efficiency and more quality in the persecution of economic crimes. But the best and most proper concern is to do a bad job if one does not involve those affected. ==References== October I received a letter from the president of the prosecutors, Mag. Jarosh, where he writes: With great strangers, we, the Austrian prosecutors, had to take note that the Council of Ministers submitted to the National Council a government document to create a central prosecutor for the prosecution of economic and corruption crimes. We received this information from the radio without having been involved in any conversation before. - Quote. I not only think this is a bad style, but of course it also creates bad blood in the thing. What does Jarosh play on? – The Ministerial Draft provided that there were four centres of competence and that criminal matters were then negotiated at the national courts. Very soon, before that came to the Council of Ministers, everything was suddenly different: There is a central economic and corruption prosecutorship, and everything is negotiated at the Landesgericht Wien. We then discussed this in the Committee on Justice. There has obviously been massive protest. All the national court presidents have said: No, we don't want that to be deducted from the national courts! - Until the Justice Committee, it didn't matter. Yesterday, the President of the Vienna Regional Court, Forsthuber, said: We Wiener do not want everything to be negotiated in Vienna! Today, the amendment comes as follows: It's all back again. Not everything is negotiated in Vienna, but it is to be renegotiated at the federal courts in the federal states. You can actually discuss all of this, but the procedure is simply unprofessional. I can't spare this accusation. There is no clear line: Once everything in the countries, once everything in the Wiener Landesgericht. This does not exactly strengthen the confidence in your legitimate planning, Mrs Minister of Justice! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not much different on the topic of “terrorist camps”. We are dealing with a package on economic crime today. And a small section deals with the question of the criminality of terrorist camps. In the case you can discuss it again REN. But, first of all, It has nothing to do with economic crime. Well, you can do it purely formally. It's the criminal code. Only: The procedure is, in turn, unprofessional. There is a package of you: This is the Terrorist Prevention Act, and there is already a wealth of existing criminal provisions regarding criminal organisation, terrorist association. It would have been a long time to look at all these paragraphs, to look at them where there are misdevelopments. I'm just saying, § 278a, § 278b, i.e. “Criminal Organisation” – that is the famous “Animal Protection Paragraph” – but also “Terrorist Association”. There has also been the application of this paragraph in certain criminal proceedings. It would have been high time to say: Yes, there are different paragraphs! There's a need for change, that's at the terrorist camps! Let's take a look at this with experts! Let's see that we're making existing paragraphs useless! – Then you can fill any legal gaps. This debate was not meant to take place. Therefore, an amendment introduced the criminality of terrorist camps in the bill on “Economic Crime”. We don't have our approval for that. We do not agree with any other terrorist camp paragraphs or other paragraphs unless you are discussing existing abuse opportunities in connection with the "Terrorist Association" and the "Criminal Organization". That is why we are going to have a separate vote on this issue today. 1 Z 10 desire. We will not agree to the second reading request concerning terrorist camps, not because we are not in principle willing to discuss, but because we want these sanctions to be made out of a cast. I also need to address the FPÖ and the SPÖ. The FPÖ and SPÖ have both critically expressed themselves on the Terrorism Prevention Act. This has been very helpful, and this has also been very helpful for the rule of law of these parties in this very sensitive area. It has also been recognized that there is a danger that the Austrian and the Austrian are the best-guarded citizens, but in fact become the best of the most guarded citizens. What I don't understand, however, is why one agrees that some of them, namely the terrorist camps, are being wiped out. The ÖVP is a party to hard negotiations. She only understands one thing: She wants something, and for that she gives something! The story looks like this: The ÖVP wants the terrorist camps and gets them and has nothing to give. Who believes that in other areas one still comes to reforms, who dreams. For this, the ÖVP understands the political business – under quotations – “too good”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15257	It now has Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15279	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what Long and Short Butterfly Spread Options are? Do you know what a Plain Vanilla option is or possibly a Split Capital Investment Trust? – All these are just these things to get it into the This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. A prosecutor sees himself today in such proceedings to an Armada of highly specialized lawyers. This creates an imbalance, and this is supposed to change. This is to be changed by the so-called WKSTA, the economic and corruption prosecutor's office. This means better practical training. That means team education. This means the acquisition of know-how and also specialization in order to resolve and secure criminally acquired assets. Then: Crimes must not be worth it. The whole thing is to take place where there is already an infrastructure. Above all, it is very important to deal with the corruption prosecutor's office, because it is often impossible to distinguish between corruption and the fight against economic crime. The demarcation is very, very difficult. That is why this is to be done in a central position. By the way, for the procedure: The whole was a result of a review procedure. They were all involved, including the prosecutors. If Mr Jarosch does not come to the meeting, I cannot do so either. But it should not only be decided on more com petence, ladies and gentlemen, but also more transparency should be decided, because transparency creates trust. As you know, some time ago there was the great pre-procedural reform. The function of prosecutors has changed dramatically. You are now the men and women of the investigation process, so to speak. Public prosecutor's decisions are in principle not public. This is a feeding ground for conspiracy theories and for misunderstandings. This too is supposed to change. In particular, recruitment decisions in procedures of particular public interest are now to be published on the Internet. Victims should now be better informed of why a trial against a suspect has been initiated. And the position of the legal protection officer should be strengthened. But not only competence and transparency are very important for the rule of law, but also suitable modern instruments are important. This is where we come to the Credentials Regulation. Especially in the area of corruption and economic crime, the perpetrators are particularly conservative. It is important to break up criminal structures. We will be helped by the instrumentation scheme. In the antitrust law, it is even 90 percent of the cases revealed by the Leniency Notice. So she was really a great success there. I am also very pleased that this package will include the provisions against terrorist camps. Ladies and gentlemen, in times like this, it is simply necessary to make such provisions. I mean, the terrorist threat is omnipresent. I don't think anyone here is going to argue that the risk of terror is serious. It is a very important package that is being decided here today. I am convinced that more transparency, greater competence and better instruments will increase confidence in justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15352	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15375	Madam President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Since justice also has to make its contribution to the federal savings package, although we know that this is certainly one of those areas where the wrong place has been saved – the staff has been addressed – I would like to talk about the fact that, in addition to the undoubtedly positive aspects of the criminal centre of competence in Vienna, a negative aspect is also hidden, namely that, in reality, a devalue of the regional courts in the federal states is affected. They have talked about the review procedure in which all have been involved in advance. At the end of October, when the assessment period came to an end, we submitted a request here to the House, which referred in particular to the planned economic competence centres in the framework of the "Strasbourgal Competence Package". Here, as you know, plans have been made for economic processes to be handled at only four locations in Austria at an amount of €5 million or more in the course of or with the targeting of efficiency improvement. We have therefore also tabled this request in the light of the fact that there should not be a two-class justice and that the importance of the regional courts should not be reduced, in the same way the procedures would of course also be expensive. Now, if we look at the law that we decide here today, we create – and this is the positive aspect – a central prosecutor's office for the persecution of economic crimes and corruption here and with its headquarters in Vienna. What I do not understand – and that was also the reason for our request – is that the jurisdiction of the courts for the treatment of these cases in Vienna is also centered. It is stated in § 32a, “Responsibility for Economic Criminals and Corruption”: ‘The State Criminal Court Vienna established special court departments, “the leadership of the main proceedings on the basis of charges” as I have already quoted them for the whole federal territory. That means nothing more than that there will be a massive devaluation of the national courts, of course, including... – Yes, Mr Scheibner, as we know, I was still free Members at this time, and I had no opportunity to do so in committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your group has rejected the request.]] That is why I would like to point out once again that it really includes a hidden devaluation and saving of this location. I would ask you, Madam Minister of Justice, to take account of it and perhaps to consider whether these procedures cannot also be negotiated in the regional area.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15410	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15431	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! To my previous speaker: Nobody understands that at all! One creates a centre of competence because one knows that very complex economic procedures cannot at present be pursued with the necessary efficiency. We know that very specialised law firms are facing a court of justice, for which it is often only now possible to ensure the necessary training and comprehensive expertise in the future with this law. This is a specialization. This does not involve any devaluation of other courts at all, especially since we know that 95 percent of the Causen that it is about are already subject to the court of Vienna. And it is almost in all cases Vienna law firms that take over the representation of the accused or the defendant. As one can construct from the fact that this actually involves a hidden devaluation of other courts, only the willful imagination of a Member like you can really arise. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's about the criminal case of Hypo Alpe-Adria! That's the point!]] I'm sure this allegation is wrong. We want at last to be able to fight with the necessary speed and with the necessary effectiveness those Causen we all know – from Meinl to Immofinanz. That's what we all want. In any case, I had understood that so far. But hardly does the Minister of Justice make it serious, sets out the necessary measures, sets the right course, is already criticized – with arguments that are at best Shina arguments. Then you have to ask: Is that what these Members might not want to do? Could be true, too. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I do not want to fight economic crime consistently! I am indifferent to the economic location and its appearance! – But then you should say it like that and not hide behind dubious, bad arguments. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's just afraid he'll have to say in Vienna in the hypo thing!]] Furthermore, we all experience that the prosecution is always faced with massive criticism of various media. Especially in major economic cases – and as a case-by-case example of the Causa Meinl – it could also be related to the appropriate advertising links when reporting makes a victim role from the perpetrator within a few weeks. Therefore, in the future, the public prosecutor's office must also be given the opportunity to publicise and justify its position within the framework of what law enforcement entails and what the protection of individuals allows for transparency. Finally, I would like to express the wish that the judicial authorities – precisely because they have a major role to play in the public sector’s economic crime and we want and need to strengthen the people’s confidence in justice – should display a much more professional communication work in the future and create the conditions for it. It is certainly well-invested in the interests of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15487	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15537	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I believe that the judicial package is all right. I would just like to say on the subject of Special State Advocates, Special Courts: This discussion is actually ancient, Mrs. Federal Minister! I think, however, because of the development, today it is very easy to see that in many areas, whether the prosecutors or the courts, there is an increasing need for specializations. I think it is quite legitimate to be able to hold this discussion without a court being devalued. More – I mean – can Don't say that. Because of something to interpret in, every foundation and logic, as I mean, lacks meaning. But I also believe that it is quite legitimate... I am just wondering about the statement, Mr Steinhauser, that we had not properly discussed the question with the terrorist camps. This was discussed in all areas for months. Whether you like it or not is quite different! We have the obligation to take the necessary measures for our citizens. Everyone's tracking the media. I think there was a long discussion with the experts. This is, of course, about the quality of both the Constitution and the rule of law. That's pretty clear, as I mean. It must also be in our common interest. These threats are then reported very excitedly again and again. All possible meetings will be convened immediately, and we need to discuss everything. But, I mean, after discussing this with professionals, with experts, you have to come to an implementation in a reasonable time. Imagine the discussion if something happened. If we were really honest, ladies and gentlemen, then everyone would talk well again and think that we slept and it was not taken care of in time here. To sum up, this is a judicial package, it is about criminal provisions, because it cannot be said that this does not fit in. These are all topics that have been discussed for a long time. I believe that this will make an essential contribution both to the security of our citizens and to the rule of law. I invite you to give your consent to this package of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15595	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15616	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! The debate on this package shows that a work, a complex legislative work, which can still be called flickwork in the process of creation, with amendments and amendments to the amendments, sometimes also overshadows the House's colleagues. For when previous speakers such as Mr Ikrath and Mr Strutz are discussing the concentration of this economic corruption story here and who speak counter to one another, it was clear from both debates that she had already discussed the amendment, Mr Steinhauser's amendment here, but who came from the government groups and not from the Green Group, obviously slept or did not know. Yes, it was originally intended to concentrate on the Vienna Regional Court, but due to this amendment, it is probably true that the concentration is now only more related to the public prosecutor's office and all other proceedings, the negotiations are to take place very well at the national courts. That is why the discussion you have held here was outdated. I would like to say to Mr Pendl about the terrorist camps: Our criticism is not a matter of content, we conclude a discussion on the terrorist camps are not at all, but our criticism is that there are a number of sections here that deal with criminal organizations – the “animal protector” section 278a, § 278b – which are already in use, where there are massive criticisms also from expert series that the application is very questionable and abuse door and gate are open. We criticise the fact that the Minister of Justice just presented her terrorist prevention package a year ago, that there was massive resistance here, that she then retreated with her elan and now takes out a point and leaves it in the form of an amendment request and here leaves it to decide, while no discussion takes place on all the other points where urgent discussion would be needed with the experts involved. On the other hand, we remember, and this is our criticism that one does not assume the overall question here, that one does not take an overall discussion here, but takes one point out. And above all, we do not understand the SPÖ and you, Mr Jarolim, because you are in principle one who is on our wave on the subject of § 278a and has already made critical statements. Against this background, it is not understandable that you have come here for this flick work and have not also worked towards the fact that there is an overall discussion on this individual section. Against this background – Mr Steinhauser has already mentioned it – we will not accept this amendment at second reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15661	Mrs Mag. Hakl will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15683	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to make an amendment which has already been distributed, so I can explain it in the broad outlines. Rightly, in Vienna we are receiving a new central public prosecutor's unit to combat economic crime. However, the content of the amendment is that, nevertheless, major economic cases – Mr Lausch, you probably haven't read this yet, it has just been distributed – remain in the other courts. I may perhaps explain why this makes sense, although the prosecutor's office will remain centered in Vienna. We have seen in the large audit, which has actually led to savings in the area of the financial office, that medium and larger businesses in Austria are looking for tax advisors only in Vienna. I would have feared that, although all major economic crime cases are being dealt with only in Vienna, every medium-sized company, which, for example, has to be represented as a victim, is looking for lawyers even in Vienna for a big bankruptcy with fraudulent participation. I wonder where young academics can work somewhere else in Austria. For this reason, too, apart from the fact that, in my view, it does not seem reasonable for entrepreneurs, the accused, to automatically carry out any proceedings in Vienna, I think it is right and important that, in the future, only on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Court or the Court of Justice in Vienna, such a procedure can be centred in Vienna. But the fact that this flexibility is given is good and right. In this sense, I hope that the FPÖ will also agree to this amendment. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In short, to a second point. We decide today on the criminality of terrorist camps. They see me permanently shaken at the fact that, on the one hand, the Greens do not agree, but on the other hand, a committee has already been set up with a content that I really could not and cannot share. I've forgotten the paper on top of my table now and take the time to get it for a while. [[The speaker brought the paper.]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong speech!]] Terrorist camps make training punishable for terrorist purposes. That is to say, anyone who informs another person in the manufacture or use of explosives, firearms or other weapons, harmful or dangerous substances and so on, whether domestic or foreign, is to be punished. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I am shocked that there is no agreement on this isolated point in this House, that such a thing is absolutely condemnable and that such a thing – for whatever purpose – must not happen. And if this point were to be considered isolated anyway, I really would have expected your consent to a ban on these terrorist camps and to a criminality of these terrorist camps, which you are a party which is supposed to always stand for democracy and human rights. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: “Exactly ”?- Oh, my God!]] But I am also somewhat shocked by the SPÖ colleagues who have insisted on making a statement in the Committee that only under very narrow conditions should such a terrorist camp be punishable. [[Hö-Rufe at SPÖ]] Be it, I see the restricted application. But the last sentence of this committee statement was then proposed – and without this sentence the SPÖ would not have made the terrorist camps punishable –: ‘Even if all these conditions are fulfilled, a criminal offence shall not be considered terrorist and training for the execution of such catalogue crimes shall not be punishable in accordance with § 278th StGB if the committed crime is aimed at the production or restoration of democratic and rule-of-law conditions, the support of legally recognised protection objectives or the exercise or safeguarding of human rights.’ I am a member of the Council of Europe, and I can assure you all here: I'm deeply shaken. I didn't agree. In my view, those who actually agree to the non-violence of the enforcement of legitimate political interests must not make such restrictions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap and Mr Jarolim have told me on the margins of the Committee that this is intended to be a reservation in the underlying articles of the Convention from the Council of Europe. That's what I've picked out. There it says: “Each Party shall ensure” – and this is the only restriction within it – “that, in the creation, implementation and application of the criminality referred to in Articles 5 to 7 and 9, the obligations to respect human rights, in particular the right to freedom of expression of opinion, freedom of association and freedom of religion, as contained in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights and in other obligations under international law, are respected as far as they are applicable to the Party.” We could have written that in, no more and no less. That's right, too. For example, what is now in the Committee's statement means: South Tyrol has the right to self-determination. It is legitimate in its aim and confirmed by the rule of law and international law on many occasions. But if someone is setting up terrorist camps to perhaps commit a terrorist crime in order to enforce this right of self-determination, this cannot be our agreement if we seriously believe in democratic enforcement of political objectives. The same applies – and I believe this is the background of this paragraph – for example for Frente Polisario in Western Sahara. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why did the ÖVP agree?]] I don't know if anyone from the SPÖ or someone you know is working there or visiting terrorist camps. But I still guess why one has insisted on this turn from the SPÖ, why the Greens have agreed to this. I hope that such illegal views will not enter into our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15784	After you have sufficiently explained the amendment, Madam Member, I will now distribute it because it was not introduced until now, in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GoG, and he is in trial. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15876	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher with a desired speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15897	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! High house! Mrs Hakl, I think we are all permanently shaken because of your statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was important to us in the Committee to ensure that the objective initiated is achieved and that it is not beyond the objective. [[Abg. Scheibner: The purpose sanctifies the means!]] Justice is and has been faced with allegations, especially in commercial proceedings, such as sluggish proceedings, too few prosecutors, the lack of competence or the experience of prosecutors and prosecutors would be insufficient. There was repeated change, especially in economic criminal proceedings, where the new prosecutor/an attorney had to re-read, re-read, and, of course, this led to a long duration of the proceedings. It is important that now, by Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, but also at the pressure of the public, a judicial summit has also been initiated and the Minister of Justice has been called on to present this package of criminal jurisdiction. It is important that the people's confidence in justice is strengthened. Mr Grosz, even if you're talking all the time, first of all you say you're here, then you're gone again, now you're loud and audible again. What's the matter with you? [[Abg. Scheibner: How does this fit again? Who taught you that?]] It would be better if you were to consider your own situation. It is important that the Procuratorate has now bundled the competences, further that experts are taught. It is important that the public prosecutor can remain involved in proceedings and that, in particular, transparency is increased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Transparency was also required by the EGMR. This legal provision also applies to this claim. Overall, it is an important package, but it remains a flaw that we all need to discuss, which is the exemption of the prosecutor's office from the Ministry of Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15962	Mr Rädler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15984	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Austria is governed by women. I like that. [[Abg. Grosz: That's what it belongs to!]] - That's what it belongs to. ==References== September UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon stated that the establishment of an anti-corruption academy here in Austria is a global milestone in the fight against fraud and corruption. However, it is also a milestone of the blue-yellow policy, the blue-yellow success policy of the ÖVP Lower Austria. Many do not like to hear this now, because at the federal level the countries are very much drawn over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Mr. Wenninger, you are also involved, because it was Lies Prokop in 2006, who achieved the status of this institution in Lower Austria. This is the blue-yellow science area, the arch that moves from Tulln, Krems down to Laxenburg to Wiener Neustadt. [[Calls.]] The speaker, who will follow me, the former mayor of the city of Wiener Neustadt will support this path. Of course, there is also a little displeasure, because the SPÖ in Lower Austria is currently busy throwing out the last members. That is why it has not contributed to this field of science in Lower Austria. We know that. That's the Leitner course, you'd rather fight than work for the country. Mr. Wenninger, you need to know. Our industrial district was the SPÖ empire. There you were at home, at the steelworks, at Semperit, at the smoking castles. Where are you now? Thank God we have the blue-yellow policy of the ÖVP with the smoking heads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Mr Rosenkranz! You could also join them as Lower Austrians. I only refer to the research institute in Wiener Neustadt, the Technopol, where 600 researchers work, to meAustron, where you sit on the Supervisory Board, where the construction work will begin next year. This is blue-yellow science policy! - That's Vienna. [[Abg. Petzner: Skylink!]] You need to get out of there a little bit. I am pleased that this establishment in Laxenburg has found its place. And I am pleased that a Bachelor's, a Master's Programme will be offered from 2011 onwards and that there will be a broad network in the field of science, including with regard to the prevention of crime, especially corruption. Now I should like to ask Mr Wittmann to mention this path in Lower Austria in the same praise.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16055	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16076	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, on the comments made by my predecessor. Of course I support the establishment of this Academy. But this speech would have fit better into the Lower Austrian Landtag. You should think a little wider when you speak here in Parliament, and above all talk about the subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Scheibner, this is a bit unfair in the argument, because you know that this is not true. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes!]] - No, it's not true what you said. It is only the qualification as a terrorist meant by these paragraphs. That means that the basic act remains punishable, but it is not qualified as terrorist. This does not mean that anyone goes free when he commits a murder or a plot or a conspiracy to it, but the basic act remains punishable at the same height, but it is not qualified as terrorist. [[Abg. Scheibner: But the training!]] The problem is that in Vienna Neustadt the child is thrown out with the bath. If you have no longer done so as a result of the terrorist paragraph, if you have been persecuted as a result of the terrorist paragraph because it is an association, namely the union of the animal protectionists, you can also make any dog breeding club a terrorist camp. And we don't want to. That's also beyond the goal. This is to be read in this Committee statement, no more and no less. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It remains the basic stock, it is also punished at the same level as it can be punished here, it is only not qualified as terrorist. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not at all!]] And you know that, in your argument, you leave that away. This is actually an unfair argument, because there would be no justification for it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course! The training!]] But basically, we agree that terror camps and training are punishable to terror, and that is being created by that, which is reasonable. We are also fulfilling an agreement of the Council of Europe. Finally, the fight against corruption and economic crime is summarized in a specialised prosecutor's office, which will also have the necessary resources to carry out such extensive procedures and conduct preliminary surveys. That's necessary. We have heard it, on the one hand, specialists who are constantly dealing with such economic processes, on the other hand, but on the other hand, they are not adequately trained prosecutors. This is now being improved so that the persecution of economic crime is better ensured. That is, I think, a reasonable approach in this package. I believe that the new system on the level of the levy will also improve the fight against economic crime and, in the end, it will also be improved. This has been limited to six years – and I think it is reasonable – in order to be able to carry out an evaluation and transfer it into the permanent legal system. We shall vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16167	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16189	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The innovations in the "Structural Competence Package" are also linked to very important tasks and measures for executives. The highly debated theme of the terrorist camps is that prevention and information work can also be stepped up more intensively. Another essential area, I find, but also the possibility of attracting criminal economic assets in the future, because I assume that more successful work can be done in the Special Prevention. The third aspect is the Leniency Regulation. This is an aspect which, in the context of ever more complex criminal developments and the associated difficult conditions, will help both justice and security authorities to achieve sustainable success. However, I also think it is positive and very good that we have the whole time limit and will be subject to an evaluation after six years, because we will then be able to see where there is a need for improvement. It is also my concern to address those requests which Mr Herbert and Mr Lausch have made and which have been rejected in the Committee. I am of the opinion that, and in these requests, the spirit of the year 1848 has been addressed, we are in danger of introducing elements of a police state being, because it is not only about protecting the police, Mr Herbert, but we know very well that such a decision cannot prevent an escalating conflict in any way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Herbert]] I have already said in committee: Deescalation and reasonable preparations are for me the measure of all things and serve them as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that there is enough action. You know this very well: There is the crime of body injury, that of qualified body injury, there is the crime “activist attack”, there is the crime “resistance against officials” and much more. That is to say, to put another sign here and to be extremely ponalized now if developments occur within a meeting would mean that we are going here on very dangerous terrain as far as our freedom of assembly is concerned. I say that again because you have also adjourned this. The same applies to qualified defamation status, also against officials. There too it must be possible in a democratic, mature legal system be that citizens turn to us – whether right or wrong. We also have opportunities there. There's the defamation stat, he doesn't have to be invented in addition, otherwise we have the same thing everywhere. You know it very well: In the road traffic regulations, we also have this for the police. The situation is simply so stored – and this should be accepted – that criminal law gives enough scope for action here. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16252	Mr Sacher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16273	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As the last speaker, as far as I know, I should like to say once again to the Social Democrats that, with the “Strasbourgal Competence Package” discussed today, there are several essential points to which, as I can say, the Federal Minister, the citizens are already waiting. In my opinion, this package will also help to improve the confidence of the population in Austrian justice, which some people outside have recently appeared. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, this package will strengthen the people's sense of effective action against abuses and crime in Austria. In addition to the key points discussed today, the multi-critical provision for the prevention of terrorism has to be mentioned, which the Committee on Justice has already dealt with in detail. An amendment introduced the provision for training for terrorist purposes under the Terror Prevention Act. This action is important to us in the sense of the international fight against terrorism and is also required for us through international regulations that are committed to Austria. In connection with § 278 in its Committee Report, the Justice Committee decided to insert the amendment into the Government template. This initiative goes back to our Judge Jarolim. I would like to say once again to Mr Scheibner and Mrs Hakl and others: From our point of view, this is a clear improvement of the original ministerial draft, which is because it ensures that, in the case of necessary terrorist provisions, there can be no over-interpretation and an over-interpretation, possibly undemocratic interpretation, Mrs Mag. Hakl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] As one who feels committed to human rights, I say that not under the title of the fight against terrorism can be shot over the target and the fundamental rights of citizens can be affected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why we're doing it, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, that the purpose of the legislator is not misused, that the use does not go against democratic and rule-of-law interests and that the commitment to the exercise and protection of human rights is not put at the same level as criminal terror and terrorist training. [[New call of the abg. May. Hakl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need the calls from the right, the Federal Government will continue its work in this sector so successfully, That is why we do not need the proposal of Mr Westenthaler either. The Austrian population can continue to feel secure, even if you are still unsure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16350	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft federal law, which amends the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Order 1975, the Public Prosecutor's Act and the Law on Criminal Organisation for the Strengthening of Criminal Jurisdiction, into 1009 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Supplementary request from the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment or amendment tabled by Dr Jarolim, Mag. Donnerbauer, Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Steinhauser before. I am going to vote, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to or the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall therefore first proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, who refer to the insertion of a new point 10 in Article 1 and the resulting amendment to the numbering. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 (10) of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary motion tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, who refer to the insertion of a new point 7a in Article 2 and the resulting amendment to the numbering. I would ask those Members of the House who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Mag. Stadler, ladies and gentlemen, who has the following amendments on the content: Article 2(7), point 11, point 12, point 32 and point 32a and Article 4(1). Whoever joins these amendments, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Donnerbauer, Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Stadler, colleagues and colleagues on the evaluation of the criminal competence package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 136.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, Mag. Stadler, colleagues in the fight against social fraud and criminal competence package. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 137.) We shall also vote on Agenda item 12. First of all, I would like to mention the request made by the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Conventions establishing the International Anti-Corruption Academy as an international organisation to grant approval in 924 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Furthermore, we come to the vote on the request to announce the Arabic, Chinese, Spanish and Russian language version of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1011 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on Agenda item 14: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1012 of the supplements. If you agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1013 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign on this matter. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1014 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1015 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 1016 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:55:41]] 19. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (881 D.B._Other Organiser Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse (1017, e.g.) 20. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (877, e.g._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria on the adoption of the accession of the Republic of Mauritius to the Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (1018 d.a.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16578	We now come to points 19 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16608	Madam President. Minister! Both the criminal-law package and the three issues now to be discussed on the protection of children from sexual exploitation and abuse have been discussed at the last judicial committee meeting. - Okay, good. However – and this is like a red thread – is to be noted: The Committee on Justice discussed the criminal competence package for about two hours, the three agenda items that are now under discussion to protect our children – and most of them here in Parliament call themselves lobbyists of children – but not even five minutes. Soaked, awakened, rejected: That's what reality looks like! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, I still remember very well your speech in which you said you were protecting the children, you want to do everything possible in the legal field to protect children from sexual assaults. At that time, I was very excited about you – and this is really a lot of experience with my experience with justice – but unfortunately you did not do it quite as we have in the FPÖ. Now at TOP 19: Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. This is certainly the first and only international legal instrument to treat the various forms of sexual exploitation as a criminal offence. This includes child trafficking and child pornography. It also creates a link between donors and denominators, or between demand and supply, and international penalties are imposed on both the holder and the dealer as well as the freer with very high penalties. There are also new forms of punishment, and there is the “corrupting” – that is, the need for a child to consider pornographic representations – and the “grooming” – which is the recruitment of a child on the Internet for sexual purposes. Minister! In this context, we in the FPÖ have been thinking about the possibility of strengthening these criminal offences, and I would like to make a motion for a resolution by Members Winter, Gartelgruber and other Members. In short, the content of this request: After the online pedophile market is booming in Europe, and the trade with the exchange and trade of pedophile material has increased by almost 150 percent within five years, and it is known that it is very young people, 42 percent of those who are children under the age of seven, and 77 percent of those who are children under the age of nine, would have to shake everyone in the room. You probably know this anyway, but you do not seem to be interested, because why is nothing done about it? We have been looking for a way to block or exclude pedophilia and child pornography on the Internet, and we have come to the view that web filtering might be a good way to do this. In this context, the Members present the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Point two of the En-bloc discussion is based on the content of the Hague conference on private international law and is expressly for the protection of children, namely child abduction, foreign transfer and retention abroad. We can also give our absolute consent to this. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now on TOP 21, on the request of Mr Bucher and colleagues from the BZÖ: All in this room, who are lawyers, will probably throw my head at me immediately, that there is the Second Violence Act and that the limitation periods have been raised in this force protection package, starting from the 28th century. Year and the following. In addition, the penalties have also been intensified. However, both intensification and the extension of the limitation period do not necessarily stop the perpetrator from doing so. We therefore believe that this request should be accepted, because the perpetrator can only be held back by his action if he displays an actual awareness of injustice. Finally, a brief quote from Klaus Kinkel, FDP politician and Justice Minister in 1992. We look at Germany again and again, and I think we should write this on the flags. Kinkel said: Children are not goods, but the highest good of a civilized world! – I would like to add: Physical wounds are healing, but souls are bleeding for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16709	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16767	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16788	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Not often enough one can demand the protection of children from sexual abuse. Every day we hear of atrocities committed to children. We all know that the perpetrators are not to be attributed to a particular class of society. No, no, no, There are those in all layers of society. In doing so, sexual abuse of children is always a gross violation of the child soul. Premature sexual experiences disturb the self-determination of every person, and the consequences are serious and sustainable. The Convention of the Member States of the Council of Europe, which we decide today, provides for very clear directives on the protection of children, both at national and international level. It includes further provisions on prevention and also tougher penalties for perpetrators. In the meantime, it is simply frightening how the use of modern technologies has increased the extent of exploitation and sexual abuse of children. Our time is characterized by new technologies, and this development does not stop even before minors. If one could protect his children earlier by observing and controlling their surroundings, this has become much more difficult today. The danger is often already in the children's room. You think your children are safe, but the opposite is the case. Unfortunately, there are sexually provocative people who want the curiosity of innocent children. We have heard today that the so-called grooming is the contact of adults with children who aim at the sexual exploitation of these children. This grooming is now being classified for the first time as a criminal offence in an international contract. Each year, the Ministry of the Interior issues a statistics on sexual violence to children. Last year, 512 children were affected throughout Austria. Of course, the number of the dark is much higher. Until ten years ago, sexual abuse was a taboo at all. Thank God we continue today, and the silence surrounding sexual abuse has been broken. Abuse of children is definitely to be prevented. With this agreement, we are getting a little closer to the fight against sexual violence, because international cooperation facilitates the extradition of perpetrators and legal aid procedures. We must not tire out fighting against sexual exploitation of children.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16834	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16855	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The background is that the child's interest in protection must be above all else, and that it should not be possible for individuals, even relatives, to enter into a relationship, but must be obliged, if they are aware of child abuse, to show themselves in fact, and if they do not do so, to make themselves punishable. This also applies to caregivers in childcare facilities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We shall vote in favour of this agreement. However, I would like to say critically – but not you, Mrs Bundesminister – that it took a very long time for this agreement to finally reach the National Council. Three years have passed since the submission. In October 2007, the Convention was signed in Lanzarote, and only now do we deal with the ratification of this Convention. I hope it doesn't take so long for legal implementation, Mrs. Federal Minister! I put this hope in you, because I believe that this regulatory matter is so urgent that one should not wait for it to continue, but act quickly with appropriate legal implementation measures. It requires simple legal implementation, and therefore the National Council should be provided with appropriate legislative proposals. But now another comment on the previous debate. Mr President, I assume you will allow me to do so. Mr Sacher, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: There is no good and no bad terrorism. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Please? – There is no “good” and “bad” terrorism, even if it refers to South Tyrol. There's only bad terrorism that's calling for victims. Whatever you want to interpret: In some cases, what has been said here is the thought of the Red Army Group, which also had the Brigate Rosse in Italy and which also had the Action Director in France. Terrorism, whatever its form, is basically opposed by a developed rule of law, as Austria is now! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to my concern in the ongoing debate to you, Mrs Federal Minister: Everything related to the fight against child abuse, and all that Mr Franz has perfectly presented will only have his inventory test if one can see how it is in practice. And when we talk about practice, Mrs. Federal Minister, I come to my specific concern: On the basis of the Kampusch case, you can show that this is really a serious concern to you. I am looking for you to make the investigations run not only at the Public Prosecutor's Office Innsbruck, but also to ensure that the Chief Prosecutor's Office is Innsbruck's leading investigative authority. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I have considerable concerns as to whether the public prosecutorship Innsbruck has sufficient coverage of the political implications that are becoming increasingly apparent. In the meantime, there is clearly a suspicion that, behind this case, Kampusch has been a long-acting, politically potent child-skinning ring with the best relations with political parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't weigh your head. I have already informed some of your colleagues about this. There are massive suspicions that a child-skinning ring has been providing the background for this case for years now, and it is not necessary because of Miss Kampusch that this case is clarified, but it is necessary because there may have been more victims in the past, and it is necessary because there may be further victims in the future. That's why this child-skin ring, if it's still so powerful and so well-connected, is to lay the craft! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the basis of this spectacular case, ladies and gentlemen, the practice will only show how serious it is for the Republic of Austria to implement what we decide with this Convention today. No agreement and no law is able to protect children. Only the practice, the determined action of the judicial bodies – and ultimately the Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Federal Minister – as well as the determined action of the police and the investigative bodies will show that children’s shame in this country really want to be crafted.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16955	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17013	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17034	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse is a comprehensive agreement. At European level, there is already a framework decision, and at EU level, a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating sexual abuse and the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is currently under discussion. Allow me to focus briefly on a report from the EU Commission on the dimension of child abuse, sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. According to the EU Commission, 1.2 million children and young people worldwide are victims of traffickers. Most of them are exploited in prostitution – 43 percent – or as workers and forced workers – which is about 32 percent. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely because of these figures that it is necessary for the States to act together at international level against such crime – that is very often organised crime. It must also be said that the new information and communication technologies have brought not only many positive achievements but also new problems. Thus, the Internet is used for the dissemination and exercise of criminal offences, both on the Internet and with the help of the Internet. High house! This applies, among other things, to child pornography on the Internet. It is precisely for this reason that it is necessary to do so at international level. But we have a problem: The problem is that child pornography content will not be deleted in certain countries even if it is displayed by private reporting agencies or the police accordingly. More than 60 percent and almost 70 percent of servers with child pornography content are in the USA, around 20 percent in Russia. And right there we have the problem that these pages, although being shown, will not be deleted. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We need international regulations to do this. There will now be this European directive, which, among other things, also provides for the criminal offence "Grooming". I therefore believe that the FPÖ's motion for a resolution is a good one, but I believe that, at European level, common rules must be drawn up which lead to a successful fight against child pornography on the Internet and against sexual abuse of children. In this sense, I should like to ask you all to support this path at European level and to agree to this agreement today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17085	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17107	Ladies and gentlemen! This Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse is important and correct. This Convention lays down numerous material criminal offences which are already punishable in Austria, such as sexual abuse, child prostitution, child pornography. A criminal record, namely the start of contact with children, would be added. We can always discuss higher penalties here, but we need to know that higher penalties alone do not prevent an act. Rather, it is crucial whether we are successful in law enforcement and whether the perpetrators have to expect to be transferred, i.e. whether it is possible to find and condemn child abusers or consumers of child pornography. I once looked at what Austria was doing in the fight against child pornography, and that was, I said, terrifying! I looked at the development. There has been the notification service for child pornography on the Internet since 1998. At that time, 389 notifications were received. In 2008, there were already 5,238 reports, so there was a threeteenfold. In 1998 there were 57 ads, in 2008 there were already 862, i.e. a five-fold increase. Now it's coming! I also looked at how many planning sites there are in this area. In 1998 there were four, and in 2008 there were also four, although the reports increased threeteen times and the ads were fifteen times! Even better or – as one has to say – even more frightening were the figures of the investigating officials in this context. At the Vienna State Criminal Office, to which most of the crimes are likely to be associated, it was eight in 1998, and in 2004 this figure was reduced from eight to six. It's embarrassing! I have also been interested in the extent to which one tries to find perpetrator strategies in order to be able to react adequately. I asked the Minister of the Interior, not the Minister of Justice, whether these websites, on which there were ads, were publicly available or whether they were somehow encrypted. - You don't know that. I also asked how many were on servers in Austria. - You don't know that. Further questions were as follows: How many websites were available on EU servers? - You don't know that. How many child pornography pages have there been in OECD countries? - You don't know that. In summary, you can say: You don't know anything! One has not been concerned with the perpetrator strategies, and one is under-occupied. The right thing is: The problem can only be solved internationally. However, the United States is, for example, a persistent refusal to cooperate. So my last question to the Minister for the Interior was: What have you done internationally to forge alliances in the fight against child pornography? – Answer: Missal. Thus, one can demand higher penalties or think about new criminal offences, but all of this does not do anything if one is sloppy or not persecuting existing criminal offences. Today there is also a resolution tabled by the FPÖ on blocking or erasure of websites with child pornography content. I am now saying “lock or delete”, because this is not so clear from the content. In the explanatory statement, we are talking about blocking or filtering, but in the application text itself, we are talking about deleting. But these are two completely different things! Blocking means that the page is technically imposed, but remains online, so the average experienced child pornography internet user can continue to surf the page via a number address. Nothing's won with that! On the other hand, when deleting, it would be guaranteed that the child pornography content goes off the net. My access to this is relatively clear: Delete instead of blocking. The FPÖ has obviously not yet completely decided, or has not yet clarified the concept. I therefore cannot accept this request. [[Abg. May. Karin Hakl: The servers stand abroad!]] The servers are located abroad. That is why it would be necessary for the Minister of the Interior to do something and enter into a dialogue with the Americans! If she doesn't do anything, then it won't change! That is the crucial point! Of course, the servers stand abroad. But as long as your Minister of the Interior is brief, nothing will happen in this area. We will only proceed with deletion, with hangings you will not be able to hold an average consumer of child pornography. So point out to your Minister of the Interior that she should finally do something instead of making Sunday speeches! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17153	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17175	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it's true to: The fight against child abuse and child pornography has the highest priority in me, and I have demonstrated this, for example with the Second Violence Package. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember: Time limits have been extended, penalties have been intensified and a new crime has been introduced in particular: the scientific consideration of child pornography. We are still a pioneer in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there is still a lot of things done, not a question, and there is also a lot of things going on. It is true that the issue of child pornography – the new directive – will be discussed this week in the European Council on Friday, and I will not be tired of discussing this issue in numerous individual discussions with Justice Ministers. One particular concern is that one can delete and block child pornography, pages on the Internet. Both are right! For this I will be vehement, even if the Internet lobby is yelling and talking about censorship. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Dr. Winter]] But there are no bans on thinking in this area, and using the words “liberation” and “child abuse” in a sentence, which is really unbearable for me. [[In the case of ÖVP and BZÖ, representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Dr. Winter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will continue to prove it, and I promise you: I am very much in favour of a massive fight against child abuse and child pornography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17226	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17247	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your current statements and for what you are now planning and implementing. I am convinced that you will take all your power and we will be able to take another important step again. To protect children, that is our highest principle, in which we all agree, and all the speakers have expressed it clearly. We were all in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I would just like to make one point that is very important to me personally: strengthening the rights of children and perceiving their needs. The well-being of the child is a central task for us, the central concern, and I would like to appeal again that the rights of the children are now finally enshrined in the federal constitution. We have reached an agreement with the coalition partner, an agreement which should finally be approved by the opposition. If you could get through with this, I think we would have taken an important, long-standing step. I would like this constitutional anchorage agreement to go over the stage before the end of the year. I ask you, in view of all that we say again and again – and hopefully not only Sunday's speeches – in the interests of the child's well-being, An anchoring of children's rights in the federal constitution when this proposal enters into the Constitutional Committee is acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17287	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17308	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the BZÖ proposal concerning the abolition of the limitation periods of sexual assaults in minors. There is certainly the balance between the needs of the victims, the preventive effect of limitation and practical issues relating to law enforcement. [[Call for the call.]] From a material criminal point of view, a limitation is also appropriate because, during the long period between a deed and the penalty, the required effect is often no longer present, just as the preventive aspects to avoid future crimes or violations are no longer given in this form. Processual aspects also speak of this. Many experts are also of the opinion – and this is also understandable for everyone – that the longer a crime is committed, the more difficult the reconstruction is. As a rule, there are great difficulties in proof here, and the danger of misconceptions exists. Therefore, the regulation in the Austrian Criminal Code, according to which limitation periods have been completed according to the severity of the offence, is also very useful. Crimes with long or lifelong imprisonment, such as murder, cannot be delayed at all. In the case of sex criminal law – as Mrs Minister has already mentioned – a very restrictive legislation has taken place over the past 15 years. The first major improvement was introduced in 1998, and due to this, the period from the crime to reaching the maturity of the minor victim has not been included in the limitation period. The second step followed with the 2009 Second Violence Package, where the limitation period was extended, up to 28. Year of life. I think another point, why a complete abolition is not acceptable, is the fact that even from the point of view of the victims in the processing process, a time frame for random ads can be very important in order to be able to complete the act and thus not again a traumatisation of the victims. One argument still – because that is also mentioned in the request –: that not always equal is assessed. For example, one argument would be: If a victim is 17 years old and 11 months old, it could follow for life. If the victim is 18 years old, it could not be like that anymore. So there would be no proper differentiation here either. We cannot therefore join in a complete abolition for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17366	There is no further statement of words to this effect. We therefore come to the votes. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Children from Sexuel the exploitation and sexual abuse, in 881 of the supplements referred to in Article 50 (1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – That is unanimously decided. Request by the Justice Committee, according to which the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty. 2 Z 3 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – That is just as unanimously decided. vote on the request, the French language version of the State Treaty in accordance with Article 49(l) of the Treaty. 2 B-VG by making it available for public consultation at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. If you're for that, I'll ask you for your sign. – That is unanimously decided. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Winter, ladies and gentlemen, on the deletion of child pornography on the Internet pages. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. - He doesn't find a majority. Rejected. Vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Declaration by the Republic Austria on the adoption of the accession of the Republic of Mauritius to the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, in 877 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. If you agree, I ask for your sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on the request of the Committee of Justice to take note of its report 1019 of the supplements. If you're for that, I'll ask for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on compulsory and unlimited reporting obligations in the event of suspicion of the abuse of minors. If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:30:01]] 22. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (994 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010 and the Energy Control Act (997 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (928 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and operation of the natural gas pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Austria (998 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17498	We come to points 22 and 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17525	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On agenda item 22, ElWOG: In all the criticism that has to be made in part, we have the advantages for the consumer. But that is what my colleague, Mr Ing, is going to do. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. To TOP 23, to build this natural gas pipeline: We reject these, with the same argument that we have already rejected the construction of “Nabucco”. Again and again with the justification of becoming more independent from certain countries and building additional gas and oil pipelines to Austria, we believe that energy policy is the completely wrong way. Your argument is also wrong: This makes you also dependent on other countries. Austria is always dependent on countries that deliver, deliver or where we deliver through our country. Therefore, once again: This is the completely wrong way, from our point of view, energy policy. We should finally take more money into our hands, do more to ensure that our country becomes energy self-sufficient – and that is to invest in renewable energy in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have already asked you two, three years ago to finally also put the eco electricity law on a completely new basis. I can only ask you to do something about this – and to amend the eco electricity law really forward-looking. On the topic of renewable energy forms in Austria, more work needs to be done to make us more independent from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17571	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17593	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with the 3rd in this government template. Energy Internal Market Package. The following effects will have this ElWOG novelle: First of all, it will strengthen consumer rights, and much more in terms of enhanced consumer rights will be implemented. A tariff calculator with maximum price schemes for additional charges will be used. I believe that changing the delivery deadline for customers represents a major improvement in consumer rights. This period is reduced from eight to three weeks. Secondly, effective unbundling of transmission system operators is being promoted. Thus, electricity producers and suppliers will be able to use networks without any discrimination. This will create considerably more competition in the field of electricity generation, ladies and gentlemen. Thirdly, the regulatory authority will be re-regulated, and it can be assumed that this activity in Austria will continue to be carried out independently and transparently. To this end, this novel provides that the e-control from the organisational form of a GesmbH in which a public law institution is to be amended, similar to financial market supervision, which is intended to enable e-control to exercise its regulatory activity even more independently. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, this innovation will certainly help to increase transparency, consumer protection and more competition in the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17635	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17656	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will not be able to agree with the two proposals that will then be put to the vote in this form. I am now starting with the agreement with Russia on the "South-Stream" gas pipeline. This agreement contradicts the objective of Austria to become as self-sufficient as possible, so that it can supply itself with energy in its own country. Similarly, this agreement contradicts the objectives of climate protection – and it does not contribute to the creation of jobs in Austria. These are all things that everyone needs to see. We of the Greens want an environmentally friendly, sustainable and safe energy supply for Austria, and we believe that gas pipelines can only be a transitional solution and that it makes no sense to put 20 billion euros into the construction of gas pipelines. It is also not understandable if the presentation on the issue of environmental impact, in particular climate sustainability – what do you think, ladies and gentlemen? –: ‘The regulatory project is not climate relevant.’ Ladies and gentlemen, this has a certain amusing aspect – and you know that too. It would really be time to point out clearly the issue of climate compatibility. Another point is as regards Articles 7 and 8 of this Agreement, the comments contained in the text. Article 7 states: ‘The Republic of Austria will fulfil the most favourable customs and tax conditions for the South Stream project in accordance with applicable law.’ And there is already the question, especially in times of savings packages, why is that necessary; we have already heard what cuts there should be where today. But foreign corporations want you to meet the best conditions from the government parties. The same is true in the explanatory notes to Article 8. This is quite a joke if you think that according to your draft budget for development cooperation, a quarter of their budgets will be deleted! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the ElWOG: Well, a much debated story, and I do not hide that there are also advantages in this bill. This also concerns consumers. Examples: Transparency in the invoices, which are so much complained and lamented, is getting better. Consumers' rights in a change of supplier will be strengthened – and a legal framework for smart metering will be introduced. Despite concerns about data protection, I believe that smart metering is an innovation, a technology that is forward-looking, not only in terms of consumer protection, but also in terms of climate protection. In this respect, there are also positive rules, but these are also disadvantages. They know that there are great complaints from the domestic eco electricity providers that they feel disadvantaged by this bill that they are afraid that this will hinder domestic eco-electric development. And that's something we don't want in this form of course. With regard to this new authority, a lot has already been said today where there are advantages, but of course this also has disadvantages. We believe that the legal responsibilities and competences of this new government are still not really clarified – and above all there is no second instance in the legal process and can thus be affected by legal certainty. As far as the controllability of this supreme authority is concerned, it is only very, very vaguely formulated; in principle, this is not really clear. Given the fact that this authority will grant a budget of €14 million, it must be said that this is clearly part of the competence of the budget right and thus in the competence of Parliament. But that has not been done either. Therefore: For the reasons I have given, we will not agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17764	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17785	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We're setting the 3rd with this law today. The European Union's internal energy market package. It has already been pointed out that there are many changes and, as I believe, improvements in the energy sector. However, in such complex legislative works, the following must be said: There is always a very large and broad group of very different interests to be taken into account in such a legislative act. There are many advices, many recommendations, also a lot of criticism, and it is always a great challenge to put everything under one hat. I think that this has largely been achieved and we have today a viable compromise; a compromise that at the end of this process ensures that we are better placed in terms of security of supply, pricing and sustainability than before. What exactly does this package of laws bring? – On the one hand, the basis for fair competition in the energy market, a competition that also benefits customers. We have tried to implement this directive of the European Union in the same way as it is correct and important for energy players, i.e. consumers and producers. But when we talk about competition, I would also like to point out very clearly that we have had to look at other materials in recent times, which can create liberalised markets without control. We do not want this kind of competition in such a central field of general interest as the energy sector and the supply of electricity. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where the market is at its borders, regulatory action must be taken accordingly. Neither consumers nor producers are to be congratulated, but the aim is to ensure a good condition for security of supply and sustainable energy. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, we have ensured the rights of consumers, the right to basic energy supply, to transparent pricing, but also arrangements for those affected by the switch-off due to their personal economic situation. I am honest to say that I personally, as I said in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, wanted even more measures to combat energy poverty, but I also see that this is very difficult because of the precarious situation we have in the budget as a whole. On the other hand, we have tried to shape the framework conditions in such a way as to increase security of supply and to ensure the quality of supply in the future. My previous speaker was already on the definition of Smart Metering, i.e. an implementation of this 3. Internal market packages. I do not need to explain again what it is all about, but I would just like to say – because there are many concerns of the data protectors in this context – that we must do everything we can to ensure that, when smart metering is implemented, the criteria of data protection are also met. Finally, the aim is to create a broader consumer rights at E-Control Austria and also to adapt the framework conditions in E-Control to the new circumstances and challenges arising from the European Union's requirements. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we have not dealt with the issue with these decisions today, have not ended, there are other issues that need to be dealt with in the near future, namely energy efficiency, green electricity and, ultimately, from 3rd reading. Also package the Gas Economics Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17846	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17868	Mr President. High house! The ElWOG has been following us for almost a year and a half, including the previous law, which was in the process of consulting, the competitive acceleration law that we did not achieve – to the detriment of consumers, to the detriment of many entrepreneurs. We have always tried to make concrete proposals on the part of the BZÖ; Keywords: Provider change in three weeks, transparent electricity bills. That's why this law has some light for us, but a lot of shade. We will therefore agree in a separate vote to the paragraphs which include this, but there are also very many criticisms. One of the main criticisms was that the legislative matter of around 200 pages only went to the Member of Parliament two days before the Committee's deliberations. These are things that are unbearable that have nothing to do with serious politics. And behind the scenes there is also an internal dispute in the ÖVP, I hear, but also in the coalition, whether the law, as it is now present, should really be enforced as a Husch-Puff law. - I'm very excited about that. I would like to address some criticisms very specifically, Mr Minister, who is particularly disturbing to us. I am thinking, for example, of the detachment of pump storage power plants, which also pay user and network losses. It is not about the numbers, it is about the height: three times as much as in the Federal Republic of Germany. And the pump storage power plants are also part of a functioning renewable energy system that is needed. A second point was the price cover, which was still in the law until recently, with regard to the procurement of secondary energy. In addition, I am now listening to a motion for a change, which is still to be improved. This is to be assessed positively. One of the main criticisms, however, is the politicization of the e-control. The e-control, I say quite freely here, under Walter Boltz was an institution that has made sure that hundreds of millions of electricity costs have been returned to customers. I almost suspect that Walter Boltz was too successful and bring you a quote from Minister Mitterlehner from the “Economic Sheet” of 23. ==References== Minister Mitterlehner is asked why Boltz should go, and says: “But his accusation to the suppliers that they had charged the consumer 77 million euros in the eco electricity sector has not been confirmed by the competition authority.” Mr. Minister, you're completely wrong. In fact, in its report in April 2010, the Competition Authority stated: ‘It should be noted that the ETUC has in the past shown more expenditure on green electricity than had been incurred by the allocation of green electricity.’ In clear text: Some 30 million to 35 million were charged too much. - You've been fighting this. That is, Boltz needs a political caretaker, the objective two-eye principle is being broken through – he was also occupied by Bartenstein, so he is actually a federal representative, an ÖVP representative, now we need a country representative, a red representative. We need the four-eye principle: two red eyes, two black eyes. That seems to be the goal, so that nothing happens. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: At least five greens!]] In the conversation for this is – is not unknown – Andreas Eigenbauer, who is assigned to the red half of the empire – he is the energy officer of the city of Vienna – and then the whole thing is rounded off again. This is a double proportion to be used here – for an authority! For an authority such as a mayor or a district captain. I therefore wonder whether we will also have two mayors in the future, two district heads per district et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] These are things that are not acceptable, as are the lack of the cool-down phase for occupations on the board of directors or also in the regulatory commission: You can switch in immediately from the EVU, which is actually not usual internationally. Or the Regulatory Commission: There are five instead of three members, and there should be already, although nothing is legally anchored, but there are political promises that country representatives will also come there. The Regulatory Advisory Board, which advises the Executive Board, is at all social partnership and also equipped with country representatives. And the Management Board has to justify it if it does not implement a recommendation from the Regulatory Advisory Board. – You have to imagine that! In other words, in the future, countries will advise the Executive Board on what it has to do or has not to do. That is to say, in the clear text, to make the bock a gardener, because e-control should actually take care of the countries in order to make the electricity tariffs cheap, and what do you do? – They put in national representatives. After what advice will the e-control give? Then things may happen, too, that in the future one will also find costs of former magistrates in Vienna, pensions, or sponsoring of football clubs in the electricity bills, although that certainly does not belong. Another point is the right of appeal of the Economic and Social Committee, Federal Chamber. We believe that an opinion option would have been sufficient in the context of the regulatory procedure in the case of costs. One question that has also been raised is smart metering. Cost-benefit effects are completely open. Who's the cost? In this respect, the Chamber of Labour is also very strongly criticised. In the final effect it will pay the customer, and, and, and. You can continue this list. In total, a law with little light, a law that only implements minimum standards of the EU, but ensures the domestic power of the EPUs, the countries, the red and black princes. This is almost the same as with the teachers: Pröll in Lower Austria creates, and Mr Mitterlehner does it at the federal level. A law that enshrines the propor, a law that creates bureaucracy, a law – that is, experts – that will probably make many things more expensive, and a law that will hardly bring benefits, but costs to consumers. I wonder why the FPÖ will agree here. I'm looking forward to the argument, because I think the law is just against it. The gas pipelines were addressed. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the EU Commission, gas consumption in the EU is expected to decrease by 13 percent by 2030. I wonder why we are building gas transit lines through Austria. This agreement also includes a gas supply contract of around 2 billion cubic metres per year for Austria. – Now we build “Nabucco”, then we build “South-Stream”, where this pipeline is part of “South-Stream”. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we sit on the gas – and no one will need it anymore if we really drive renewable energy forward. Therefore: In the end, this agreement is also to be rejected. Minister for Economic Affairs, I am now speaking to you as Minister of Energy: ==References== November 2010 held an event in Hofburg: The "Pact for Energy Efficiency" was called the "Pact for Energy Efficiency". Do you know who you invited, Minister Mitterlehner? – You have invited Stephan Kohler, the Managing Director of the dena, the German Energy Agency. But do you know, Minister, what Stephan Kohler said according to the German edition of the Financial Times? I'll read this to you: As a result of the photovoltaics, a huge problem arises in the networks, says Kohler, which has been hardly observed so far – and this may perhaps be justified in approaches, I say now. And now it comes: “The expansion of photovoltaics must therefore be drastically reduced,” said Kohler. And this is your “expert” for energy efficiency, which is your “expert” for renewable energy forms in Austria. – I can only say: You can give up on such experts! I don't want to remember Joschka Fischer right now, who's sitting as a gas lobbyist somewhere in Germany. A former Federal Chancellor of ÖVP advises the nuclear lobby in Germany. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the FPÖ is totally unsuspectingly in agreement with an ElWOG, which is burdening consumers under the line and with which the proportion is even expanded! There's really more to say: Good night, sustainable and cost-effective energy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17921	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17943	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Widmann, yes, we are happy to agree to this bill because it brings a wealth of detailed arrangements which, in sum, represent considerable benefits for consumers. It is very positive, for example, that in the future a change of providers can take place much faster; this must be done in three rather than eight weeks. Similarly, a change of providers will be much cheaper: 30 € instead of so far 70 €. We hope that the brake threshold to change the provider will be significantly reduced. From my point of view, there should also be a certain guarantee for the price offered by the new provider, because one often hears complaints about the increase immediately after the change of price. But you probably have to leave that to the market. Just as this facilitated change of suppliers will bring more competition, as we hope, will hopefully also help the unbundling, on the one hand, of energy generation through on-the-spot supply and through the supply of infrastructure, to ensure that more competition actually takes place. It is true what has been said, namely, that different national societies are only engaged in such a decommissioning with reluctance, and I believe that this is certainly one of the main obstacles to competition – it is missing. It is also important for consumers that there is transparency in electricity prices, that comparability is possible, that electricity bills in particular will be easier to read and that charges and additional charges can be compared more easily. The future regulation regarding Smart Metering was also addressed. This is certainly a regulation that can and will bring financial savings, which will also bring energy savings and will ultimately also be a contribution to climate protection, with fewer data protection concerns being a problem from my point of view, but I see a problem in that one does not really know whether the effort for what might be possible will be worthwhile. I think it needs a good piece of practical experience. Finally, I would just like to point out that it is important for all of us to pursue the development of eco electricity, because I do not think that there is a real alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17980	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18004	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Glaser has finally addressed the smart metering. – I think it will pay off because the challenges we will have to master in the next few years make smart metering necessary. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that more and more people will change to electromobility in the next few years, and if you're going to use Smart Grids, if you're tracking Smart Metering, you know that there's the possibility that these many electric cars, which are on the way in Austria or will also be standing in the garages, will be used as buffer storage to cover peaks. In this respect, there has hardly been any vehicles in recent years that would have been marketable; these have been very few. But now there are these vehicles on the market. I do not believe that people will change because they are so particularly environmentally conscious and therefore they will purchase additional costs, but I believe that people will simply change because in the future these cars will become cheaper and cheaper. We already see this with a model that also imports Denzel, with electricity costs from about € 2 to 100 kilometers, and you also have to say: full torque in every speed range of the engine. So you see: There are many advantages. By the way, we could already enable electromobility in Austria across the board with the energy generated from wind power in Austria. In other words, Austria as a future-oriented country would be able to become self-evident in this area, which would be a very, very great progress. And we also need smart grids and smart metering. I believe that investment in smart metering should be preferred and invested in such measures in times of increased unemployment. I also said in discussions with the national energy suppliers that it would be useful for the federal government to take part in these investments, because all of this also relieves the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: The companies themselves can afford this!]] What the ElWOG is going on: Change of supplier is very important for a free customer, which makes it easier than before to switch providers without higher fees, that there is a very clear separation between the producer and the operator of the network. Not all have great joy with this path, but I support him very much. There are, of course, many stakeholders who want to involve their ideas, their own, personal interests or interests in this law. I have heard some comments from the previous speakers, which I have heard one of those stakeholders who have been prayed down here by some. I believe that it is necessary to make this decision-making, and I also believe - we will talk later on about an amendment - that it is necessary in the case of infrastructure investments to ensure that interests relating to energy autarchy in Austria are not put under the table. This too must be a public interest when it comes to supplying people in Austria with domestic and renewable energy. As for the construction of pipelines, we also believe that it is not useful to invest in a technology that in reality has no big future. The future of energy policy in Austria lies in hydropower, wind power, photovoltaics, solar thermals, geothermal and biomass. Therefore, we must do everything we can to ensure that these energy sources are used to the best possible extent. Today, in the context of this decision, we will make our votes to achieve a constitutional majority, even if we are not completely enthusiastic about all parts of the legislative text – but that is in the nature of the matter – as you can imagine. However, I believe that it is necessary that an opposition party, which recognises that Austria also needs compromises in some areas, becomes active here and makes its votes available. [[Abg. May. Widmann: What was the price? How much was the purchase price?]] This, ladies and gentlemen, also applies to the budget: We would also be prepared if we were to have a structural reform to provide the necessary votes for constitutional majority voting. By the way: I believe that such a path should be pursued more often in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18073	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18094	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is at issue here and today is the implementation of the so-called Third Internal Energy Market Package, which regulates the liberalisation of the electricity market. The priorities of the innovations have already been addressed by a number of previous speakers, and I must therefore refer only to the most important innovations. One major area is the area of consumer and customer rights. We have what a change of suppliers is about, now we have the determination that we have wanted to have for a long time: instead of eight weeks now, we have a three-week deadline until the change has taken place. This is a clear improvement, as is the cost of it. We have clear rules as to what the vulnerable customers need: a maximum price regulation for shutdown costs, the advance payment counters and payment fees – €70 up to now – will be recalculated, this amount is limited to €30. Assurances, advance payments are now limited to a monthly rate – earlier up to three instalments were required. There is also an accurate model of customer information, the comparability of tariffs. As far as the tariff calculator is concerned, i.e. the tariff calculator that has existed since 2001, suppliers are now obliged to provide the relevant data. What was once voluntary is now to be regulated by law. The Smart Metering system has been addressed several times. We have different stages, and the first stage will be that we have the legal framework for this with today's decision-making, and on the basis of economic assessments, the details regarding the introduction period, surface coverage involving the industry, consumer and data protection rights will still be taken into account under a regulation. In the final effect, the point is not what is being regulated, but what the customers have of it, and customers thus simply have better control possibilities, which leads to their energy consumption, which is what the efficiency is about to achieve, and thus an optimization that should actually benefit consumers in particular. As a second point, we also have a regulation on unbundling. – We have two different areas. One is the area of transmission networks: As a result, we offer several options between the different systems, which ensure a corresponding unbundling without too deep an intervention in property rights, in order not to create unnecessary costs. What the distribution networks arrive – where the customer sees the relevance as well – we have already had a unbundling in 2004. There is now a corresponding innovation in brand policy: The brand appearance, the logo, the name must be presented in such a way that the customer can clearly distinguish between the network operator and the producer. The directive also calls for the distribution network operator to have sufficient financial and human resources to be independent of the parent group. – The detailed arrangements for this implementation remain with the countries. This brings us to the third area, which has caused the greatest excitement in the public, or has drawn attention to it, which is the redesign of the regulatory authority; we have had to implement it because of the requirements of the directive. So far we have had a GesmbH and now we need an authority sui generis if we want to call it that. We have focused on the construction of financial market supervision, because the background was that there is only one single national regulatory authority and there must also be an independent appeal agency – that was the innovation. As has been said, we have chosen the design according to the model of the FMA and thus have three organs: Executive Board, Regulatory Commission and Supervisory Board. The Executive Board consists of two members; due to the size, tasks and so on, the Executive Board is extended. This is precisely the question raised: Chief Executive Officer. Mr Widmann, you're right, it's country representatives sitting in there. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber.]] Because we have nine federal states, the two boards can only come from one federal state! In the final effect you are right, but there is no nomination right of the countries, but there is a right of nomination from us, and that is a clear difference to what you have said here, and that is the reality. It is also important, since we have a different principle from the point of view of instance, that we have clearly defined a four-eye principle there. That's the background. [[Abg. May. Widmann:... Counsellor, Minister! Counsellor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] The regulatory authority shall act in regulatory areas without any discretion. The instance within the regulatory authority is as follows: In co-decision proceedings, the first instance of the board, and the second instance, the appeal authority, is the regulatory commission. Then comes the procedure that has been used so far, namely the call of the VwGH. In the final effect, I do not want to go into detail here now, these three very concrete areas of implementation. There is a question that has been asked again and again by you: Is this a implementation of minimum standards, or do we meet anyone? – I think we have made a balanced arrangement. It would be fatal if someone in this area could say that his interests were helped to break through, because there must be a balance of possibilities, and I think this is balanced. This applies in particular to the following individual arguments and arguments: We have already discussed the cost of pumping storage, what the network tariffs are going on, and, Mr Widmann, I have been surprised that you have taken over the argumentation of the union there. - Wonderful! This is a company owned by the state, but it would be unfair if the association, which has already been favoured, were to be further favoured, because that would actually be paid by consumers, or whoever runs a pumped storage power plant – it is not only the combination in the field. You also mentioned that I had said something of 77 million in the “Economic Sheet” regarding the regulator. – That makes a difference! They have then named somewhere 30 to 35 million, and this number has also not been verifiable, but it stands in space: That's a presumption, maybe it is! We will then have to re-regulate this in the context of the Eco electricity Act. There is also what Mrs Lichtenecker has mentioned and what we have discussed in the Committee, not the disadvantage of eco electricity producers by this regulation, but the eco electricity law regulates renewable energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker]] What we are regulating here are, of course, certain areas - we have already explained in the Committee - that installations up to 5 MW and so on are excluded from the network delivery fee and so on, but of course not from the information obligations. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Net losses! Net losses!]] – This makes sense, because if I operate wind turbines or something similar, even in the solar field, then the corresponding operator must have the information, otherwise he cannot provide sufficient pipe capacity. I would like to return to the country debate: Much has been secreted and built up. In the final effect we have found a good decision: The decision-making bodies of the Federal Authority are appointed by the Federal Government and the country representatives are provided for in the Regulatory Advisory Council. This is also useful in terms of content, because the countries are responsible for distribution networks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] It is therefore a very useful procedure to bring in their advisory expertise. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, there is a well-balanced law on implementation. I am expressly grateful to the FPÖ, and I should also like to point out that I am surprised that the other parties do not agree to these implementations, because there are clear improvements for consumers and consumers, and because the rest essentially focus on the directive. That is why I cannot understand the rejection. Secondly, because South Stream and its possibilities have also been addressed: We should also leave the church in the village, which is what our possibilities are. This is a project that we do not operate. Of some thousand kilometers, 56 are located in Austria. This strengthens our possibilities in the field of security of supply, because we all strive for autarchy, but we know about consumption, we have 20 percent of the final consumption of electricity – there we can force renewable energy sources – but as far as the other part of consumption is concerned, we hope in 2020 we will have 34 or more percent of it, but a large part will simply depend on natural gas. And natural gas, Mrs Lichtenecker, is environmentally friendly, is what CO2 is about, a good energy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Transition technology!]] That is why we will still need natural gas in order to ensure a certain degree of consumer protection and the economy, but also in terms of security of supply, we will have a hub function for Europe – and that is what the EU really wants from us in the energy sector, because the competitiveness and independence of Europe will increase if we become more independent as well as what the sources are reaching, but also what the routes are about to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I can conclude. I'm sorry that my statements were a little longer than that. I should like to thank all the parties involved who ultimately agree here, but above all the stakeholders and our House. It was a very complex, very extensive matter that is regulated here. Thank you for that, and I hope that the implementation will work as well as it is sought.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18194	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18216	Mr President. Minister! The payment dispute between Russia and Ukraine in 2006 has shown us – the Minister has just referred to it himself – how quickly supply bottlenecks in fossil energy can also be found in Europe. The conflict has once again shown that one-sided dependence can quickly go backwards. In order for such a thing to happen, there is now this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and operation of the South-Stream-Erdgas pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Austria. What does this agreement mean? – It means, of course, mutual support in the implementation of the project, including, among other things, facilitating, for example, the issue of permits or more favourable conditions on a non-discriminatory basis, but also that all are committed to the pipeline getting the status of a project within the framework of the Trans-European Networks. But I say here consciously and clearly: We also say that this should not be a sign of straining on fossil energy sources. In the long run, of course, no path passes through alternative sources of energy. However, the fact is that it will last for many years until full supply with alternative energy sources, and until then we must also use fossil energies and also with the help of this South Stream pipeline to ensure that people do not freeze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18246	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18267	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, as the last sentence you said, you hope that this will be implemented for the benefit of consumers. – You’re right, hope is dying last, but this also shows, of course, that you are not quite sure whether everything will happen here as you plan, otherwise you wouldn’t have said it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Oh yes!]] That's the way it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] Of course, it is gratifying if the change of providers is now taking place much faster and more favourable, so if the times required are reduced and the amounts to be taken into account are also – that is all right, Mr. Federal Minister – but what I am missing is, as it were, the sanctions for non-compliance with the requirements for the change of suppliers. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner:... take action!]] They're missing out very easily now if someone doesn't. - That's one thing. The transparency and comparability of electricity calculations, as it has been before, are, of course, an insanity: There's no one on an account. If this is going to be so in the sense of the consumer that you can understand it, that is all right, not a question. However, as far as the policy-making set out in this law is concerned, Mr Federal Minister, it now threatens the independence of e-control. They're going to shoot Mr Boltz in principle, it's nothing else. Countries as owners of ETUCs are now to be included in the regulatory advisory board. In principle, they create nothing but a double board instead of a managing director. The proportion is being reintroduced and the administration is inflated because there is now a regulatory commission with five posts instead of so far. That's what you do with it. It's like that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Preiner:... a BZÖ managing director!]] With this novelle, the Chamber of Commerce and the Federal Chamber of Labour will, as it were, receive a right of appeal against the e-control's costs. . I believe that there would have been a possibility of an opinion in the course of the regulation. That should have been enough! As it will look out with the smart metering, we will see first, because the cost recovery in this area is not yet precisely defined. There are already massive criticisms from the Chamber of Labour and so on, because a few years ago the house letter specialist facilities happened the same thing. If the current meters are exchanged for new, intelligent, and it does something, then it's all right, but such an overturned global introduction poses certain dangers! First of all, it is necessary to clarify whether consumers also have an advantage of who bears the costs and how data protection is ensured in this area. – If customers have better control options, then it is okay, but we will first see how this will look in the future. The network delivery fee now covers consumers alone. It is true that the producer who pays virtually nothing for it, but the consumer alone pays something for it. The producer uses the network as well, but has nothing to pay. He could theoretically have everything built up by foreign companies and thus deduct value creation from the country as it were, but can be paid by consumers. This can certainly not be in the sense of the consumer!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18343	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18364	Mr President. Mr. Minister! We all want a functioning energy market and, of course, it is very important that the liberalisation of energy markets be implemented very quickly. It also plays a central role in Europe's competitiveness, which is why the European Union already has this third in September 2009. Internal Market Package adopted accordingly, thus redefining the legal framework for the internal market in electricity and gas. Let's not always assume from the outset that this doesn't work, but let's assume that it works, and I'm pretty sure of that. Dec Half of these negotiations, involving the various interests of businesses, households, energy consumers, energy suppliers, grid operators, e-controls, the federal states, have quickly found a compromise for the implementation of this EU directive in fair negotiations, and I would like to thank Minister Mitterlhner very much for the implementation of the EU internal energy market. However, in this context I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Security of supply is particularly important – and this is no doubt – as import dependence in the European Union has increased by 20 per cent since 1990 to 56 per cent in total and will continue to increase to more than 65 per cent by 2030 if we do not change anything. That is why I believe that this security of supply is also implemented within the framework of the 3rd framework. The EU Internal Market Package should be recognised as a central objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18451	The amendment tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18554	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, with regard to the amendment itself, as a short interruption of the meeting for the preparation of the Croquis, I would not be able to put the votes on the requests for agenda items 22 and 23 to the end of the sitting. I therefore do not introduce it either. Next word: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18581	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points relating to the construction of the gas pipeline. We all know what difficulties and problems we had in the years 2006 and 2009. Therefore, I think it is necessary and important that this pipeline be built. We also know that imports will continue to increase dramatically in some European countries over the next few years and decades. In Austria too, it is a fact that the need for the gas is greater. Security of supply is important for the population – we know this discussion since 2006 – but above all for businesses and for the whole economy. It is therefore necessary and important that this pipeline is built for new sources of reference and new transport routes and transport routes. We know that the completion is planned for 2015, i.e. in about five years. A total of 31 billion cubic meters of gas will flow from 2015 onwards. It will also be necessary in Austria for the respective companies to make their investments. The Minister said it was about circa 55 or 56 kilometers. That ultimately means employment, and that is correct and important. Ladies and gentlemen! For the companies involved, especially for the participating countries Russia and Austria, it is important that stable framework conditions exist on both sides with this presentation and in particular with the agreement between Austria and Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18623	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18645	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the amendment tabled by Mr Haubner, to § 4, where it is intended to be inserted after the Z 6 Z 7. I read this again now, and I am looking to pay particular attention to the first sentence: “7. take into account public interest in the supply of electrical energy, in particular from domestic, renewable resources, in the evaluation of infrastructure projects.’; The "public interest" – and in the explanatory statement, ladies and gentlemen, is the speech of the "security of supply" and the priority given to it. Do you know what that means? – ÖVP and SPÖ know exactly what that means. That is why this amendment has now been tabled at the end of the debate and not what would have been correct in the committee or 24 hours before the plenary session. This is an incredible process! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sourry!]] What does that mean? What does “public interest ” mean? – You know exactly – and the FPÖ participates in this game – that this is ultimately a free letter in connection with the environmental impact assessment, a free letter for power plant construction, a free letter for management construction. Ladies and gentlemen, this must not be! There are rights for citizens and they must be respected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, this amendment, which you have tabled in the Husch-Pfusch procedure, is very planned and very thoughtful, which is why we will not be able to offer ourselves that over neighbours, about residents and about nature conservation! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] You must be aware of this – including you from FPÖ – that with the support of this amendment you are torpedoing environmental and civil rights. They will have to expect not only the Greens to shout out loud, but also all environmental organisations and civil rights organisations to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Hofer, please stop talking about citizens' rights, Austrians' rights in connection with infrastructure projects! Please stop talking about what environmental protection and nature conservation mean, because what has been presented here is exactly contrary to these rights! With a little backbone, it would be natural that you do not support it in this form. They chat so nice, Mr. Hofer, about smart metering and electric cars and so on, but do not say with a syllable that this is a serious restriction on the rights of the environment and citizens. It can't be like that. We have today submitted a referral request. This legislative matter has been substantially changed in various points with the amendment tabled by Mr Haubner, which would justify this approach very well to refer it back to the Committee and re-enter the discussions in order to find a fair solution to the rights of citizens, the rights of the environment and the protection of nature.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18709	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18746	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Austria and the European Union compete with many other countries. That is why the liberalisation and security of supply of energy markets, as mentioned many times today, are of crucial importance. Energy costs not only affect households but also businesses, which is why these costs are very likely to have a decisive impact on our economy and on our jobs. Some of the priorities have already been mentioned: Strengthen and safeguard consumer rights, effectively unbundling transmission and transmission network operators, ensuring free market access for suppliers, developing capacity for new producers, harmonising regulatory authorities' responsibilities and ensuring and strengthening the independence of the national regulatory authority. Some examples have already been mentioned. For example, the easier change of providers within three weeks. Customers also have the right – and the Minister has said this very well – that they receive all the consumption data concerning them. There is also the free choice of suppliers, which from my point of view is very important. That is, anyone connected to a network, whether electricity or gas, can be supplied by a supplier of his choice, regardless of the Member State in which the supplier is registered. The aim of these schemes is to set minimum standards to ensure consumer protection, security of supply, environmental protection and competition in all Member States. – All in all the regulations that benefit not only our households but also our companies and thus strengthen and secure our economic location. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18779	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18800	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am always amused when the Greens come to the speaker's desk and pretend they are actually a party that is at the heart of environmental protection. That's not the case for a long time. They are a party that has committed itself to social policy, which primarily makes social policy, policy for immigrants, asylum seekers – of course all legitimate – but certainly not strong for environmental protection, ladies and gentlemen! For one thing – I say it again – cannot be: that your Bundesobfrau, Mrs. Colleague, comes into the car with the golf bag in her hand in the early morning and then pretends as if she is saving resources, that your Bundesobfrau in her apartment in Vienna heats with gas and pretends to be saving the environment that your federal guardian is going ahead with the BMW in front of Parliament and pretends to be saving the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: But stop!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] This is really last-class and not really credible. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Stop it! You know exactly that's a nonsense!]] I don't want to believe that she's bringing her child to care with the tram, of course not. There you have to drive the BMW, that's quite clear. The greens are always the same. You're talking about environmental protection, but... We are against biomass, because it could be fine dust! You are for environmental protection, but: We're against the hydropower! – You greens are unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You are in favour of environmental protection, but you are against the construction of wind power plants, because this could cause some birds to be disturbed. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a credible policy, and we will certainly not support it! [[Call the ÖVP: Neither do we!]] I tell you, if we are building hydroelectric power plants in Austria, then we are making an important contribution to the fact that this Austria is also becoming energy self-sufficient. This can't be done without hydropower! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: They betray the citizens in Austria and the environment!]] You of the Greens with your strange, foreign philosophy on the sweetly scented campfire are certainly not a party for Austria, which can really bear government responsibility. I am already looking forward to your work in Vienna and I am excited how you want to achieve your goals in Vienna. I'm really curious about that. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This will work as well as in Upper Austria!]] I am convinced that it will become a huge flop, which will ensure that after the next election of Vienna, the mayor Heinz-Christian Strache will be called. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] How credible these left-wing politicians are in the green coat, you can see that on Joschka Fischer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Joschka Fischer – a green politician through and through, now lobbyist for the large corporations for nuclear power. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Take a position on the amendment!]] As soon as the greens come to the feed trough, they are also available for sale, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hörl.]] Therefore: We insist that in Austria we also need to build hydroelectric power plants. We insist that we also need biomass power plants in Austria. How do you intend to implement renewable energy needs in Austria? – Do you want to create electricity on your bike with the Dynamo and feed it into the grid? How does that work? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Mr. Hofer, don't be ridiculous with your argument!]] Or is Mrs Glavischnig supposed to install a generator in her BMW, or is she going to generate energy in the golf game, which is fed into the grid? – Certainly not, ladies and gentlemen! We would like to say: Austria also needs hydropower!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18959	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18980	Mr President. Federal Minister! ==References====External links== Energy package will also be the Austrian energy market and, of course, the Gas Economic Act. I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Katzian, Mr Haubner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, by the end of February 2011, with the the European requirements of the 3rd Convention. the implementation of energy packages in the gas sector; the conditions for maintaining and expanding the position of Austria as a hub in the European gas network; maintain the structures at the distribution level; vertically integrated companies can continue to have their parts and thus have the opportunity to draw up tax revenue for Austria; the designation of a market area manager by the transmission system operator, which ensures the coordinated operation of the overall network of the market area, ensure that there is a distribution area manager that manages the interface between the transmission and distribution network, provision should be made for an obligation to cooperate between the Distribution Area Manager and the Market Area Manager; different clearing systems should be provided for in the accounting model of the market area; the extension of the backpack principle until the virtual trading point is possible. The following premises shall be kept: The catalogue of Austrian transmissions must be adjusted. It is about maintaining long-term capacity reserves for domestic supply and transit. For this purpose, the Gas Economic Act provides for a provision which excludes the termination of existing contracts as a result of the change in tariffs. The existing tariff methods as necessary investment incentives are maintained. The Independent Transmission System Operator Model in Austria is being implemented. Each network user should be registered with the Market Area Manager and subject to the accounting rules in the market area. The implementation of the future Europe-wide mandatory regulations will be adequately prepared. A clear transparent interface to the transmission network is created. The current market model of the control zone in the distribution network can be transferred to the new system and adapted accordingly to the clearing point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19078	The motion for a resolution by Mr Katzian, Mr Haubner, Mr President, which has just been presented in his key points, has been tabled. sufficient support is provided in writing and is therefore under negotiation. Because of its scope, it is multiplied and distributed. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19226	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19247	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Austrian energy policy is committed to the principles of safe and sustainable energy supply, the conscious and efficient use of energy and the increased use of renewable energy. At the same time, there is also political consensus in this House that it is essential to achieve climate policy objectives and to reject nuclear energy as an energy production completely. In order to meet these requirements, domestic energy supply will continue to be based on a mix of traditional and renewable energy. Among the aspects of security of supply, competitiveness, sustainability and durability, we must also organise European gas supply. During the gas supply interruptions of Russia over Ukraine in 2006 and 2009, the strong dependence on Russian gas imports and the lack of alternative supply lines was strongly criticised. If we decide today on the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Russian Federation on the South Stream natural gas pipeline project, this is another step towards diversification of transport systems and possible future natural gas suppliers. While the Nabucco project is intended to supply Europe with natural gas from the Central Asian and Caspian regions, the South-Stream project is an additional connection from Russia through the Black Sea to Central and Southern Europe. In both projects, Austria could play a central role as a European natural gas hub. As in Europe, despite the increased expansion of local renewable energy production, demand for natural gas rose to around 250 billion cubic metres by 2030 It is important that long-term security measures are put in place in a timely manner. We will continue to force energy autarchy efforts, strengthen energy saving measures, continue to exclude nuclear energy as an alternative, and make it clear that energy is available to consumers and economies in the long term and to the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19295	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19317	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Lichtenecker, I think that is now unfounded panic. It is no secret, we, the ÖVP, confess ourselves to the expansion of hydropower and to the expansion of renewable energy. I think that is a very essential point. As described in the legislative text, we are concerned with a balanced balance of interests between environmental protection and security of supply with energy. In particular, we want to force renewable domestic energy. That's exactly what we want in this law text.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19351	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19373	Mr President. Federal Minister! It has always been that, when it was really about environmental interests, the ÖVP was the extended arm of the construction industry and otherwise something. But that's where you meet the trade union group from the SPÖ. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But that FPÖ is going here and you, Mr. Hofer, dress up as environmental spokesperson, stand out and with your two-thirds majority supply make the robbers for the environmental destroyers and sell them as progress, that is new. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your evasions are not new, but that you are now making this relatively transparent in this way. You'd have been given almost more trust, but let's get to the point again: Yes, of course, renewable energy sources are the right and the future in terms of energy conversion and generation. [[Abg. May. Karin Hakl: Right!]] But, please, everything with measure and purpose. In the electricity sector in particular, it is true that we also need to take care of the demand sector for consumption. [[Abg. May. Karin Hakl: More clean current, no nuclear current!]] They obviously have no idea of the economic data in the economic and environmental fields. You prove this with every call, Mrs Hakl. It's better if you're silent. Once you look at how the growth rates are in the electricity sector, you'll see that in many regions of Austria – you can also calculate this in a federal way – we're dealing with the power plant projects that are still planned, of which you're supposed to put them into practice. And you know very well that where we are ruling in Upper Austria, for example, exactly these individual case tests were going to see whether projects are still useful – not only in the consideration of energy economics but also of environmental interests. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] But it doesn't help. Even if anything else, which is still available at hydropower potential in Austria, would be used, one could never catch the increase with these expansion programs alone. By the way, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that well over 70 percent are already installed. You can see this if you would look at all the levels at the Mur in the Styria. I'll tell you: If electricity policy does not change in principle, then we will not get lost. Even if in the meantime a construction is started at the Mur-Stäu stage, the Styrian electricity increase is so large that we can only cover a small part of it. We create only 30 to 40 percent of the electricity consumption of one year, i.e. 20 weeks, with a Mur stau phase – and this is not so small at all. [[Abg. May. Karin Hakl: Eben!]] But they build three years. Do you know what that means? – We must constantly build dams on all rivers of Austria at the same time, the remaining heights of fall that still exist so that we can catch the increase at all. That can't be! The spell's over in a few years. Then dig a second Danube, or what? – You really have no idea! Not only do you have no idea of environmental protection, but they also have no economic idea of things, because otherwise you would have long seen and heard that it is about taking part in the overall strategy and doing something about consumption growth in the electricity sector. Otherwise, the talk of energy autarchy is a complete nonsense. You know exactly what's inside. With much less money, we would achieve much more efficiency in the electricity sector if only we were to put off this insanity that in Austria – especially in Austria; and these are the previous governments that have forced this for decades, even in the federal states – we still operate space heating with electricity, still producing hot water. With much less resources, there could be much more kilowatt hours saved than you were out there while investing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you don't want to know that because you're the extended arm of the composite society and how they all are called. This is not done because they have no interest in it because they are so imaginative and stick with you not to develop these models with which we can save energy and where you can earn energy efficiency. [[Abg. Grill: Don't be so upset!]] Of course that's reasonable! These models are everywhere. They are partially submined. Of course it was. Economically, it makes much more sense to look at both the consumer side and the supply side. But you don't think of anything like pasture at Hainburg but to build a dam and a dam. You've got them in your head. A creative deficit has occurred here. [[Congratulations and bravado with the greens.]] I can look at this every time in the Styria with the EStAG. They are all completely inflated in their board of directors, and they have nothing else to do with a lot of tax money and a lot of electricity – that is, the customer’s advertising campaigns – and to slander the whole sense of stupidity, instead of finally investing in the right thing. But they don't! These are from case to case hydroelectric power plants, yes, but they have long been about re-controlling in this area. Longest for the recontrol! If you look at where electricity is wasted everywhere in Austria, then the gray bulbs would climb you up. In the meantime, the electricity tariffs for the commercial operators are so low that it is obviously wonderful everywhere that you can get outdoors – outdoors!Use custom fonts; You can walk around the city – with electricity heating up the air. In the open! Great! Bravo! And that's where you say that's a reasonable energy policy?- Oh, my God! Enjoy yourself! Enjoy yourself! [[Abg. Gahr:... Smoke control!]] Don't shout in between! Every time it's the same! They do not want to realize that this is a fundamental re-control. And the Minister for the Environment, who is not here right now – I would prefer Mr Mitterlehner anyway, because we can at least discuss this at the very least – cannot be properly discussed with this. [[Abg. Grill: Stop it!]] The Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will now be doing exactly. This is always based on tax money costs, advertised and advertised: green jobs, green energy policy. – You do the opposite! Under the abuse of taxpayers, people will be lying, and the green jobs you create are those for the serialers in the newspapers and for a few posters. You can't do something else. That's what we're gonna do now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You always want to explain: The ÖVP, the Future Party, Ecology, Economy – unite under a hat. [[Abg. Grill: Eco-social!]] If you were to rely on you, that would be the classic betrayal. With you, ecologically and economically, it is always only that economy prevails before ecology. And that is also economically wrong in the long term. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Creating work – Protecting the environment: This is our motto!]] You should have understood this for a long time. That's what some wise people do with you. Only: They have nothing more to say. [[Abg. Grill: Creating work – Protecting the environment, Mr Kogler!]] And you too, Minister of State, are too close to me to all these electricity companies. Emancipate once!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19582	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19603	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow, Mr Kogler has now asked me to discuss this. I really do not want to take this seriously, but I would like to clarify the following: What has now been mentioned by you several times, what we need to do, you can understand that in the Austrian Energy Strategy. Not only we, but many others have also recognized that if we want to ensure the consumption of 2005 for the year 2020, we cannot rely on the expansion of hydropower alone. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes eh! That's where we agree anyway!]] That's where I have to tell you, we took this very carefully. They know the Master Plan, once again designed by Energy Minister Bartenstein with his experts. There were 7 terawatt hours included. In the energy strategy we now have 3.5. This is really a very reasonable, very careful approach – also taking into account environmental interests and all possibilities. What the energy strategy actually has in mind in this area is exactly what you have mentioned: efficiency. In reality, there are three areas. One area is thermal renovation. We want to address these with the €400 million in the next few years. The second area is new drive systems, such as e-mobility in the cars. The third area is management systems in companies, where you simply have to design the input more efficiently in the direction of output. What we have referred to earlier in this pact for efficiency is to bring many companies to deal with energy even more carefully than before. Therefore: All that has been said can be understood there. In addition to what the public interest is about, a sentence: It is not a question of introducing Mrs. Lichtenecker, the preferred water construction – or as it used to be – and thus disposing of rights, but of simply providing for public interest at all. This has not happened at all in this area. There is interest in security of supply, and this does not restrict the interests of the environment and citizens. They are precisely defined in the procedure. This should also be made clear so that fears do not arise again, which may lead to wrong fears and other decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19643	No further words are available here. The debate is closed. As announced: There are short-term amendments or additional requests. A brief interruption of the meeting to prepare the vote is not sufficient. I shall therefore refer the vote to agenda items 22 and 23 to the end of the sitting. [[18:49:47]] 24. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (993 e.g._Other Organiser Federal law amending the law on measures and eich (999 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19679	We will continue to complete the agenda and come to 24. Agenda item. Reported on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19703	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This proposal adapts the legislation to the new directives and regulations adopted by the EU. If we now look more closely at this government template, we will essentially recognize four new rules. First of all, the harmonisation of the legislation on measures and measures with the requirements of Community law. Secondly, the transfer of the empowerment of eich points to the Federal Office for Eich- und Vereichungswesen and related additions and clarifications in the Eichgesetz. Thirdly, the adaptation of the provisions on market surveillance and police revision to the requirements of the European Union. Fourthly, the introduction of the obligation for refrigerators and additional equipment for measuring instruments to determine value-setting characteristics such as gas, liquids and thermal energy. At the same time, consumers' demands are being met, for example in the health field. There, certain radiation measuring instruments, which are part of X-ray devices, are extended the obligors. In addition, the famous use of the Tara button is introduced. The sausage paper should now no longer be sold as packaging paper at the price of the product. That was a long wish of consumers. There have been concerns of holders of small business. However, these were cleared by the creation of a long transitional period until 2015. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the modernisation of the law on standards and rules will mainly relieve the economy. Up-to-date obligations will be abolished and the post-maturity periods extended. This means a pleasant cost-saving and, of course, also encouraging to consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19755	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19786	In fact, it would not be particularly important to consider the item on the agenda as a legislative measure and a directive, although it defines such fundamental things as weight, length, time and so on. So we're dealing here with the basics of existence and its measureability. By the way, if we want to allow ourselves the joke: We are not yet very precise as European legislators, because those who had at least twelve levels can recall general theory of relativity. We know today, for example, that it depends on the speed of time. It is the slower the observer moves. But the second part of it was: In 1916 the later Nobel laureate Albert Einstein presented the general theory of relativity at a lecture before the Prussian Society. In the meantime, it has also been proved experimentally that gravity also affects time. In a famous experiment 1975/76, the so-called Maryland experiment, it was actually shown that atomic clocks, which are located at 30 000 feet high for 15 hours, about 10,000 meters high, are slowing down by 53 nanoseconds. The law would therefore have to stand inside: in Vienna zero or zero ground level or in the case of gravity of 9.81 meters per second square. We forgive the Minister for the inaccuracy, because our voters are tormenting something quite different, namely sausage paper: yes or no? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: I think your voters are bothering something else: the budget!]] The sausage paper question! And with the ignorance that some members of the opposition show about the problems of trade, you have to talk about it, Mrs Colleague. Simply go over it, so according to the motto: What is the working situation of employees in the fine food departments of Austrian markets?, I wouldn't do that. They say that if we had a regulation where they had to put up paper in addition, press the Tara button, take the paper, go to the sausage machine, put the cut-off on it, give the paper back, have an additional operation that would be an extremely unpleasant process, especially if several customers were waiting. We take such objections seriously from the SPÖ without questioning the principle of net weighting. That is to say, it was possible in long discussions with the economy – and at this point I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for the clarification – to solve the problem in such a way that the product strain is covered by the Tara weight and that the colleague Ollinger has still not understood it. [[Abg. Oillinger: The tragedy is that you can talk about the problem for 5 minutes! That's incredible!]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Abg. Grosz: I would suggest that the speech be terminated!]] He too does not care about the 4,000 trade workers. In the second when this call came, a hundred employees have at the same time weighed the sausage, because they work part by 9 p.m. until they have cleaned everything up. One can completely ignore their problems. I wish the Greens good luck if they continue to do so. We take people's needs seriously. We have found a solution for this. We will continue to find solutions where we address people who earn an average of €1400, €1500 for a hard job in trade. We do not ignore with a joke or with an over-pass, as the colleague Ollinger does, whose problems, but find solutions and do not do so in a joke. The joke would have been appropriate at the beginning of my speech, Karl Ollinger, not to the working situation of the trade workers. I keep my mind from it, because they have a hard job. I thank the Minister. We found a solution. As of next year, the sausage will only be weighed net. The paper no longer has to be paid, and the employees have no additional work. I thank you for this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19868	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19899	Mr President. Minister! High house! As a food wholesaler, of course, I also have to express myself on the sausage paper – not because I believe that this is such an important topic. From my point of view, it is not necessarily necessary to change something here. It is just an adaptation to EU law, as I was told. There is the solution that you can do this story with the Tara button. The law's all right. Only, Mr. Matznetter: This is a zero sum game, I tell you, because if you have previously weighed the paper with the sausage and, so to speak, paid the paper for the sausage, it will be different in the future. [[Abg. Street: paper extra!]] The paper will have to be paid extra as packaging, because this many tons of paper for the packaging, which nobody wears, which no one can pay in trade. No one can pay for it in trade! That's just the way it is. That's why I'm saying: That's a zero-sum game. [[Abg. That's how all this is relativized by Mr. Matznetter!]] The transitional periods, Mr Minister, are also very well. We of the FPÖ agree with this law, but it is not such an important story. I would like to point out a point of order, Minister. I'm going to be really angry, that's this AGES plan. The AGES would like to introduce its own fees in the future, depending on the size of the food business, to be paid to the AGES between €1500 and €43 000 per year, so that the AGES will carry out the checks on food businesses. I'm really wondering: Which sick brain do such solutions at all come into play? – For example, the following should be said when the school is doing: We are now paying a police charge so that the police can control traffic and see that everything goes properly according to the road traffic law! Or: The Financial Office would have to receive a financial service fee to carry out the audits of the companies concerned. So I think you have to be careful here, because from my point of view, it is so that the state collects taxes and that these benefits also have to be paid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are very strongly opposed to this type of over-cost. Mr Minister, I would ask you – you are also from the food trade sector – to try to avoid this project, because a proper means of bringing these costs back would surely be savings in the administration and also in the Minister Stöger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19955	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e19979	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: Now comes the sausage milk mint!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Salami!]] On behalf of my colleague Mr Matznetter: I think you rightly referred to the importance of the service sector, the burden on sellers, which is absolutely right. I am convinced that the sale and work being done there – including in the gastronomy – and its requirements and what it needs by the employees is completely underestimated and underestimated. I think that a change is necessary and this, ladies and gentlemen, should always be reflected in the wages. It is almost priceless to have a good service on sale and in the gastronomy. This is truly a luxury in many parts of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will vote in favour of this bill and I would like to make my speech with the title of a comment by Rainer Nowak in the "Presse" of 17. End of November, who has been entitled: “The government for the sausage paper” and among them said that it is surprising that we have a chancellor who actually calls it nonsense and illusion that a budget with an administrative reform can also be consolidated.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20052	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also had this issue in committee and discussed it relatively briefly, because many of you are quite right, we are currently simply having more important issues than we are talking about the Tara keys and the like for a long time. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] But I can still be the link. The context is the law on measures and equidae, and we have some EU directives to implement. In this context, we have also solved this question, which has in itself been discussed for several years. It has been pointed out that, as far as the time limits and the like are concerned, implementations have also taken place in the interests of the companies, thus saving costs. We are interested in the Tara key that we find a regulation that does not burden the companies and especially their employees. That is why I am very right if we find a moderate implementation of certain processes, for example, when someone alternates with another in operation. If we can find a sort of package solution, I am right, we do not want to torture anyone in the implementation. On the other hand, we want to preserve the rights of consumers. That is why I believe that this is a quite moderate solution that we have now found. Mr Grastaur mentioned the AGES: It's not a subject today, I didn't invent it either. We will be able to talk more often about the subject, because there are now quite a few reasoned arguments that need to be discussed. That is why I would like to thank you once again for one subject, and the other will be discussed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20116	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20138	High house! We agree with this harmonisation law for many reasons, and, of course, as far as the sausage paper is concerned, we would be very much trying not to agree – because, as the word “wheat paper” already says, it is really sausage. It's completely sausaged to people. Mr Matznetter – now he's just going – you're really at the pulse of time, you have the ear to man, because if you say that people are tormenting the sausage paper and these huge investments in the sausage paper are not reasonable, then I wonder if you actually have contact with any voters, because the torments at the moment are quite different things. One thing is also quite certain: If you make yourself here and explain to us how the theory of relativity works, I can also tell you that this is not of any importance at all. The theory of relativity may concern those who travel with the navi and want to know how it works, or how the atomic currents relate, because there the theory of relativity is really relevant. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Here on earth we have quite different problems, and the problems are related to your budget, which you have also broken. - First of all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Secondly, we have problems with cartels, with price agreements, where people are really drawn over the table in a large style. It's not about a sausage paper where you have to pay one, two cents more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] – No, this is a big fraud, where the European Commission, in the end, sometimes consumes the money for these agreements and for these billions, which have been too charged. The European Union is there, and it is doing so, and the people who have paid too much over the years are getting nothing. These are the problems that we should talk about, and not about the sausage paper, which in this context is certainly only a very small area where we need to make improvements. That is why, Mr Matznetter, you are not talking about the theory of relativity and the distressing problems of the sausage paper, but about your communities as regards the budget, and about the things that really burden people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20196	Mr Katzian spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20218	Ladies and gentlemen! I certainly do not take the debate to the length, Mr Grastaur has said that it is not so important, and in fact there are more important things. But perhaps I would like to say one thing, that there are many people who are busy in the sale – especially ladies in the fine-food departments of the big supermarkets, but also in smaller shops – and who were really afraid that, when this is implemented as it was originally discussed, they always have to jump up and down between Tara button and cutting machine, and then the consumers in the snake shudder the salesmen. Therefore, it was also so important to come up with a good compromise that, on the one hand, makes it possible for handling in the large chains – which ensures that we will have fresh fine food in the future and not just everything else is packed – and on the other hand, through appropriate transitional periods also ensures that those who are busy in small shops have the necessary time to implement it accordingly. I believe that this law, and also the agreement on it, is an expression of the fact that we have tried to address and take into account all the needs that arise. I mean, it's a good compromise we should all agree to. I would just like to say to the calls from the past: It is important that you also take care of your colleagues in the trade, in a form that shows that you also know and understand what their needs are. There's more to it than a bunch of gravel in front of the Chamber of Commerce. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20258	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 999 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:08:42]] 25. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (1214/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20318	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Kitzmüller. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20346	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners! We have already heard this morning what tax burdens are on the families. It has become nothing better, it has not become less, quite the contrary, we have to note cuts and cancellations of benefits; and since the FPÖ, as we know, is the only family party, which is also responsible for families in difficult times and that the tax burden on families is weakened as far as possible, we have also made a clear request: a request to bring tax relief to families in our country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] With this load package presented today, the government is degrading the family to the milk cow of the nation. This is becoming more and more evident in the horrors that have been revealed to us. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be a rethinking. The basis of each progressive tax system, as is Austrian tax law, is the principle of taxation according to performance – at least it should be. This means, however, that persons with the same performance must also be taxed at the same time. The financial situation of our taxpayers cannot be reduced to wage and income tax, the financial situation is also greatly determined by maintenance obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, each one of you knows what's going on in a family if you just have to send a child on a ski course. An example of better understanding: A single person with an annual income of €11 000 does not pay taxes, which is also right and good. But if we have a single earner now, Alone owners of a family with four persons, then the one with an annual income of €22 000, after deduction of all maintenance obligations per year, has far less than €11 000 available. He pays €3 000 in taxes a year, and there is a fair tax? Families with more children are not only disadvantaged by the existing system of individual taxation, but also by investing – rightly – very much in their children, in education and in their way of life. But these people are paying and investing in the future taxpayers, in the future pensioners for those who do not have children and are constantly favored by tax. With us, the decision for children today, especially for the middle class, means as much as a criminal tax. This reduction in family income tax and income tax must be ended. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Sociable is our model also for single parents with two or more children and also for divorced or separated living parents. There is a system similar to our rules, which we have for parents living together and working together. That's exactly the goal of this model. Ladies and gentlemen, with this system, fair taxation is guaranteed, and – which can also be ignored – every taxpayer can calculate himself and see for himself how many taxes he has to pay and how much he has to pay. He can also choose which model he wants: Does it go into the new model or does it remain in the old system? We liberals are there, as in all other cases, for the freedom of choice of the powerful citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20406	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Rudas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20427	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery! I believe that this proposal makes it very clear where the different positions of the government and the opposition party FPÖ are. They want to introduce a family division through the back door, while we want to make the compatibility of work and family possible by investing, among other things, €80 million in child care all day long. So what's supposed to be fair to a family split model, and especially to your family split model, is a mystery to me. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: This is a family tax division – and no “family division”!]] Perhaps you will explain this to us in the Committee then, because if I work 40 hours, I have a tax advantage over someone who works for 80 hours together, it is anti-performance. It would be much more important for families, especially for women, to have adequate childcare facilities. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: This and this! Freedom of choice!]] They want to push back to the stove in past times and women. We want to support them in the labour market, and this is certainly not possible with the family division, but only with the expansion of day-to-day childcare facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, therefore simply jump into the next century and acknowledge that women today want to be independent in working life. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20493	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandel. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20515	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I noticed a few things about this family tax you're proposing here. First of all, I also believe that my predecessor is not the target of suddenly paying taxes on someone who earns less. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: This is stupid!]] – That’s not stupid, then you’d have read the application. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz:... with reading and understanding a problem?- Oh, my God!]] On the other hand, I would like to say that in Austria we have deliberately expressed our support for a modern form of family taxation. In 2009 we made a tax reform, where we started with a first step to introduce a child allowance of € 220 per child. This can also be divided into 60 percent for the mother, 60 percent for the father, including for divorced dependent fathers. I think that's a first step. Of course, this is an amount that can only be considered a first step, because, of course, we too would like to see our employees bring together a minimum of tax-free living per family member, so that we can really represent economic performance. But, unlike you, Mrs Colleague, we do not want to call into question individual taxation. We do not want a common cause, because it has proved successful in the 1970s. You can remember that in the 1970s there was still the family head, the family owner. We don't want to go back to this time, that's retro, and we're in favour of keeping it as it is now. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Finally, I would like to say the following: First of all, you also have inside that family taxation should work, for example, in the case of divorce and separation. I wonder: Some divorced, separated ones cannot even agree on visit periods or on a common care. How can we agree on common taxation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I can't imagine that at all, and that suddenly the maintenance payments for the children of the single parent should be charged and considered as an income component, with a weight factor of 1.3 – I must tell you that I can't imagine that this is absolutely unacceptable. The last thing to criticize, or what I can't imagine at all, is the following: Imagine, a family can choose whether to pay for family taxation or whether to pay for individual taxation, with a cover of €4,000. Who should make the parallel bill? Every family would have to take a tax advisor to get it all in line. The financial officials would be so burdened that you still need to know God how many to do, otherwise they could not do it at all. I think we will still have enough opportunity in the Committee to discuss this. Just as it is here – and I say this to you – we will certainly reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20584	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Heard to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20605	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to point out to my colleague Rudas, who unfortunately left the meeting room, that we, the Freedom Party, are very important to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I don't know how often we need to stress that. I would also like to inform you that, in the end, the variation of child benefit with the longest period of reference is the most sought after. That is, parents – often mothers, sometimes fathers too – want to be with their children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So I don't know what's so hard to understand, that, of course, the left half of the empire, in particular, wants to move the most dear children with one or two months in any so-called childcare facilities. With this we have already – no, we have not yet found ourselves with it, of course we will continue to fight and inform society that this is the wrong way. To the colleague Tamandl: I would like to remind you that the ÖVP perspective group at the time has been very positive about the free-standing model of a family tax division. As far as I know, this perspective group has even presented the proposal to the mother party – that you once again slip off from these good issues, that is nothing new to me, because finally, as a family party, the ÖVP has failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anneliese Kitzmüller has already described why our family tax model is a very good one. The main point is that at the fertility rate, we are about 1.4 far below the “reproduction factor” – under quotation marks. Finally, this does not assure us the future, we know it very well. Instead, the government, whether red or black, no matter what, one or the other wants it for other reasons, to constantly cast these missing births with immigration; and we know that immigration has often been a migration into the social system over the last decades. We have to find out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Addressed to the SPÖ Members: The name Peer Steinbrück tells you something. The last socialist finance minister in front of the era Merkel recently published a book – since you do not need to sink in your seats at all – in which he has found and announced that immigration in Germany is often or most of the time past labour market immigration into the social security systems of Germany. I wonder, Do politicians and managers always have to leave the system to come up with this fact or the facts on it? – Here you have to ask yourself the question of whether you are not on an error road here. We say: They're on an error road, which is proved to be a constant one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to sum up once again what is ultimately our family tax model: The household income is weighted on the head count and the tax burden is then calculated. In fact, it is a fair tax system when you calculate the tax burden on your family's heads. I don't know where there's something that can be seen here. We also note that in France, where a very similar system was introduced, the birth rate has already increased to two children, and it is interesting not in the completely destroyed suburbs of Paris, but in the broad middle class. A process has been set up here, especially the middle class in France wishes and again receives more children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In summary, I would like to present this highly meaningful proposal as follows: More children are equal to less taxes, that should be clear to everyone here, is equal to more justice, is equal to a higher birth rate – and that is also the future. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, you agree with this request from the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20714	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20736	Mr President. The question is whether this equation is going on in this way. But one thing has to be kept to the FPÖ indirectly, because the colleagues have said phase by phase: through the back door. - No, it's quite clear. What you want is clear, that's an attitude. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: We want more children!]] – Not only that, but also the instrument is clearly described, namely the fiscal family split. That's understandable, too. The other question is only if this is to be done with the same tax revenue, the consequence is also clear: Discrepancy is to be integrated with the proposal, and the tax burden will shift. If you have single earners in a family or in a household and compare that with the same gross income from both elsewhere, it is clear what happens. Then in the current situation of the household with single earners is worse when it comes to the same. That makes sense in the progression, and that's what you want to fix. This is all understandable, but the point is quite different. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The point is that it also becomes different in social understanding. That is why I am positively surprised by Mrs. Tamandl that it is obvious to her not only to remain in the individual tax principle for tax reasons, but also to use it for life-model reasons, because modern society no longer exists in the father-mother-child scheme without further notice. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Then, too, the question arises of how to deal with it taxly. One should not be able to do so through the tax system of social policy. It will also be possible to do otherwise. Last argument: If it's so important to you to have more children, then one should give us some thought: The financial transfers and benefits, including indirect remuneration via the tax system, are not so low in Austria. But help doesn't do anything, we see that in other countries. They have higher birth rates in the countries, where many so-called benefits in kind – also a foreign expression in this context – exist, even more childcare services, where it is easier to get back to work in their own choice – the free choice you are talking about – under the rule and with many other measures. These are the solutions if you want more children. But there you have to look into the Scandinavian countries, or from me even in the case to France, who have chosen exactly another system, just not the family split.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20788	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Lugar in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20810	Mr President. High house! The problem behind it is: We have too few children. That's, I think, undisputed in this house. With a birth rate of 1.4, we will not be able to maintain the social systems, and we will certainly not be able to continue to finance our payment-pension system, at least not in 20, 30 years. So what? This is the central question: What can you do? If you look at the speeches, I wonder if this is always so at the pulse of time what is being said here. Just one example: Imagine a couple, relatively young, both deserve good, both are full-time busy, are so-called thinks. I don't know if you know that, but by the way, they're very popular, these dinks, all kinds of advertising professionals and the banks. “Dinks” means “Double incoming – no kids”. There is even a separate category for this, which are mostly those who have a corresponding income, who also bring it back to the people and who are relatively good. Such a couple wants to have a child now, and now the question is – and that is the central question, I think, as far as this request is concerned: Is this decision for a child dependent on the financial situation or not? - That's the central question. The central question is: So they don't want children because they can't afford it, or because they don't want it? – If they don't want it, then we need to talk ideologically about it, okay, we can do that in another place. But if they can't because they can't afford it, it'll be critical. That is exactly the point, and that is why I think it is very important to support it, because it is really so in Austria, if two full-time earns and one falls out, it will be difficult. And one thing is out of place, no matter what you do, Mrs. Rudas, in childcare. You can't seriously believe that a mother or a father – that doesn't matter now – gives the child full-time care away from the first minute of life. There's no need to have children. I have two children myself, I also want to spend time with them. [[Call the FPÖ: Were you in Karenz?]] That means a round-the-clock care so that I can work full-time again, that I do not lose my income, that is an illusion. So there will always be a loss of income when children come. And now, the legislator is at the word, which alleviates this loss of income so that children can be controlled again. That's what it's all about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One thing is also quite certain: People who choose children, besides all the emotional and other things that play there, also have an invaluable value for our society. They do something that is paid for in other areas. I'm just calling the care allowance, for example. Here, too, work is paid out because this is a valuable service for our society. Child warfare is also a valuable service to our society. We must not be too sorry to address this once. It's a service to our society, and that's what you have to pay. That's why: If we want to maintain our system in the long term, we must not put on ideological scams and do everything we can to make children financially possible again, because children will need us.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20861	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request made by the Financial Committee at 1214/A. [[19:29:39]] 26. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues in a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) (1219/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20901	We'll get to 26. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Vock is the first speaker to speak. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20928	My President! High house! The applications submitted here are four parts of a total of seven applications on the subject of "Leistible living in non-profit housing". We have requested that all the applications be dealt with jointly in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but unfortunately they are currently distributed to four committees, which is probably not useful because of the complex issue. It would be more useful to discuss this in one. The problem in principle is certainly known to all of you. In the past, the principle was as follows: One quarter to a maximum of one third of the income is expected for living. Today, however, it is true that in the urban area, an average income must already be spent on housing, whether it is non-profit housing or a residential property, because the non-profit housing is now as expensive as the acquisition of a dwelling. Young families, who want to start their existence, therefore have problems with the finances and associated with them again and again. The divorce rate especially among young families is very high in urban areas. That is why our President, Dr. Martin Graf, launched an initiative with his team and supported it with requests. We would like to discuss these requests in detail and propose to do so at least jointly in a committee, for example in the Building Committee, or, even better, to discuss them in the course of a parliamentary survey. Help make living in non-profit housing possible again!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20970	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e20992	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a little something about this in substance, because there has also been a statement of substance in Mr Graf's building committee. These applications essentially require the Court of Auditors' examination or the possibility of examining non-profit building associations, and I would like to comment on them, and this is also overlooked that the non-profit companies are the most audited companies – by the audit association. [[Abg. Grosz: But of itself!]] I would like to say the following: The auditors at the revision organisation have an academic training, they have to do three years of practice, then they can only take an aptitude test, are not wise and liable, of course, as in any other economic enterprise. In addition, the Community will be examined by the countries, which will have to be made public and will also be examined by the countries which are the promoters. Not addressed in these applications was the possibility of examining – and this is, of course, necessary for equality – all private builders who are not non-profit, who receive two thirds of the housing aid. A third of the €2.4 billion will be paid to the public and two thirds will fall to private. There is no reference to the possibility of examination, and this would, of course, be part of it for equality reasons. The Court of Auditors' audit was not addressed at all by the cooperative revision law, in which all cooperatives are organised. If you read “ORF online ” today, you could track a case from Styria, where a real estate operator is on the verge of where the apartments are afraid of their deposits. He did badly, a private, no joint-profit, worked without commercial rights, was at the same time brokers, house managers, builders, all in one, and now the owners do not know how to proceed. This would certainly not be possible in the case of a non-profit person. With regard to the required need assessment, the legal regulation is also clear. Commonly recognised construction associations must undergo a needs test, i.e. there must be demand. This scheme has also proved successful, a need assessment is carried out by the competent national government, so that market participants are also examined for their potential resources and whether they are serious participants; unimportant would not be given access to the housing market. The efficiency of such tests can also be seen in reality, as there has been no serious irregularities in the Austrian non-profit housing sector until now. They will remember that there has been a single criminal case in which there has been an unsavory market participant. This was the former FPÖ member Rosenstingl, the Lower Austrian cooperative, and he was a leader there and was then sentenced to criminal law for these criminal acts. [[Abg. Oillingers: There were a few others in there!]] Another request criticises the transfer of rental apartments, i.e. non-profit building associations to housing property, the fixed price. This fixed price regulation means that by law a price is only manifestly not appropriate if it goes beyond the local price. Here the FPÖ request requires that non-profit associations offer their homes more or less below the general market level in the future. The determination of the purchase price, this fixed price, and I would also like to remind you, was only introduced in 2000 with the participation of FPÖ in the government. In the case of non-profit housing associations, the cost coverage principle shall in any case be complied with, as foreseen in the WGG. I don't think that You mean privatization, like the BUWOG. We were able to go to the “Economic Sheet ” on 4 May. October of this year notes that under the collaboration of Karl-Heinz Grasser and friends from FPÖ, all of our property, that is, the BUWOG apartments, were sold by 800 € per square meter to certain companies and were then sold by these companies further by 1 700 € to 3 000 € to the former tenants. In summary, I would like to say to these requests that we can certainly not be weakened or destroyed, but can only strengthen the non-profit sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21041	The next speaker was Mr Singer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21063	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, with these and the following requests, you call for the Court of Auditors to extend its audit competence to non-profit associations. I very much appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors, but I will not let go of the impression that the opposition is only more entrusted to the Federal Court of Auditors to a level of audit competence, and to all-encompassing. [[Abg. New builder: It's not true! That's not true!]] Secondly, I do not understand – Mr Ruth Becher has already mentioned this – why the Court of Auditors should only examine the non-profit and not all construction associations. [[Abg. Grosz: Sure because they don't get tax money, the private!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At present, all non-profit building associations are subject to the cooperative revision, regardless of whether they are cooperatives or capital companies. The cooperative audit is about a comprehensive management audit, i.e. not only a cooperative review, in which only the legality and legality of the annual accounts are examined, but also whether the management corresponds to the required economic efficiency and effectiveness. However, the examination also covers the question of whether the cooperative has fulfilled its constitutional mandate. This material examination is also linked to the possibility of taking follow-up measures and also to pointing out that the defects have been identified. On the issue of the quality of the examination, I would like to draw only one point which has already been raised, namely in the Austrian cooperative audit system, in contrast to the German regulation, is not the association of the audit body, but the examiner appointed by the association. The revisor is independent and free of instructions and is subject to a special termination protection. In summary, I therefore see no need to bring about a change in examination competence. In the discussion in the committees, we will look at these proposals in depth. Ladies and gentlemen! On the grounds of the requests, it has been stated several times that non-profit housing associations receive billions of heavy public funding. Yes, they receive funds for the construction and renovation of apartments. A few figures: The new building volume of the common beneficiaries is €2.1 billion, thus building around 16 000 new building apartments. A total of 815 000 apartments are managed by the public, which is an important economic factor in Austria. Some 45 000 jobs are thus secured. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the common people are an essential factor in Austria's residential landscape. They have so far built more than 875,000 apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21113	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21134	Ladies and gentlemen! We will not, of course, conclude a debate on these proposals in the committees. However, I do not want to hide the fact that we have so far been skeptical about extending the audit activity of the Court of Auditors to non-profit housing associations. The Court of Auditors should primarily examine the public or the partial public and should have its focus on auditing. Of course, non-profit people are very close to the public: They receive massive subsidies, they are exempt from the income tax. It can already be argued that there is an increased interest and therefore makes sense of the audit activity of the Court of Auditors. But – and this is the crucial point – there are already control mechanisms! It has already been said by the previous speakers of the ÖVP and SPÖ: The review body shall examine and, through the Examination Directive Regulation, ensure that this is done by independent examiners. Of course, there is an optical flaw when the revision association carries out the test activity on the one hand and is a representative of interest on the other. But for a change of law, there will need to be something more than an optical flaw, that is, concrete abuses that justify a change of law. If there are no specific maladministrations, then that means that the system of testing by the revision association and the other test bodies works, and then there is no need to change the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21166	The next speaker was Mr Grosz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21188	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Mr Steinhauser! Mrs Becher! Deputies Singer! “The revision association was on the one hand a test body, but at the same time also the representation of the interests of the non-profit associations to be examined by it. The bodies of the revision association consisted mainly of officials of the non-profit building associations.” – page 105. Page 106: The Court of Auditors extremely “critically assessed the control system existing in the field of non-profit building associations”. “Since the supervisory authorities did not initiate their own examination during the period of three years observed, the control system in practice was based almost entirely on the activities of the review association.” – page 106. Page 107, Mr Steinhauser: “The Court of Auditors was therefore unable to understand a wide range of control activities in this area.” – Not the BZÖ Press Office, nor the request of Members Bucher, Westenthal or the request made by Mr Graf, no, the report of the Austrian Court of Auditors 2009, Series 7! I congratulate the broad vision, including the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. And: Yes, it is true that we want to subject the non-profit housing cooperatives to the control of the Court of Auditors because they are saving themselves the income tax, because, for them, like the Chamber of Labour, not the institution of the BZÖ, but, I believe, the Social Democracy, it has already found in 1990 that not the interests of the housing users are in the foreground, but mainly the interests of the participating credit institutions; the participating credit institutions of the so-called non-profit housing cooperatives such as the Raiffeisen Landesbank Burgenland, the Sparkasse, the Sozialwerk Bau-Holz, the ÖGB, the BAWAG, the City of Linz, the Oberbank, the Bank for Upper Austria, the BAWAG Graz, the First Bank, Mr Salmutter, Mrs Hostasch, Adolf Ottendorfer, Mr Mag. Heinz Vogler, in this case the housing association for private employees Gemeinnutzige GesmbH, once again the BAWAG, the association, the Chamber of Industrial Economy, the Bankhaus Krentschker & Co., the Raiffeisen Landesbank. At the very least, Raiffeisen reads in every second so-called non-profit housing cooperative, because, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, the Court of Auditors - you can read this in 2009 in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” - and at the same time the Chamber of Labour has found that they charge their tenants through the bank costs that are on the upper border, and because these so-called non-profit housing cooperatives do not work in a charitable way, for the benefit of the general public – excuse! – but have sales returns of up to 39 percent. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Don't be so loud!]] Madam President, this is not beneficial! Madam President, I am sure you will agree to this: The common good means that for the benefit of the general public and our cooperatives, we divide the rents and make life easier for the people in this country, also facilitate living, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What these housing cooperatives do is precisely the opposite when they generate returns when they enter profits when they belong to the banking institutions when they press the income tax and thus use tax money. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally support the request made by Mr Graf, especially as Mrs Ing. ==References====External links== On 27 October 2007, the same application was submitted on 27 October 2007. ==References====External links== Westenthaler has come, one has come in 2008 and Mr Graf's request is in line with the efforts we have been making in this House for years and which the Court of Auditors has also submitted. I am therefore also looking forward to a fertilizing discussion in the Committee without a time limit in view of these documents and materials which are not part of the BZÖ press service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21233	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1219/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:47:42]] 27. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 8. ==References====External links==* Official website No. 139/1979, as amended (1221/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21273	We're coming to 27. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. – No one is reported in the word. I therefore close the debate and grant Amendment 1221/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:48:23]] 28. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 16 November 1885 was adopted. Court of Auditors (R.H.G.) ==References== No. 144/1948, amended (1222/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21321	We arrive at the 28th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. – In the word, no one has been reported. I therefore close the debate and grant Amendment 1222/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:49:04]] 29. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on non-profit in housing (WGG) (1226/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21363	We're coming to the 29th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. – No one is reported in the word. I therefore close the debate and grant Amendment 1226/A to the Building Committee. [[19:49:38]] 30. Point First reading: Proposal by Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (Novelle Generation Justice) (1230/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21406	We arrive at the 30th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21433	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The word “generational justice” has already been strongly strengthened by the Minister of Finance in his budget speech. I have never heard as often as today the word “generational justice” from the mouth of a member of the government, entitled: Making debt is not generation-friendly, “Whoever pays today is not allowed to pay for it tomorrow, ” so generation justice. And he himself said: For me, the essential dimension of justice is generation justice. I can only underline all of this – with the one difference: That it is actually only verbal expressions on the part of the government and on the part of the Minister of Finance and that reality looks different. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Reality looks so that you always respond to current situations of problem and don't look at generation justice where it is necessary. I only point to the state of reform in the health system, where there is a lot of money, including for the future of the health system, so that it can be preserved for the next generations. I am thinking of education, of the education reform that is on ice; one is now exclusively concerned with extending all day care in schools. I am thinking of the various pension models, and the cost of the pension will explode according to this budget. I am thinking of the still overwhelming bureaucracy and the additional creation of administrative units. I am thinking of the many privileges, i.e. all things that must finally be solved, also or especially in the sense of generation justice for our subsequent generations. What do you finally do? – It is burdened by the families, the families in which those generations grow up in which those generations are cared for, which one wants to live up to in the future. There is therefore a contradiction in practice. We therefore propose that we now really set the course for genuine generation justice, that we get away from this “after me the Flood” attitude and go towards the verifiability of all policies, that we introduce an effective instrument for politics, anchor the principle of generation justice as a comprehensive sustainability concept in the federal constitution, and confirm that it also ends with empty promises, end with deceptions, end with declarations of intent, and that politicians – no matter what the colour – take on the obligation to act here and to review the impact of all the actions they place on subsequent generations. This is basically nothing new. There are some comparable countries in Europe, such as the Czech Republic, Switzerland or Poland, which already have this passport in their constitution. I cordially invite everyone, especially the colleagues from the government parties, to follow the words we hear repeatedly, and to find a constructive solution in the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21484	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21506	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haubner has made very clear what she wants to do with her request for gender equality in the Constitution; however, there are still problems that need to be considered. From the perspective of the discussion of budget development – we have seen and heard today – it cannot be that young stands against old. As long as the problem is that young and old people call each other social scrambles, they actually only play in the hands of those who do not want to compensate, but who, in part, only want to startle. But that's not our goal. When I look at the generation conflict, and I am also saying another generation conflict, because it is about the present against the future, but also a brief look into the past: Who of us could have predicted that there was such a crisis and that we also have a difficult budget to deal with?- Oh, my God! Let us also look at the current situation and the current situation of the budget from the perspective that we have to look at the present, because there could also be poor against empire, men against women, unemployed against working people or workers against the unemployed. We here in the House have the task of developing a procedure and developing a balanced procedure as well as in the budget, but of course we also have a balanced distribution for the future so that we can secure, strengthen and ultimately expand the welfare state of Austria. That is why I am convinced that we need to discuss this in more detail in the Constitutional Committee and discuss how we want to anchor it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21536	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21559	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a saying that is often used, especially in politics: Whoever has the youth has the future. And generation-righteousness is absolutely an important topic. Mrs Haubner, we have a lot to gain from your request, because today the Vice-President has also pointed out several times in his budget speech how important it is to think of the generations to come. [[Abg. Grosz: But?]] Debts are highly unsocial and also not generation-friendly, they build the future of the coming generation. [[Calls for Greens and BZÖ]] It is therefore important that we make changes in this area. We are mainly discussing certain social needs, whether in the case of pensions, or in the health field, because we need to take action here. I would also like us to address youth issues more actively. We are mostly located in the areas where there is an acute need for action, but these are rather the topics that are in the area of the elderly or the older generation. That is why I really think it is important for us to find another access here and to anchor it. Demographic development is, of course, depressing for politics. Just a number, ladies and gentlemen: The number of over 75-year-olds will double by the year 2040, growing from 700 000 to 1.4 million people. That is why, I believe, it is really necessary to move forward on this issue. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Family tax division!]] Yes, I hear ‘family tax division’. There is another proposal which was discussed earlier at the request of Mrs Kitzmüller: There is the tax-free minimum of living for careless family members – an initiative of the ÖAAB, which must be continued. We must put more emphasis on those who have children in our political activities in our political system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In total, Mrs Haubner, we consider this proposal to be very important and interesting, as I have said. I think there will be a good discussion in the Constitutional Committee, including with regard to the anchoring of these rights. In any case, we are prepared to make a generation-oriented policy in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21619	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Höbart. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21641	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! In short, in the direction of Mr Wöginger: Whoever has the youth has the future; You've recognized it completely correctly. The youth flows to the Freedom Party like no other party. We have the future, there can be You're safe! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We shall not vote for this initiative by the Freedom Party. This has a simple background, because it is inconceivable to us that a party that is a bit forward-looking or even sometimes, I would like to say, that it has a fright to call itself free, in the end, to raise the social security system in the constitutional order! In my view, this is completely incomprehensible. At the end of the day, the consequence of this initiative proposal would be that red and black could be very friendly with this request. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – Of course that’s true! - Yes, we studied him very well. [[Abg. Grosz: Not just reading, studying!]] We defend ourselves against efforts to bring functional culprits and vets into the Constitution – as happened during the last legislative period, when you were still in a great mood – unfortunately not the rest of the Republic – when the social partners were finally raised in the constitutional order. At that time you were against it, but now you are obviously trying to find a place in the government's bed. After the next election it will be over anyway, you can be sure. The Freedom Party will not agree to this initiative for these reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21698	Mr Ollinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21720	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner! Where you describe the problem in concrete terms, I can follow it; where you are talking about the word "generational justice" with which you have a problem after the Pröll-Red, I think I can no longer follow it. We Greens have long assumed from the principle that we have to hand over the earth to our descendants in such a way that they find at least the same conditions as we had and the way we leave the earth. That would be exactly what you want. Only I see it more comprehensively: The first problem is to think and develop generation-righteousness, as I interpret it, in relation to our natural life-based basis. The second point – at least in what your request describes – is already completely missing: I am of the opinion that we are not leaving the earth to our descendants in such a way that, on the one hand, a tiny percentage of the world’s population – worldwide, but also in Austria – is piled up with huge assets, while the others do not have the same opportunities as this one percent. That's the second point. This means, for me, that it is quite concretely broken down on the request: In order to continue, we need not only to create this justice in relation to the pension system, but of course also justice in terms of the development of productivity, employment opportunities, whatever. But here we fail acutely – or say a part of politics, that doesn't really concern us. Fourth point: Breaking down on the pension system you are dealing with in the core would mean: We must also, of course, apply the same to all private and semi-private pension schemes as you plan on the social pension scheme. There is currently a huge difference in how much I put on the percentage in the savings phase and how much I put on it in the so-called savings phase. Depending on how I weigh this, I damage the future generation once, or I prefer the generation already benefiting from such pension benefits. So everything in your application regarding the social pension scheme alone would be much more to be seen. In this sense, we have no problem at all to start the debate. The Greens are the first to worry about the future or future generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21777	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21798	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now it's gonna be interesting. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] As we hear, every “sustainability ” writes on the flags, but everyone has a different access to it. Today, Mr Vice-Chanzler says that sustainability is the greatest principle we need to maintain in the budget. Only: How does he handle that? Mr Wöginger goes out here and says that this request is very important and interesting, there are some concerns that you can support here. But, Mr Wöginger, we know exactly: In the next two and a half years, as long as this period runs, you will postpone this request as much as all the others of the opposition parties! It'll be like that. Mr Höbart of the FPÖ goes out and says that he does not understand a lot because, so to speak, we are raising the social partners in the constitutional order. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He does not know his own party program!]] Mr Höbart, I think you're confusing a lot. I think it would be useful if you read through your own party program. It contains just as much of generation-righteousness as it is in this proposal. That's what should make you feel comfortable. Indeed, by supplementing the Constitution in the future, federal, national and local authorities will be obliged to respect the principle of sustainability and protect the interests of future generations in their actions – and this should be so in all areas. The administration has not yet been addressed. It is not a matter of budgetary consultation, it has not yet been lost. The same applies to health care: Soon we will no longer be able to afford them. The younger generation – or every generation – has a right to trust that this sustainability exists. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The same applies to social security institutions, and also to pensions! Mr Vice-Chancellor delivered his budget speech today. Among other things, he says: “The age of access to the hacker scheme will be increased in a step to 62 years for men and 57 years for women, then gradually to 62 years.” In one step, from one minute to the other! So if you were born to New Year's Eve at 23:59 a.m., you still have access to hacker control, and the other one, born two minutes later, no longer. This is probably not the case, but it has nothing to do with sustainability at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There's something else in the arrogance. Above all, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I should like to say: There is still some work to be done in this area. I remember very well past discussions in the social field. There all things in the field of hackers were criticized. Today, this is even worse: Now you sit in the coalition and in the government and have to decide. I'm curious what'll come out. In any case, we should all work to ensure that there is a generation-righteousness in the future and that everyone can rely on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21868	No one is reporting on this. I therefore close the debate and accept Amendment 1230/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[20:08:20]] 31. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Birgit Treasure, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Consumer Credit Contracts and other forms of crediting to consumers (1265/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21910	We're now on the 31st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Honey. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e21937	Ladies and gentlemen! All three requests, which I would like to present briefly, relate to the Consumer Credit Act. The amendments are divided into three applications, so that you have the opportunity to agree to only one part later. If the whole matter were summarized in a request, he wouldn't have any chance at all with you. Content: You remember that the Consumer Credit Act was passed by you here in the house only a few months ago. In addition to the many significant improvements in our opinion, however, there were quite a few shortcomings and gaps. We have already drawn attention to this at the time. There was a very comprehensive amendment to this matter, but it was rejected by you – hardly surprisingly. These new proposals are a repeated attempt to bring the subject into debate. I would like to present these three proposals briefly. Application 447/A is intended to include small loans under a loan amount of €200 in the rules of the Consumer Credit Act. There are simply groups of people who are generally weak in income. For example, young people have a relatively low income, for them such a sum does not represent a bagatelle to be ignored. We just have a protective gap here. Their argument that the full harmonisation of the EU Directive does not allow the border to go down accordingly is not understandable; because full harmonisation says that at least €200 must be effective. Furthermore, this first request includes the requirement to include mortgage contracts in the scope of the Consumer Credit Act, because these pledges often have very high effective interest rates and would require greater protection in this area. With the second request, 448/A, we want a relative small one. It is about the need to be informed, when one closes an account, about the conditions and conditions of the overdrafting frameworks. When you open an account, you may not have a framework for overdrafting, for example, because you are a student, student et cetera. If an overdraft is granted at a later stage, the bank will no longer be obliged to provide information. We believe that this should be changed. The third request, 449/A, concerns the requirement to include mortgage loans in the right of withdrawal. This is not the case so far, has been done before the decision was taken. the consumer credit law is criticised by the Chamber of Labour and is still criticised by some institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope to have a constructive further debate in the Committee on these points – taking into account the experience that we will have in the meantime relatively new consumer credit law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22007	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Schatz, has been very committed to presenting these three requests. The objectives have been known since the decision-making of the Consumer Credit Act. I personally believe that before a revision of the Consumer Credit Act, one should wait for experience from the advisory area in order to take into account other areas of problem. Nevertheless, these applications should be dealt with very closely. I'd like to do this very briefly. On the one hand, I can gain a lot from the proposal 1267/A, which includes the inclusion of the loan contracts, but I see a problem here: For me, it is a problem that is the exception – I call it – of bagatell loans. I don't want to be misunderstood: These are loans that go up to €200. I do not know whether it is reasonable that all the protection measures of the Consumer Credit Act should also be applied in the case of such credit; for if such loans fall within the scope, credit checks must also be carried out. There is still a serious need to think about this. Personally, I can't afford that much. As regards the proposal 1266/A, which concerns the obligation to provide information, we can talk about it. I am not aware of such a problem. I therefore believe that we should wait for a time to balance these concerns with the overall problems that have arisen in the deliberations. With regard to the third request, motion 1265/A, which concerns mortgage loans, I personally have a different position from consulting experience. The main problem is not mortgage credit, but the basic business. If the mortgage loan falls within the scope of this Consumer Credit Act, one could withdraw. But you can't step back from the basic business. The basic business may be a restructuring contract or a property purchase. If one withdraws from the mortgage credit, this will result in cancellation of the basic business also involving cancellation fees, and they are relatively high. My colleague, dear, I would like to draw attention to a mistake of thought. Application 1267/A is subject to § 4 para. 4 that this section does not apply to credit contracts concluded by a country, a fund established by a country or a legal entity entrusted by a country, in accordance with the statutory rules governing the promotion of housing.’ It is precisely here, for these reasons, that a withdrawal of such a contract is excluded, because it is a matter of basic business. We also have the same problem with mortgage loans. These are my critical comments based on my consulting experience. I would think that we should seriously discuss this matter in the Committee on Justice. However, we should also try to get data from the advisory area in order to perhaps reach a greater solution to existing deficits together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22080	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22101	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss these requests again – as you have said, a repetition – very constructive and content. I do not want to go ahead with this discussion, but I would like to make two comments. First of all, a comment on the question of the procedure. Here I may bring the data back to my mind or recall: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It was discussed intensively in the Committee on Justice on 21 April 2010 – you have pointed out – on 21 April 2010. It was discussed here in the House on 11 April 2010 and decided on 11 April 2010. June 2010 – not even half a year ago – it entered into force. The question arises whether it makes sense to submit here again applications which have already been discussed, with which we have already discussed content, but which we have different positions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] – Mrs Colleague, I do not agree with you on the right. You have the right, of course, to make the same requests over and over again. You must not be surprised if we sometimes delay applications in other areas, because we have just had the experience that when we reject them, applications will be submitted again at the next meeting. [[New call of the abg. May. Honey.]] It's similar to me now. We discussed this. We have come to different beliefs in these individual areas than you have. But how much sense does it make if we now deal with the same issues every half year or every three months? I think there are enough other issues that we could deal with. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make a comment on the content – not on individual areas, we will discuss this, but on the general question: On the one hand, we are trying to protect consumers, citizens and citizens more and more, on the other hand, we are depressing them. My approach is to clarify another approach, namely private autonomy, independent thinking, self-determination, strengthening, informing. This would be the right approach – instead of building up more and more of supposed protection here and thus giving consumers the illusion: You are always and everywhere protected, you can sign anything without thinking, you can certainly withdraw from it sometime. That is the wrong approach for me. In this way, we are rather leading people to smoothness, rather than informing them to teach them more independence and to give them the autonomy that they owe to them in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22169	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I can follow Mr Donnerbauer's remarks. In Austria, we should not build a consumer protection system that creates US-American conditions, i.e. if companies, banks, insurance companies did not warn accordingly in advance and draw different systems parallel, then the citizen can withdraw with various possibilities, be protected and so on. However, there is already something on this particular point, which is why I also believe in a law that was decided only a few months ago to make a change after half a year, namely if I insist that there is something that should be changed if there is a need for change. I don't know if we already have this experience in the various advisory offices of the Chamber of Workers, the VKI in Vienna and so on. We know for ourselves, for example, if someone has had a variety of private experiences, because in the credit sector there are a number of black sheep in the consulting sector, which advises on our own. There is quite a need, but if it is given in quantity and width, I dare to doubt it at present. I would therefore say that we should be discussing this quite positively and constructively, particularly the 1265/A proposal relating to mortgage credit. Applications 1266/A and 1267/A can be accepted with minor amendments. One should discuss this very constructively. On Amendment 1265/A, on the right of withdrawal from the mortgage loan, I see similar problems as Mr Maier. I am looking forward to appropriate discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22225	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl, I know you like to hear me talk from the speaker's desk. This is certainly a good opportunity to do so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this first reading of the Consumer Credit Act, I must say: Mr Donnerbauer, of course one has the opportunity to argue why so many opposition applications are postponed, for example because one has one or the other. However, they postpone any request of the opposition anyway, that is a fact, no matter who he is, whether he is of the FPÖ, whether he is of the Greens or of the BZÖ. It's like that once! [[Abg. Amon: That's not true at all!]] That's the way it is. However, the fact is that the Consumer Credit Act excludes the right of withdrawal of mortgage loans. - That's the problem. If there is a government template that corrects this, then I have nothing against it. In any case, this should be comprehensible and comprehensible in the sense of the consumer. The right of withdrawal in the Austrian Consumer Credit Act is governed by other consumer protection rules. It would be important for a correction to be implemented, no matter what form it takes. Put in a government proposal or request from the coalition parties, Mr Donnerbauer! If we can get something out of the request, we will also agree with it on the part of the opposition. Mrs Schander, I assume that if it is in the sense of all of us, then we will do the same. Otherwise, however, every request of the opposition is defiant, no matter who it comes from. That's a sad fact. This is not a way of dealing with each other in this Parliament, so take this practice into account in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22305	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 1265/A to the Committee on Justice. [[20:24:14]] 32. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Birgit Treasure, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Consumer Credit Contracts and other forms of crediting to consumers (1266/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22344	We're now going to the 32nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. – No one is reported in the word. I therefore close the debate and grant the request 1266/A to the Committee on Justice. [[20:24:46]] 33. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Birgit Treasure, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Consumer Credit Contracts and other forms of crediting to consumers (1267/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22386	Finally, we come to 33. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. – No one is reported in the word. I therefore close the debate immediately and grant request 1267/A to the Committee on Justice. [[20:25:18]] Vote on agenda items 22 and 23
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22420	We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda items 22 and 23, which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's requests. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. With regard to the draft law in 994 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Members Dr. Lichtenecker, colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the proposal for a Federal Act to refer the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and the Energy Control Act to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs again in 994 of the Supplements. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law to adopt the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act and the Energy Control Act in 994 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Haubner, Mr Katzian, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. Mr Widmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, Mr President, on the introduction of a new Z7 in Art. 1 § 4 zur Inhalt. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1 § 36 and § 69. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Sections 76, 80, 81 and 82 of the Government template. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who join these parts of the bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Katzian, and others on the introduction of a new paragraph. 3 in Art. 1 § 113. I am looking for those members of the House who speak for it to be a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Katzian, Mr Peter Haubner, and others on the revision of the GWG in connection with the implementation of the 3rd framework programme. EU internal market package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 138.) We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and operation of the natural gas pipeline in the territory of the Republic of Austria, in 928 of the supplements, to be approved in accordance with Article 50(1) Z 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:31:19]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00086_d7e22579	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1356/A(E) to 1364/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 7011/J to 7031/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mr Werner Herbert, ladies and gentlemen, has been put to the President of the National Council: 52/JPR. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.32 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
