ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5393	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of the 80. ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. In October 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Schickhofer, Ing. Hofer and Mag. Jarmer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5424	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich and the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Norbert Darabos is represented by the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Finance Vice Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. I announce that this meeting will be transferred live by ORF by 10.45 a.m. until the end of the current hour. [[09:07:32]] Address by the President on the occasion of the commemoration of the 1. National Council meeting 90 years ago on 10. November 1920
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5491	Ladies and gentlemen. Mein Ladies and gentlemen listeners at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! Before we start today's discussions, I can remind you of a special event: 90 years ago, the Federal Constitutional Act was passed, and the National Council met for the first time. Before that, intensive deliberations of the parties represented at the National Assembly took place throughout the summer. The result of this work was a draft text for a Federal Constitutional Act, which was presented to the plenary. For two days in the plenary session, the last meeting of the National Constitutional Assembly on 1st reading was a violent debate before the 102th session of the Constitutional Assembly. In October 1920 the Federal Constitutional Act was finally passed unanimously at third reading. ==References== The law entered into force on 1 November 1920 at the first meeting of the new National Council, which was formed in accordance with the new provisions. That was our reason. In principle, it is the democratic, the republican, the federal, the rule of law and the principle of force. I would like to expressly mention another point of the federal constitution from 1920: The Constitutional Court has received comprehensive and exemplary legal review competences for many other countries. With the provisions on constitutional jurisdiction, the Austrian Federal Constitution has set international standards. Without adding all the elements from 1920 here, it can be summarized that the federal constitution lays down the rules of the game for the action of state institutions and is thus the most important basis for the functioning of our state, for our state structure is anchored in it. Thus, tasks and competences as well as rights and obligations of all state bodies are defined, and they are, of course, binding on all. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have allowed myself to distribute the Stenographical Protocols and thus the records of the debates of the meetings that took place at that time. You will find that many discussion points and questions of the time are still up-to-date and partly incomplete. I quote the then rapporteur Dr. ==References== In September 1920 the negotiations began and I quote: “The Constitutional Committee itself, namely the members of all parties, was probably aware that our draft Constitutional Treaty contains shortcomings of not little weight, which go beyond the character of mere flaws of beauty. In particular, there is a great lack that this draft federal constitution law has very significant gaps.” – citations. The rapporteur said that no agreement was reached between the parties in the field of fundamental rights. Thus, the state basic law had to be applied from 1867. At the time, therefore, no consensus could be found on a catalogue of fundamental and freedom rights. To date, as you know, nothing has changed, although some attempts have been made, for example in the context of the Austrian Convention. The distribution of competence in the financial sector and in school issues remained unresolved, which was only regulated years and decades later. Therefore, if we regularly and repeatedly discuss federalism, the redistribution of tasks and competences, and thus a federal reform of the state, these are all areas which were at the heart of the debate 90 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1920, the Austrian federal constitution has already experienced numerous innovations. One essential thing was that in 1929. This innovation brought, among other things, innovations in an area which is also on the agenda at today's meeting, exactly at today's meeting, namely the expansion of the Court of Auditors' competences. – Moreover, 1929 extended the deadline for the draft budget by the Federal Government from eight to ten weeks. Another major step in the history of the Federal Constitution was Austria's accession to the European Union, which was an overall change to the Constitution 75 years after its first entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Constitutional Law is of very high quality. In its clear language it is a very good foundation for Austria. I believe that this high quality requires reorientation and further development in order to maintain this standard for the future. Necessary Changes However, the federal constitution must always be considered well; day-to-day calls or simple convenience are simply not in place here. I am convinced that we all agree that a state reform aimed at improving efficiency and effectiveness and promoting quality and transparency would benefit all citizens. And I am also convinced that such a reform can only be successful if it is guided by sensitivity and sense of state. Just as at the time, 90 years ago, the Members of Parliament took on great responsibility when they set the most important points for a democratic co-existence for Austria, so this responsibility is probably at all times. This requires political reason and respect for our constitution. – Thank you! [[General condolences.]] [[9:14]] [[09:14:33]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5567	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “SOS family! Youth and families as victims of a reformless federal government’ Mr Klubobmann Bucher is the first to speak. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5595	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to a current hour of the future alliance Austria! I will begin with a quote from the Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor Josef Pröll, who in July 2009 said: “We are talking about a package that the Second Republic has not yet seen.” I have never been as agreed with Mr Pröll as with this statement he made, ladies and gentlemen, because – for the first time he receives our agreement in this regard – he is: This package is about horrors, not to overdo injustices, and therefore sad for those affected! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is the sad result of years of refusal of work, because it is really about the fact that it was foreseeable that we were in financial bottlenecks in 2009, 2010. We have known since 2008 that the bank rescue package, which has required guarantees and liabilities in total of €100 billion, actually burdened the budget with €10 billion – quite contrary to the first brief statements of the then chancellor Gusenbauer, who meant that this bank package was a business for the taxpayer; it is not a business, but it is a burden on the taxpayer! – that in this year, the rescue of Greece and the financing of the euro rescue shield have faced new financial challenges. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, it was foreseeable for the Federal Government, and therefore also for the Minister of Finance, that at some point the money will go out and that sometime for these aid actions – on the one hand for the banks and on the other for the rescue of the euro – the bill will be paid. It was not surprising, therefore, but it was It is absolutely clear and foreseeable that the money will be missing in the cash register at the latest this year and that it has been neglected by the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government to make timely provision for this situation to occur, namely that all those who are asked for the bank's rescue, for the suspension of the economic and financial market crisis, and for the saving of the euro, ladies and gentlemen, will not be able to do anything at all, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then: Neither the families nor the more socially weak, nor the needy Austrians at all, are to be held responsible for what this Federal Government has been staggering, ladies and gentlemen. That is why it is grotesk and almost perverse what this Federal Government has now put together on burdens, which load package has been tied here in a Husch-Fuch-Action. Everything was done wrong: It is unfair, it is unsocial and it is unnecessary, in the first place, what this Federal Government is presenting here in the form of taxes and tax increases. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This package is unnecessary, and that is not what we are saying on our own, because – I am addressing this question in particular to the ÖVP, to the economists – how is it that an economic and economic representative and President of the Chamber of Commerce Leitl comes to write us a letter of opposition to challenge us, to control this tax package, to finance a campaign with the compulsory membership contributions of all the economic operators of our country and thus to go to the public and fight this package? Dear business allies within the ÖVP, we will test here in this House, and then we will see what measure you stand for: whether you are behind the Chamber of Commerce initiative or whether you will stand behind the people of our country, ladies and gentlemen? It won't save you, it's up to you! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is insolent and shameless and fits very well into the chaopolitik brand Pröll, who has said for weeks that he wants to reoccupy the State Secretariat for Family, which he has not done. And now one hears from Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner that this new Secretary of State will not be faced with the new burdens at all, because it is basically not necessary for them to do so. – Then what do we need a Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen? I wonder! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What do we need a super-practice, which is not at all available to families in our country, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] This is the Chaopolitik brand Pröll! This is not just about the debt vice, because Pröll stands for debt making in our country, both in Lower Austria and at the federal level, and I wonder why the Minister of Finance is now re-introducing money for Marode countries in Brussels, for example for Ireland, Portugal and Spain. Ladies and gentlemen! We have always warned that the barrel is groundless, and said that we should look to a core Europe and to a euro zone that is homogeneous, so that we are able to overcome this economic crisis, too, instead of promoting Marode countries with the money needed there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at what Mr Finanzminister said to the public in order to reorganise and consolidate the budget. He came with his famous brand “60 to 40”, i.e. 60 percent Savings and 40 percent tax increases. Today, because of this load package, we see that it meant 60 percent savings in real terms, reduction in benefits, namely, reductions in benefits compared to the weaker, the needy, and the families in our country. This is quite a penalty for the service providers, for the middle class and especially for the families! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's a criminal action when you get these people the 13. Family allowances are reduced or the multi-children's supplement deleted! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the family is actually the germ cell of our society. In this context, we are talking about the centrepiece of the Republic. We should be aware of this and become clear! If the Austrian People's Party makes cuts in this area, it will become the anti-family party of our country and become the burden party of our country. In fact, it is because it is responsible for the huge debt mountain that has been stormed up here in recent years and decades. They have been in constant government responsibility for 24 years and can be responsible for constantly increasing the burden of debt, not stealing from it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister of Economic Affairs, as Minister of Economic Affairs, you should know that the families of the economic factor are one, because families cannot save or speculate money, but the families are the consumer number one in our Republic, and therefore they are enormously important for the economy. Young families are dependent on support, and family support is not alms, but compensation for a valuable service to society, child care and care for those in need within their own family. Let's be aware of this: If all these services were to be provided by the State, it would be very expensive for us to do so, at least much more expensive than the families of the Republic to do this service! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we are quite clear about this load package! We are in favour of the introduction of privatisations, we are in favour of reform being finally undertaken and not always being pushed to the long bank. We are in favour of finally accepting pensions that we will solve the care problem that comes to us in the next few years through the aging of society. There is no way around us, ladies and gentlemen, that we do the state administration, which we do not spare! Even though we now have a 2% economic growth, this does not save us. There is no way past the reforms! Ladies and gentlemen! Consider the ÖBB, which costs taxpayers € 7 billion per year and which are owned by SPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you already own a company, then buy the ÖBB and then you also take responsibility once, but do not burden the taxpayer with €7 billion! That is unfair and unjust! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These Federal Governments and these Finance Ministers failed to meet their own expectations with the draft budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5770	Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to the preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5802	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can certainly join the finding – and we can also read emails and protests in other ways – that it is really sad that we are forced to make cuts in connection with families, and I also agree with you that the family is the germ cell of our society. That we are forced to cuts is anything but pleasant! On the other hand, Mr Bucher, you have also mentioned that the debt problem should be solved. It is therefore important, in my view, that we maintain the state's ability to act in this area and that we are capable of having a differentiated debate. You have often mentioned the year 2008 and the economic crisis, and I say to you: In this context, the problem has arisen! Why did the problem arise in this context? – You were even in the decision-making process! In the years 2008 and 2009, we decided on measures in the area of family, around 2009 the introduction of the child allowance of € 220 per child per year, the increase in the amount of child drop-off to € 58.40 or the deductibility of child care costs up to € 2 300 per child per year. This tax reform alone cost us € 510 million! In addition, we have 1. In January 2008, the brother-in-law rating increased, the resulting cost of €27 million. ==References====External links== September 13th, September 13th. Family aid, which in turn caused costs of € 254 million. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, we have in 2008 – move back to the time around 24. September!, of an economic crisis was not the talk – in the expectation that we can afford all this, additional €980 million per year – in addition per year! – decided for families. Then the economic crisis came, and in the economic crisis, revenue went down. FLAF is over-indebted with almost €5 billion. It is not right for me to be able to transfer funds from the Koralm area or other areas, where we are nevertheless hard to finance, from law to FLAF. The FLAF is maastrichtrelevant, is financed by the contributions of entrepreneurs and is to be sustainable to rehabilitate. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need to do now is unpleasant for each individual, but look at it in the direction of abroad! Let us see what the other countries need to do in the area of budget adjustment! [[Abg. Bucher: Reforms are under way in the other countries!]] Let me give you a few examples: In Germany there are restrictions on parental allowance, Ireland reduces maternity allowance, child allowance and family allowance, Spain abolishes baby premium, Great Britain removes child allowance, or there are restrictions in the amount of amortisation, in the Czech Republic the birth allowance is only available for the first-born child. – Save me to read all this! However, it should make you think about this and point out that other countries too are forced to reorganise accordingly in order to maintain their capacity for the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] They're talking about the youth: The future capacity of young people is to be maintained, because anyone has to pay these benefits too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] – Someone is the youth, Mr. Strache! Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to doing something, I would ask for a differentiated discussion. Despite the savings, we exceed the level of 2008 and 2008 was a year of high economy. If it is also claimed that we are behind the others and there is now an attack on the families, then I must say: That is not to be justified at all! This is an exaggeration of the special class! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the whole thing is now being dealt with by accident, and if we are asked when this happened to us at all, I will tell you: These cuts were decided by Parliament in May of 2010! We have to do this now. We only have achievements, and therefore unfortunately we can only start with the services! [[Abg. Bucher: Who decided?]] Now there is the opportunity – Mr Bucher, please listen to me! – to cut through all over it accordingly. We have not done this because we have seen that there is little room for movement in families and especially in the area of school-based children. That is why a total of 1.8 million members of family aid are affected as much as 900 000 people. I would like to say in the discussion: This is more than in 2008! 900 000 are not affected, and this money you have mentioned can be used for the family and for the economy. The second point is the question: Where do we go? – The area of the 24- to 26-year-olds is problematic, because it is argued that when people started their studies, they were confident that certain services would be provided. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2008, there were also the tuition fees, and in 2008, there were not many of the services I mentioned. For the State, there is also no principle of trust and no protection against certain revenue falling in the crisis. The state is faced with this, and the state has to clean it up. That is why I am making an international comparison, where aid is still available up to this age. There are these in one or two countries, and there too this is very differentiated; otherwise these aid ends at the age of 19. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be deceived either. For example, look at the 2010 report on the social situation of students! This says that at the age of 25, 70 percent of students work about 20 hours. This means that the aid is not a study aid. If you're socially affected, you'll get a scholarship. Therefore, we should also look at this differently and perhaps turn the discussion around and ask ourselves whether this is really a claim and someone would take something or whether this aid at this age – including with regard to international comparison – is still at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The FPÖ has repeatedly been claimed – I do not know if it will come back today – that we are paying family allowances abroad, for example in Turkey or elsewhere. – That’s wrong! There has been no such thing since 1996. It's not like families here get kids, then leave and we pay. This is true in the EU, but not otherwise. - That on this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Further calls.]] - We don't pay! I'd like to give you the proof, Mr. Strache. The third point in this context is the multi-child supplement. This is a problematic matter, and that is what we are doing in the rounds. However, in the light of the many e-mails, I noticed that many people have confused the sibling season with the multi-child supplement. I have looked at what we have in terms of subsidies, allowances and deposits: In total, it is partly 30, and these are totally inconspicuously divided between countries and the federal government. We must therefore ensure that there is in fact a certainty of family policy and its performance. We must do this task. This need has shown this debate, and I think it is not a mistake to accept this problem once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are we doing now? – We look at the rounds and consider what is possible in the range of 24 to 26-year-olds. There are studies that take longer. It is entitled to receive the corresponding coverage for the minimum study period. We'll see what happens to the multi-child supplement. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we will also be careful to ensure constitutionality. So that you don't confuse this: That is a tax issue. The whole thing is therefore an unpleasant issue at all three levels, but I cannot reorganise the Family Taxation Fund from other areas and make it possible to function, but this is only possible in the area of the Fund itself. That's what I'm actually doing, ladies and gentlemen. If you are sparking “SOS Youth!” and “SOS Family!” I would ask you: Take a different look at the matter! Check whether our situation in 2008, a high-economy year in which we are better off than most other European countries, is really entitled to say that there is now an attack on the families as a whole! The functioning of the system does not mean leaving young people the payment of their debts in the future, but rather rehabilitating them now and being operational. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] - Please? [[Abg. Street: Why has the ÖVP, which has been in the government for 24 years, made only debts?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Strache, you are blaming us that we would have made such debts in the crisis! [[Abg. Strache: You've been making debts for 24 years!]] You can also compare internationally. In an economic crisis, let me speak out! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] In an economic crisis, it is a fact that debt is growing. [[Live calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] On the other hand, it makes sense – you can read that on the old keynes – that if the economy is getting back on track, the debt will also have to be adjusted. For 24 years, we have made sure that we are among the three to four best states in the international comparison. You should see that and not just the problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have lower re-indebtedness than the other countries, and the international comparison makes us sure. Look for Ireland, look for Spain, look for Portugal! Acting now ensures the ability of the State of Austria to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5974	I now draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants of the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e5999	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The topic is the future budget of the state budget, but it is already talking about savings in the family policy field. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I know the problem areas that arise from it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are drops of wormwood. I too have concerns, and it does not make me happy to discuss some of the measures. Ladies and gentlemen, how does the specific situation look like? – According to the first draft, there will be savings in expenditure on the total budget of 1.7 percent. This is compared with additional revenue of around €7 billion by 2014: through contributions from banks, corporations and speculators. The basis was the eight-point programme of social democracy. These changes are about maintaining and continuing to guarantee Austrian family support in the broadest sense. The total amount of benefits and cash benefits for families in Austria is around €9.5 billion. This sum can be seen, is of great importance and also lasts every comparison. I have also followed your statements, Mr Federal Minister, with satisfaction and highest interest. It should be noted that there should be a turnaround and also a correction in future family policy. More attention should be paid to investment in property and infrastructure services for families. This has been repeatedly called upon by us to ensure a balance between cash and benefits in kind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, we will take you to the floor. That is why I would like to ask you in particular whether the new budget provides for the further expansion of kindergartens and childcare facilities and whether funds are available for them. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that only through a dense network of crabhouses and kindergartens, up to parents' children's centers, can the compatibility of child and work for young women and men be facilitated and – which is very important to me – can be guaranteed both the opportunities and the promotion of all children. Ladies and gentlemen, despite political persuasion, we cannot ignore international relations and comparisons, as I mean. We need to look over the edge of the plate. We talk and discuss a wealth of individual support measures for families and children, which over the years have been constantly supplemented and improved by governments. I would like to mention some of you: free last kindergarten year, income-dependent children's allowance, free schoolbooks, school-free ride, mother-child-pass examinations, and a wide range of counseling facilities for children and families. – These are just a few points of Austrian funding. We do not, however, come to discuss the structures of the FLAF, that fund, Mr. Federal Minister, who is financed and fed by the workers and partly also by the employers. They have pointed out that FLAF, the family compensation fund, has a minus, and we therefore need to look at who pays what when and who benefits from it. I would like to focus briefly on the initiative and campaign of the Minister for Women: “Real men go in Karenz” – a further step and key to more equal opportunities in Austria, a first step in the public service, which is to be a model and impulse for the private sector. [[Abg. Bucher: These are the “superrich ones, ” the families!]] Summary and return to this current hour: Ladies and gentlemen, the budget proposals and accompanying laws are currently under consideration, opinions, solutions and alternative proposals will be discussed at parliamentary level, and I am pleased that corrections and improvements will be possible. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Family support in Austria, Mr Collegue, has a long tradition. [[Abg. Bucher: Today it is over!]] Its great importance and importance are known to all of us. But it is equally important to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the incomes of people in Austria are designed and measured in such a way that a life, a family life is basically possible and worth living. Family and child support must be complementary and balanced. We will work together for this and continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6063	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. - Please. - Oh, excuse me! It was turned over. I only have the correction on the screen now. This has changed in the last seconds on my list. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a symbol of the state of the ÖVP!]] Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6095	Madam President. Federal Minister! Of course, in times like this, it is legitimate for stakeholders to express their views on family associations and articulate their concerns. I would like to start at the starting point, namely: The government debt or the interest of the public debt alone amounts to € 8 million. 8 billion €! [[Abg. Street: 8 million? 8 billion!]] [[Calls: Billions]] [[Abg. Strache:... not even an economic competence again!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In any event, the amount of interest corresponds to the amount spent annually by the State on education. And precisely because the ÖVP sees the children and the families at the centre, we spend €6.5 billion on family benefits, of which €3.5 billion is in the family aid. We are clear that it is painful in times like this, of course, to make cuts also in the family sector. We do not do this without having thought about it for a long time, but we try to link a budget in the sense of our children, in the sense of the future generation, which is sustainable and ensures that the boys of today will also have a promising life. [[Abg. Strache: We will soon no longer have children if we continue to do so!]] At this point it must be mentioned that the family budget remains at the forefront of the international comparison. The benefits for families will still remain at the level of prior to 2008, that is, before the economic crisis, after the now planned savings. That means that we are still at the top of Europe. This should not be an argument for turning away from it now, but it is important that the population is aware of it. The concerns of the family associations are to be taken seriously – as a result, discussions have also been held. There may be rounds there and there, as has been said many times. One thing I would also like to mention at this point: I consider the initiative of the BZÖ or this signature action to be – politically – not a major challenge, as not a big throw, because five points to write down five points, whereas one is not a political achievement. [[Abg. Petzner: Even ÖVP mayors signed that!]] [[ongoing calls at FPÖ and BZÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Strache: Family policy deletions and burdens...!]] I would have expected a party here in the House to make positive proposals, to make other proposals, as it believes, that the budget can be designed to ensure that funding is future-proof. – And the Federal Government is doing this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Exporting family benefits, that's it!]] I think that in recent weeks and months, our Minister of Finance has been able to put forth a great deal of effort to propose reasonable measures, to take necessary measures, in any case to avoid also cases of hardship – and this is what we are talking about. [[Abg. Hagen: Administrative reform!]] Every politician here in the House should think about how to deal responsibly with the resources for our future. But that's not exactly what the BZÖ is doing – that's what it's proposing! [[Abg. Hagen: Administrative reform!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Such a thing is unbearable!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] I think that a good solution has also been reached in the sense of the young people, the students through an agreement between Minister Karl and Finance Minister Pröll. [[Call to the BZÖ: This is a youth representative?- Oh, my God!]] The fact that the beneficiaries of the study aid do not have to waive the family allowance that mothers or pregnant women, or those who have performed the service or civil service, receive recognition, is good. There will still be a need to discuss how those studies look out, where structurally, there will be a longer duration of study, such as medical studies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would also like to point out that in 2009, in the context of the tax reform, we only reduced the burden on families by €500 million. That is to say, all those who now claim that the EIA would dissociate themselves from the families are mistaken, because we have introduced a more flexible childcare allowance, increased the amount of earnings and finally made agreements with the countries for better childcare. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] [[Abg. Kickl: betrayed and sold the families of you!]] These are the facts that we have created, and I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6334	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6355	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Values Advisors! I am astounded and really moved to tears in view of how this is being tried or how here – to speak in your language – is turned around in order to bring these monsterities into the right light. I have to reject that! They are simply saving in the wrong places in that country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I give you the right that our government budget, the state of affairs, should be renovated – but not on the back of the families, not at the expense of the heart of our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But – quite the contrary – once again those who keep our Republic alive in the truest sense of the word – I have just spoken about the heart of our Republic – are asked to the cash register: the trainees, the service providers of our society and the families. And that can and must not be true, we must stop that! Ladies and gentlemen – and I have to say this: from this lay-player team that today calls itself government! They do not really mean that they want to sell this budget to the Austrians. In fact, this budget can only be referred to as a "merciful budget" - I come to speak later on - and we will say a clear no to these budget templates, because it is a source of monsterity, irregularities and injustices. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is for us that German Chancellor Faymann and the Duo Pröll/Pröll are responsible for the paralysis of this Republic and are ultimately responsible for this “budget of horrors”. I would like to put Mr Pröll's head of state here today into play, because in the end he is the chairman of the national's national chief executive conference. We could see how Pröll, head of state Pröll, has intervened in the budget discussions, and that is really a scandal of the upper class. Why paralysis of the Republic? – There is no urgent need for structural reforms; their need will simply be removed from the table. We need to talk today about an incredible administrative dixtery in our Republic. The “Kurier” spoke about the “irresence of administration” a few days ago – I will show you this issue. The “Kurier” in this case brings it to the point: This article sets out the inefficiencies and grotesques, and it says that there is enough potential for reform in health, in education, we could use modern instruments in administrative activities. But all this isn't a topic, it's not even really going to be remembered. Now to the so-called budget of horrors. I would like to remind you once again of what is planned: The multi-child supplement will fall away. That means that the ÖVP has failed completely from our point of view as a family party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will be the 13th. Family allowances are reduced to the so-called school start-up allowance. The family allowance is paid short. Mineral oil tax will be increased, which again burdens the commuters – those who scratch the sleeves in the early days, go to work and do something for this republic. This is absolutely unfair from our point of view. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Kerosin...!]] I would like to give you the example – this was done to me – of a six-member family that has calculated that this family has an additional burden of almost €2,000 a year. [[Abg. Booker: That's far too little!]] I can then point this to my speech, including the whole community tax increase. Almost €2,000 for a six-member family! And this family rightly asks: What have we actually broken, that we have to take on such monsterities?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are always told that there is no money and that is why taxes in particular have to be increased. In this context, I would like to recall the billions of aid to Greece. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. There was the ÖVP fleet!]] Greece, a beautiful country, but corrupt and misguided. Our Republic is making Greece billions available. Hundreds of millions of family aid to Turkey, I quote “Today”: “Family aid for 200,000 foreigners!” – you say it’s wrong, please correct it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: This is wrong!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Also a “quality newspaper”!]] The compensation allowances to EU citizens – we know today that family benefits are often not spent in the country, but are exported, and against this we defend ourselves! Finally – and you know that too – prominent representatives of red and black are openly acting against this budget. For example Brigitte Jank says: "It is hard to criticise that the draft budget is not accompanied by any reforms. The developed prosperity simmers in the rest of the structures.’ Androsch also rightly criticises this budget. I would also like to inform you briefly of the decision of the Vorarlberger Landtage: “The Vorarlberger Landtag is advocating the withdrawal of the savings package in the areas of family and care provided for in the 2011 budget.” If you insist that the population is rightly opposed to this insanity, against this family-political insanity, then you want to calm down, round off. . I hope that this federal government will eventually finally be discharged into Nirwana, because it would have deserved it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ will vote against this budget with all vehemence, because in the end we do not want to take note of the scrapping of our service providers and our families. You can be sure that we will be here on the side of the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6487	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6510	Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, especially this family budget, cannot be outnumbered in shortsightedness and absolutely unworthy from a social point of view – and this is also true of your speech, Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Your speech, Mr Minister, contained only a correct statement, namely the statement: It is not an attack on the families as a whole. – Yes, that’s true, because that’s not an attack on all families, no attack on those families that are your clients, the well and better-earned families, but it’s an attack on all families affected by poverty that have low incomes. It is an attack on those families that have more children and are thus already exposed to a higher risk of poverty. It is an attack on all those young people and students, but also apprentices who have the problem, not knowing what their next income will be, how high it will be, who will not know if they will get a job that will not know what they will live on next month. These people are very likely to be attacked. But this only continues what you have already started with the family relief package 2008 which you just quoted and wanted to celebrate here again. We told you at the time: This family relief package has not relieved all families, but it has relieved the well and better-earned families, but it has been forgotten about those families that are not well-deserved and are among the low income classes. And what are you doing now? – Take now You return benefits from this family relief package, but you do not take back those benefits that have benefited the well-earned and better-earned families, but those that have benefited the weakest and the poor: Multi-child supplement and 13. Family aid is to be abolished. One point that we can win a lot of content is the removal of the single-earner discount rate for childless couples. That's quite a point where you have to say: This is not only a matter of family politics, but above all a matter of women's policy. But in all other areas, you are doing absolutely unbalanced socially. Against this background, of course, we were pleased that you, Mr. Minister, have announced medially that you are planning to rethink the family benefits and to "turn" money into infrastructure. What? However, they have forgotten that many of these benefits are not federal benefits but national benefits. And I very much hope that you will take it very seriously with your announcement that you will also have an influence on your colleagues in the municipalities and on your colleagues in the other federal states, i.e. your party colleagues, because there is sometimes a decision as to whether kindergartens will be extended, whether there is afternoon care for the children, whether they will invest in school infrastructure. [[Abg. Großruck: And municipalities!]] It is clear that only investments in infrastructure offer the opportunity to really invest in the education of our children, to invest here in a sustainable way. If you bring federal or national comparisons here, I must tell you that you have not told the whole truth here, because there are certainly countries that make it to us, both within Austria and outside Austria. For example, Germany is taking 13 billion more to invest in education, in afternoon care, in childcare, in schools, in school equipment, in order to invest exactly in the future of this country, in this case of Germany. Vienna, too, has now gone a different way under green government participation. Vienna has accepted the poverty of children, Vienna has determined the expansion of childcare places, Vienna has determined the expansion of afternoon care places, and Vienna has set itself as one of the main objectives to stop child poverty. [[Abg. Head: When?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And in this context, it is immensely important to once again highlight your statement of investment in infrastructure. Again, the appeal to you: If you really think this is serious, you must also convince your colleagues in the other federal states! One last thing: This budget has not only been presented unconstitutionally because it has been presented late, but it also shows once again a political approach which is not ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] If you have cuts here, if you intend to save very massively on certain groups, then it would be appropriate to enter into a dialogue with these groups before proposing these plans – and not only now where there is massive protest. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There is supposed to be a family summit on Friday, to which not all groups are invited again, but only certain, an absolutely opaque summit. The participants still have no written invitation, nor do they know who everyone will be there – and who will be missing there, we are parliamentarians. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] The government is here making a summit with the representatives of the institutions, of which we do not know which it is, but to decide is the budget...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6585	Madam honourable Member, you are going over your speaking time. Your 5 minutes have expired, I'll let you say half a sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6600	And in this sense, I hope that the family summit will bring what it is supposed to bring: a socially worthy budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6628	Mrs Haubner has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6649	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! “SOS family” is a call for help, is an auxiliary call of 1.8 million families in Austria, who are simply taken away in an unprecedented load action €400 million! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But “SOS family” is also a very successful citizens’ initiative, which, together with family organisations, family future Austria and the BZÖ, has created a very successful action in which more and more people are signing. And because my colleague, Fuhrmann, criticized the fact that there is only one thing we are against: Mrs Colleagues, you have not read it exactly! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Some ÖVP mayors in Upper Austria have read very carefully and then signed, because that is what it says: [[OBJECTIVES]] “We demand savings in administration and politics and not on the back of children!” That's the clear signal we're giving here. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Krainer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At a time when the desire for children is present, but the reality shows that fewer and fewer children are born, such a package is incomprehensible, unsocial and anti-future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the red and black government, you have failed with this budget – not only with the family budget, but with the family budget in particular – as a future designer! The ÖVP has resigned as a family party. And if the former National Council President Khol says that the family policy of recent years has failed, I say that you as ÖVP have failed: your election promises and your Sunday speeches. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Failed, Not Failed!]] It is useless if Vice-chanc Pröll introduces a new Secretary of State and says that she is a strong voice for the families when the Minister of Economic and Family says at the same time that she does not have much to talk about because she comes only when it is all under the roof and subject. So I ask here again: What, then, do we need a new family secretary? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, as a party, which always takes the values fair, just and socially into its mouth, has failed as well. I'm asking: What is fair and fair if one saves € 318 million on the care allowance when taking away the poorest of the poor when fewer people get the care allowance that is not enough now to buy all the benefits that are necessary? We therefore call on the BZÖ to: Take They finally seriously worry about the families, but also about those of the older generation! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Do not constantly cash off with the families instead of saving on the system! Do you know that there are already 240 000 children in Austria who are already living in relative poverty? Do you know that the multichild families are really particularly affected by these cuts and that this can account for up to €4,000 a year? Do you really want the poor to get more and more poorer and the hard-working ones? – We do not want this from the BZÖ, because the families are not alms recipients, but the families are the service providers of our society! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You pay €19 billion of taxes annually in the general pot – this performance has to be provided once! – and they get back in about €6 billion of transfers from FLAF. If you, Mr Federal Minister, now say that FLAF has to be rehabilitated and the first step is to reduce performance, then that is the wrong way! Because that FLAF needs to be renovated, you know, we all know that for a very long time. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] One could have considered what new funding flows could look like, how to remove non-family benefits. There's nothing on the table about that. They go the easiest way and say: Let's strike 400 million €, and then the FLAF is renovated! – This is not our way, and we will certainly not agree to it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As BZÖ, we will continue to be a lobby for the families, for their concerns and concerns, so that the family is still viable and viable in the future, and that family benefits are above all guaranteed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] And we will continue to stand for a policy that invests where the future is: Future is in families, future is in education, future is in research. And we will stand for saving where it is absolutely necessary: in the case of no longer modern structures in the field of education, in the field of the health system, but also in the far too large and superfluous political bodies. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I ask you: Finally do something for the families, do something for the people in this country and leave the anti-family course!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6774	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6795	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Musiol – she is no longer in the hall. I am pleased to hear from the Greens positive sounds on Vienna's municipal policy, on urban policy. That's a new feeling. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP as well as intermediate calls for the Greens.]] I am pleased about this, but I wanted to point out to you that the development of childcare, the further development of the education system, the fight against poverty, that in recent years, all of this has been important priorities of Vienna's policy, social-democratic policy, and not least because it is, and this is very important now, common goals and there is also a joint political project in Vienna. I hope very much for five years in Vienna and look forward to the meaningful important projects that we will undertake together in Vienna! [[Abg. That's a threat!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But back to the federal budget. Of course, there are more pleasant political times for all of us, of course saving is making decisions on savings measures for all of us a more difficult political challenge. We all would prefer to take additional measures, additional support for families as well. We do not always agree on what measures are useful, but such conflicts are, of course, more politically pleasing than to ask where the savings fund needs to be set up; that is not a question. Criticism is of course the right of opposition parties, that is also their task – of course! – but the Minister has rightly pointed out that in recent years the economic conditions have changed significantly, and this is also to be taken into account by you in the conception and assessment of what is possible and what is not possible. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Thank you! Thank you!]] On the subject of what is important for the families. For families, family benefits are important – that is not a question at all – but the basis, at all the basis bad, is and remains the question of whether there is work for people in this country – work from which one can live. And, of course, it is also important to consolidate the economic situation in such a way that these essential basic conditions for all people in this country, i.e. for the people living in families – and we all live in a family in a certain way – are once a foundation. As far as the cuts in family allowances are concerned, I understand the criticism, I understand the concerns, because I too have received many emails from affected families in recent weeks, and therefore it is my concern to say something at the outset, in all those where I understand the criticism – the Minister has also had important clues – where, in part, there are fears that are not justified, because of the uncertainty that is a little conscious. What is not affected by the cuts is co-insurance, which will continue to exist until the age of 27, also for students: co-insurance in health and accident insurance. What will not be affected is orphan pensions. Fortunately, what has already succeeded in correcting is the question that there will be a compensation for the study grants. The siblings season is not affected – that was also an important note; this is something different from the multi-child supplement – just as – because I also hear about many concerns, even if it has nothing to do with family support – like the care allowance: People who receive care benefits today are not affected by cuts, nor will anything change in the future. It is very important to point this out! What I understand and what is causing me great concern is that students feel and find the situation to be more and more under pressure. It is important to me – and I am working very much on doing it – to use levers in different places to counter this. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That is why the commitment is very important that there will be improvements that you can see here how you can take out appropriate pressure. Our concern is the following: In recent decades we have always been the top of family benefits, and we want to continue to support the families in Austria in the next few years. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6882	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6903	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values TV viewers! I would like to say the following: Family policy is and remains a central theme of the ÖVP – with our vice-chanc Josef Pröll, with our Federal Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner and with the new Secretary of State Verena Remler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy has been further developed in recent years, becoming a positive family policy for fathers and mothers in our country. Family policy, however, is a cross-sectional matter and is closely linked to economic, labour market policy and sometimes women's policy. Family policy also concerns countries and communities, because that is where the families are at home, where they live, and where the childcare facilities are located. [[Abg. Singer: Where the ÖVP... is now nothing more done for the families!]] This is therefore a task of the local authorities; we must share these tasks together. I have once said that the next census is determined – and communities also want to have families, especially young families in their place; so all this is just one thing with one another. These benefits – the creation of care places, the creation of educational institutions for children – provide the basis for a good start to life. By the way: The care rate for children aged three to five is 90 percent; the last kindergarten year is free. There is more need for recovery for the zero- to three-year-olds. If my colleague, Mr Binder-Maier, says that the path is good, i.e. more physical benefits towards more cash benefits, I would like to add: We have already reached the middle of these achievements, but of course we must continue to work there. As Mr Musiol and Mr Haubner said that this package was only short-term and was an attack on families living at the poverty line, I would like to mention the following: [[Abg. Bucher:... colleague Leitl!]] Households with children in the lower three-in-a-half of their incomes are based on a study of the Wifo family benefits at five and a half-fold of their deposits in the FLAF, the average incomes triple only – and the upper third is getting out of it. – You have to look at all of this carefully. We know that more cash benefits do not automatically lead to a higher birth rate. This also shows the birth rate in Austria with 1.4 children. Austria, however, has to be said over and over again, with 2.8 percent of the gross domestic product spent above average on family benefits. The EU average is 2.5 percent. [[Abg. Singer: When you calculate Bulgaria..., of course!]] So I think you have to look at how family policy has developed. The Federal Minister has cut this short, and I would like to make a comparison which you too know very well, but sometimes do not want to be true, namely that we are still in the lead with the reductions in the duration of the claim provided for in the draft. This does not mean that some are not painful and that one needs to look carefully and there really is no disadvantage either, but in France and the Netherlands there is family support only up to the age of 20 and much more. It is of course also important to me personally as a family spokesperson: Yes, you have to look, and if there is a re-adjustment in the multi-child supplement, then that is correct and necessary. But one thing to conclude: The realities of family life must be brought into one's hands. It is not about a model, it is about freedom of choice for families in all areas. This, I believe, is a good family policy that we are currently supporting and forcing from the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e6985	Mrs Kitzmüller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7006	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! Oh, my God! High house! At the beginning, I would like to make a correction to the Minister for Family Affairs. He said that there was no transfer of family aid to Turkey. We have here a request from October 2009, which your ministry has answered, and which says that 2008 has gone 15 813 million € to Turkey. – So much for this answer. [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 15 billion €?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The family policy of this government has failed. The next savings package is a massive burden on our families. According to the plans of the SPÖ – and the SPÖ has invented this – money is to be reworked from benefits to benefits in kind, which is of course clear for the world's social-revolutionary anti-family view represented by the SPÖ: Kindergartenplatz instead of family allowance, baby crib instead of child benefit – quite logical! And women should return to work as soon as possible, because where women work, it is very favourable and the wage level is very low, as we have found everywhere. The ÖVP does nothing better, ladies and gentlemen: When we see the “V” in the middle of ÖVP, it has long passed “Volk”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is more to be seen as “variable”, and look at the definitions in the dictionary for variable reading – they are nervous; understandable at the budget – inconsistency, springy, superficial, unreliable – and you can continue to do so at any time. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP has passed from an agricultural-friendly party to a farm-anti-farming party, from a Christian party to a zeitgeist party, and now, finally, from what it called itself, it adopts a family party into a family-anti-family party. It is not surprising that the Minister of Finance approves the inconsistency of the savings package, it is only at the expense of the families. And if, in the field of direct and indirect taxes and to this end, the social security contributions are heavily burdened on families, and then a balance of the family package, ladies and gentlemen, then this is a joke and a blow to the face of the families! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do you really believe that you can divide the Austrians There we have the officials, there we have the employees, there we have the commuters, there we have the families and there we have the caregivers? [[Abg. Grossruck:... variable, the Austrians!]] – Please don't hesitate, ladies and gentlemen! Your savings package meets everyone, as my colleague mentioned, the 13. Family allowances, which are deleted, family allowances for students, the allowance for multiple children, which is lost, the support of apprentices looking for work – these three months after the end of the apprenticeship period – which is lost. [[Abg. Grandruck:... variable!]] And the biggest joke I have to tell you now in connection with Chancellor Faymann: He actually started a website, which reads as follows: ‘Bundeskanzler Werner Faymann has spoken. Two thirds of the new revenue is paid by banks, corporations, speculators and assets.” – Isn’t that funny when you listen to something like this? Then there is the possibility to click on a button with “Like” to say that you like it. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There are 8 336 926 Austrians, and how many Austrians, do you think, have clicked that they like that? 1,000, 5,000, 10,000? – It was exactly 100, that's the state of the day in the morning! So for 100 Austrians, the family package is ideal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street:... is the government bank!]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to experts, the ban on the valorization of family aid in recent years alone corresponds to € 700 million. If you're talking about this being family-friendly, I don't know what it looks like to you when it becomes family-friendly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals continue to call for massive support for families through fair taxation, through a tax relief of families through our family tax-sharing model. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an incentive for people to start a family, or to have more children – through all levels of income. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party is the only party to act for the benefit of the families and for the benefit of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7148	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7170	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Youth needs budget and budget needs youth. For this I do not need a degree at an economic university, but that is clear to all except the SPÖ and the ÖVP in this House. Youth needs budget, budget needs youth, that's a fact you don't stand here. If education and training, if research and science, if school and university education are not promoted, then primarily the sufferers are the young and the young adults. If new qualitative jobs are not created especially in the field of eco-economics and care, if precarious and atypical working conditions are not put in place and if youth unemployment is not combated in the long term and sustainable, then primarily the sufferers are the young and the young adults. If a federal law on youth protection ends in the drawer when a child and youth aid law is not even debated in this Parliament and if the full anchorage of the UN Convention on Children's Rights here becomes a spectacle in this Parliament, then primarily the sufferers are the children and young people. What's going on? What is the solution of this federal government? – Savings, hard, hardy savings that hit young people and young adults the most. They will be given the basis for their existence, and the Minister for Youth is responsible for this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Hard cuts for all those who can't do anything for this crisis. Hard cuts for all those who have to maintain the generation contract. And hard cuts for all those who are the so-called future of Austria; just SPÖ and ÖVP come again and again with this floskel, the youth is our future. This budget, this youth budget, is exactly the opposite. Again this shame – oh yes, it is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, a shame to the future and the educational investment of Austria! If in young people, especially in the case of family allowances, when they are studying, they are saved if the reference period is the 24th. This is an insane damage to the future of Austria. The study on the social situation of students shows one thing very clearly: Young adults who study need around €900 a month to survive. And when they go to work – and that's not a heavy bill – when they work 20 hours, they also have less time to study. That means the cat bites in the tail. And if the family allowance is reduced, then the education clause, ladies and gentlemen, is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The removal of family allowance for work-seeking young people aged 18 to 21, that is future-klau. What should an educated apprentice do other than look for a job? At 21, he still has little experience, and he just needs a new farm where he can stay. And that's gonna be shortened again. That's just as a future clumsy. Or: the hard removal of the family allowance after vocational training and, of course, instead of the 13. Family allowances are the lump sum, which is now only provided for school-leaving children. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the Youth Minister is behind me. [[Abg. Strache: The Mitterlehner is already gone!]] - No, he's over there. – This man is not just economic ministers and family ministers. He is also responsible for the interests of all young people in Austria. I don't know if you knew. As a youth speaker, I have to deal with him. But he has never done anything positive for the interests of young people so far! We have a law on the protection of young people, which has not been united by the federal authorities. We have family aid reductions, which represent education clau and future claus. He says it's about future ability. – No, it is not, ladies and gentlemen. Future skills look different.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7218	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7240	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! “SOS Family!” – Save Our Souls! I think we all agree here that it is about family, children and young people souls, and especially here the Austrian Federal Government is extremely saving. My colleague Ursula Haubner has already mentioned it: ==References====External links== Family aid is saved, and this is particularly true of families who do not have much money that schools can afford. We know that families have to pay millions of amounts for funding lessons et cetera in private, so that the children are trained great. And so you save the Austrian youth broken. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As a result of the planned reduction, for example, a HAK, a five-year training programme, is a massive loss for families. As an apprentice, it hits me extremely and I am very sorry that between 18 and 21 people who are looking for jobs are massively saved: If you don't find a job immediately, you don't get unemployment support, you fall through the rust and become a long-term unemployed person of tomorrow. Especially affected by the savings are also the graduates of upper levels, trade academy, trade school et cetera. We need to rework here, here there must be improvements, because this is the future of Austria. If you save the Austrian youth to death, you'll almost destroy the future of tomorrow. My previous speakers have already mentioned it, the savings for young people are inefficient. It is the wrong ones. It meets those who can't afford anything anyway. It meets those who are not so much in favour of life anyway. We have clear ideas on how to improve the budget. First: We demand a university billion – immediately! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Together with our scientific spokesperson Rainer Widmann and Marc Pommer of the GZÖ, we have developed these billions of universities. Why? This has to be done immediately. The Austrian universities lack construction materials. Money has to be taken in here. This is where investment has to be made. That is why we also call for the introduction of tuition fees, which are fair and socially balanced. The BZÖ is for tuition fees, but one thing is clear as well: If a person cannot afford the tuition fees, he must nevertheless be able to study in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, said so lapidar: You're demanding a lot, but where are the solutions? – Mrs Colleague, I will present you with a few more solutions. One of them is the citizens’ initiative ‘SOS family’. We also demand a university bonus. The university bonus looks such that, when the matura is dissolved, Austrian maturants receive a bonus to be able to study, which is € 5 000. With 28 000 foreign students, this amounts to € 140 million annually for Austrian universities. This is intended, it makes sense, and this helps the Austrian universities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also support the suspension of compulsory military service. Yes, we are in favour of the suspension of military service. This will be done permanently in other countries. In Germany too, it is currently the subject. We want an appreciation of the Austrian federal army and in addition the introduction of civil assistance. The voluntary social year is also to be upgraded by a financial charge to ensure access to older generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also call for the maintenance of the 13th century. Family aid and reference period until 26. Year of life. [[Abg. Wheeler: Demand, demand, demand!]] – Yes, of course we demand because we also present solutions. I'll give you all right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Where? Where? Where?]] I'll tell you where you find this. Thank you, that was a good tip, as I am very happy that you reminded me. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen and spectators at home, please support “SOS family”! You can do this on www.bzoe.at or on www.gzoe.at. [[Abg. Hornek: SOS-BZÖ!]] I would be very pleased if you would support this in a large number of ways. Here you will find everything, our demands, our solutions for the future of Austria and especially for the Austrian youth in this country. Finally, I would like to present a presentation to you, Minister – so that the Austrian youth in this country is not picked up like a hendl, but has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7356	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7377	Madam President. High house! Family policy and family cuts are a serious issue, which is why they go back to the seriousness of this issue. If ÖVP spokesperson Steibl here today at the speaker's desk, family policy will continue to be at the heart of ÖVP policy, then we can only take this as a dangerous threat, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then: Family policy of the ÖVP is really an attack on the families. You have made it clear with your speech and with this your budget draft: You don't have a heart for families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You don't!]] I have a heart for families, and you will still see what the liberals here in Parliament are going to initiate on requests, resistance to these burdens, against these cuts, against this attack on the Austrian families. Above all, I would like to ask myself the question, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: Now you've been thinking for so long, now you've taken up a breach of constitution – and what's come out? A massive burden on families. The families will get the money taken away. I can only say that this is a bit inconceivable, and above all, if I think about the reduction of the care allowance in particular, it is heartless what you are doing here with the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What remains of the class struggle of the SPÖ? What have we not heard here from the Secretary-General: The rich are to be asked to cash out, the rich are to contribute a distinct part to budget recovery! - Yes, what did you do? – You have met the poor, you have met the socially weak with your burden on the families in Mark and Leg! Seeing Once again, Mrs Van der ÖVP, the opinions of the Catholic Family Association, the preliminary organisation of the ÖVP. He's talking about unconstitutionality. Mr President, you are laughing. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is not a preliminary organisation of the ÖVP!]] I also believe it now, because if you look at the results of the elections in Vienna, you know, there can no longer even be the Catholics who have chosen the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I also understand: because you really don't have a heart for the families. Do you know what the President of the Catholic Family Association writes, Mrs. Colleague? I'll read it to you: As an extrapartial family policy organization, the Catholic family association is currently reaching reactions from all political directions. In doing so, we also feel a lot of misunderstanding for the cuts in families among many officials and members of the government parties. One thing is clear: When parties always emphasize the importance of the families and when parties write the high priority of the families in the party program, they are also measured by their actions. - Quote. Mrs Colleague, you have to delete the concept and chapter ‘family’ from the ÖVP party programme and simply take it out! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd like to tell you one thing: The budget presented means massive cuts, especially for families, which cannot be taken so easily here in the House. This design is a single flicking work, without any vision, without taking into account the actual effects. I will then make it clear to you on the basis of a few examples. And what you always forget in this discussion: It is always spoken of by different groups. On the one hand, the group of drivers is addressed, then the students are a little saved, with the officials, with the commuters, then you cut a little with the caregivers. They forget that all this is subsuming in the family. That means if I have a family care case if I have a student, then I have the double, the triple, the fivefold load. Think, for example, of the mineral oil tax! Many families live so that their children can grow up in nature, outside the agglomerations. The parents must bring their children to school. Workers must drive their cars to work. All of them are taxed on mineral oil. Or the care allowance: 80 percent of all care cases are cared for by family members in Austria, by parents, by women, by single parents who themselves have children again and by family support, the family allowance is reduced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You have made clear to the House with these measures and with this draft budget - I come to the conclusion - that: You don't have a heart for the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I want to be optimistic
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7471	Mr deputies, you were already at the end of the sentence. That's the final sentence after the end of the sentence! [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Madam President! An optimistic conclusion!]] Half a sentence, as with my colleague, Musiol, will still be granted to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7501	As we approach Christmas, I am optimistic that you will respond to the proposals that the family party of the liberals will make and warm your cold heart before Christmas.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7528	Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time must not exceed 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7579	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I won't use your patience for very long. I am referring only to this matter with the family aid beneficiaries from Turkey. My claim was that children who live in Turkey have not been providing family support since 1996. This question has been answered, although Turkey is in favour of it, but the cases that have been identified relate to Turkish citizens who live in Austria and have their children in Austria. We will continue to clarify this situation. My claim that this is not paid remains true.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7616	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:38:30]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7637	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7839	The following template has also been received: Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, including the Final Act, including those attached, 944 of the Supplements. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to put it on the agenda of tomorrow 85. This is a matter for the Commission. On the other hand, is there any contradiction? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing this. [[10:39:01]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7876	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mr Neubauer has asked the Committee on Transport to report to the Committee on Transport, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Reimbursement on Amendment 334/A(E) by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues in relation to the implementation of the fourth Danube Bridge and the Westring in the sense of a long-term structural improvement for the benefit of citizens. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will be taken after the end of this debate. [[10:40:01]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7912	The debate on points 1 to 4, 6 and 7, 8 to 10, 13 to 15, 16 and 17, 18 and 19, 22 to 24, 25 and 26 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e7936	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 112 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 88 minutes and BZÖ 84 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:41:21]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 286/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended (986 e.g.) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 461/A by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Court of Auditors Act (987 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 677/A by Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), BGBl. No. 1/1930, as last amended by the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl. I No. 47/2009, amended (988 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1187/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Law, the Court of Auditors Law 1948, the Constitutional Court Law 1953 and the Administrative Court Law 1985, and Amendment No 599/A(E) by Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol, colleagues on the extension of the Court of Auditors' responsibilities (989 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8031	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8058	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The need for a efficient use of resources is undisputed, and it is therefore obvious that tests are carried out as an essential basis. The Court of Auditors is responsible for these audits. But, strangely, there is always a kind of blockade when the opposition parties call for further auditing of the Court of Auditors. Again and again there is strong resistance, as if one were afraid of trials; perhaps that is the case. In any case, there are some opposition requests to extend the Court's audit competence. A key point would be: Audit competence in the event of the acquisition of state liability or the provision of funds in connection with the bank assistance package. Another essential point would be to examine non-profit building associations, apart from participation. The participation of companies with at least 25 percent of the state share would also be a very important point of assessment, because the State's money is bound. It would be important to carry out tests in this area. And finally, the examination of communities, even of smaller communities. According to the current situation, examinations by municipalities are only allowed from a population of 20 000. We now have a request from the government parties, which is at least heading in the right direction on our pressure, because the test competence is now being extended to municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants. That is to say, there have been 24 congregations so far, now there will be 71 congregations that fall into the competence of the test. – A step in the right direction. It will also provide the opportunity to examine, under certain circumstances, communities with less than 10 000 inhabitants. However, these circumstances are very limited because the state government or the country day has to make an application, and that can be a maximum of two per year. This means that the political arbitrariness is open to the door, and there is no possibility of cross-sectional audit by the Court of Auditors. That is why we naturally have great criticism. It would be just the decisive that the communities across Austria can be examined in a cross-sectional examination, for example communities with similar structures and so on. [[Abg. Wheelers: You have no idea at all! It's being tested enough!]] It is perfectly true that it would be necessary to examine communities with less than 10,000 inhabitants. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] These are at least about 2 300 municipalities, and the average debt per inhabitants of these municipalities is about €1600, rising. So I don't understand that there should be no need to carry out audits and make suggestions on how to improve the situation. I do not understand this blockade of the government parties. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] That is why, together with the Greens, we also propose an amendment that the Court of Auditors should examine at least four municipalities with fewer than 10 000 inhabitants a year without any restrictions and that it should require a minority right in the country days. That would be the next small compromise. If the government is concerned that these audits are carried out, and if it is really a matter of concern to you – after all, the Court of Auditors is an auxiliary body of Parliament, that is, we are all on one side – and you want to implement this Constitution unanimously, then I can only say to you: If you agree with the amendment, we have taken another step.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8107	Mr Wittmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8128	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that this is a law which constitutes an essential step towards the expansion of testing competence, namely the border between the population of the municipalities from which the Federal Court of Auditors is responsible for the examination, and from 20 000 to 10 000 inhabitants. This is an essential step. That is, the Federal Court of Auditors can examine all municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. Mr Stefan, you may have missed the fact that the Federal Court of Auditors is able to examine not only two municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants, but two, i.e. four each. There are de facto four municipalities with fewer than 10 000 inhabitants who can be examined – as you have demanded – and I think that would be a compromise. Why are there four communities? – That too has a reason. Don't let the child be thrown out with the bath. The municipalities with up to 10 000 inhabitants are the smallest. These micro-communities are examined by the local authorities, they are examined by the national accounting court, and they would still be examined by the Federal Court of Justice The Court of First Instance shall have the power to carry out the These municipalities do not normally have the necessary administrative structure to be mastered by the test that results. That is why it has been decided that the micro-communities and small communities are being examined by the national accounting authorities and, of course, by the local authorities – therefore, they already have a double examination – and those municipalities that have a higher population, just from the Federal Court of Auditors. In the case of municipalities in which difficulties arise, the Land Government and the Landtag can choose two municipalities, which will eventually come to the test. These are especially those communities, which are also in the explanatory notes, which are in economic or financial difficulties, which have brought themselves into a difficult situation through poor conduct. I think it is reasonable that the Federal Court of Auditors – which would also mean a massive burden of work – should not also be examined by the micro-communities, I think it is more reasonable to have the small towns and small municipalities examined by the national accounting court, because it simply has a closer reference to these small communities. Despite all of this, this extension is justified and certainly the right one. I therefore think that they are objectively more correct than other proposals which have come from the opposition because the population is an objective criterion, while the budget figures change annually. If the budget – of about €10 million, as it stands in an application – is crucial for the examination, this can, of course, change continuously. I consider the population to be more objective and therefore easier to implement. The text to be adopted today should still be valid in some time. That an examination process has to be reorganised over and over again, of which I am fully aware. In 2009, we expanded our audit competence to include equity companies with less than 50 percent of the government's share of the investment in order to shift to economic governance. Heuer, in 2010, we lower the verifiability of the communities; another step towards better review of public behaviour. And finally – and I believe this should be a permanent process – we can understand that we are mandated to the Court of Auditors to carry out an evaluation of this year's examination after two years, in order to see how the experience with the national constitutions, how the experience with the examinations themselves is, can then start a new discussion here on the basis of an evaluation report. I believe that the change in society, the change in the forms of society, the management of the administrative tasks of the communities lead to us constantly adapting our audit competences and ultimately taking the necessary steps. I think that this is a very crucial step towards further expansion of the municipal examination. I think we've set a milestone with that. Municipal associations also remain verifiable, taking into account many objections. – I ask you to agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8182	Mr Mag. Kogler will speak with a desired 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8206	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by referring to the history of these constitutional novels, then to the conditions in the communities, at least in a few communities – Mr Gaßner is looking so skeptically – about the state of control, about the prophylactic effect of a proper audit of the Court of Auditors, about the disadvantages of this half-solution and, ultimately, about the remaining benefits, and finally I will tell you about our voting behaviour. First of all, about the history of the origin. – If my previous speaker, after all, the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, finds that we are deciding on a ‘milestone’, then this is worth a brief reminder, why we have something to decide today. It was the opposition, at that time specifically the Green and BZÖ Group, which, in the context – admittedly – only brought these and other things into the paper with a completely different matter. At that time it was primarily not about this matter at all, but several things have been linked. That's it. The easing of banking secrecy has been linked to the expansion of the Court of Auditors' audit competences in a wide variety of ways. That is the last point, and these examinations may be appreciated at the end of the day. At that time, the government groups held the opposition: Junktim, cow trade, alien. “Unbelievable” – that was at all the best; as if something else would happen within the government. Year and day is the same, and rightly so, because the task of politics is to stand up for what you can choose and, if necessary, enforce. It will be difficult to hold up the opposition if they try to enforce something. In this case, at least a small step has been taken; something that Mr Wittmann called ‘Meilenstein’. Let's be glad that we made this a trip, because you know one thing you know very well: If we hadn’t acted like that at the time, you couldn’t make a “milestone ” press release today. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] The conditions in the communities are really different to characterise. It is, I think, essential to note that many communities that are trying to manage themselves have quite different problems of a financial nature. Many of the indebted communities – but they are now less in principle – have nothing to do with it. This is a question of the income situation in general, the share of income, the increasing tasks, and there is often the difference between the shears. That is true, and in order to clarify and resolve these problems one does not necessarily need auditing powers, but it is about very different things. This was all about the financial constitution and economic policy. But there are also communities – and the number is unfortunately getting started – that do badly, do stupid – say it as it is – communities where prestige projects are built, at the expense of the parish citizens, because the money then is missing elsewhere, and so on and so on. I am allowed to remain in my constituency in the Federal State of Styria in this context, which is also quite useful. There it is important to show two special treats, which still cause millions of damage at the moment. You wonder where the control was. First to the municipality of Fohnsdorf. . A report of the Court of Auditors will soon be drawn up, however, on the pressure of the opposition, because the Styrian state government could no longer be considered as different from the one in question. After years of heart tactic! Today this would not happen again because red and black have come together in the Styria for a new narrow coalition. It wasn't like that at the time. The pressure of the Greens and the KPÖ in the Landtag was so great that it was not different. In this respect, it will be an advantage if, in future, the national accounting court can also examine on its own initiative. In the above-mentioned community, it is clear that money has been poured out without having the sufficient perspective. What are we with now? – With a thermal spa with millions of losses, with millions of grants, and all of us, taxpayers in Austria, have to stretch us to the ceiling in order to be able to catch that, anyway, somehow again. This could certainly have been different with a different planning and with a different approach. The point is only – even here is the state of control again, because that's what it's all about, after-send –: The Styrian community supervision has been caught not only not only to assess the whole in time, or to interfere where there are opportunities – it may have too few capacities – but what is really tragic – is that, when the scandals occur, the local authorities are regularly involved in making this drift and the responsible ones there the robbers too. This is the problem, which is the state of the local authority concerned. In the Styria there are the spats of the roofs: In reality, the local authority itself is a candidate for the greatest supervision. To the Hartberg problem. There was exactly the opposite. It was suddenly too much money in the cash register due to a sale of the savings bank. You know the processes. And all of a sudden, the money was speculated, not in the one-pair-percent range, but in much higher areas. One might well say that there was less loss with a different eye measure. It is about 15 million plus/minus loss of 60 million investment volume. There, too, the local authority makes the wall in retrospect. It can't be! We have found every time – and with this the ÖVP is right, the municipal government is right – that once the entire test system has to be evaluated, because the control committees of the municipalities often do not do so. The district authorities are also having a hard time. The local authorities should work properly; I don't know what that is, no supervisory body. Against this background, it will be necessary in the future – and that was certainly not possible this year – to redesign and set up the whole thing together with the federal states, to make the supervision itself more efficient. In this context, however, the Court of Auditors now has a prophylactic effect. My thesis is: If the mayors and managers of Fohnsdorf knew – which is a narrow circle of people anyway – that much more often, much competent hard auditing of the Court of Auditors threatens, certainly also those of the so-called Federal Court of Auditors, then no such locks would be opened to the driving from the outset. Similar to the situation in Hartberg. One has always been able to say that the congregation supervision was constantly involved, and someone else does not come to see it anyway. This is the basic problem, and this is now, unfortunately, only to a small extent. The real power of the billing courts essentially goes from the Federal Court of Auditors because it does much more. The national accounting courts would need to be retrofitted in their competences and in their independence status. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I say that under the heading an improvement is made because, on the one hand, the border is reduced to 10 000 and on the other hand, the country's legislative authorities can, at least on their own, also bring the courts of account in the country in order to examine the municipalities. This is certainly a progress, but only by 10. 20 percent on a 100 percent scale. But it's going in the right direction. They call it “Meilenstein. ” We will put forward our amendments for the second reading, but ultimately we will agree at third reading, because I know how difficult this result was to negotiate within the municipalities and within the cities. I'm sure my interlocutor will say something about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8300	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8321	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make four preliminary remarks. First: Yes, it is part of a living parliamentaryism, as this legislative novels have come about, at the beginning and then in the implementation of the deadline. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes eh!]] Mr Kogler, in this respect, the term “junktim” is obviously something that the opposition can also apply. Why not? This is also part of a political business. Secondly, I want to break a lance for the mayors in this country. I believe that it is one of the most difficult tasks in democracy to be mayors in a community, to be on-site and to live up to the wishes and concerns of people every day. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mayors do a great job. We should be grateful that these people ultimately make themselves available for democracy in the positive sense. Thirdly, Yes, it is true, all municipalities are being examined in Austria. I think it is missing to give the impression that only the municipalities of 10,000 or more inhabitants are being examined upward by this novel. They're all being checked! What I want is for us to have a discussion about the fact that not the Federal Court of Auditors is automatically the only one to be assigned to the test competence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, the countries also have responsibility, of course the national accounting authorities have responsibility, of course the local authorities have responsibility! And I don't want this one-way situation – to all, even to the opposition – only the federation is the good examiner. Everyone – of course also the country, of course also the municipality, have responsibility, of course, the local authority. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] That is why this amendment is also designed to be used by the countries, because we are now making it possible to make national control more effective at national constitutional level by national accounting authorities. Let's discuss where to discuss it! An open word on the amendment: I would like the rural days to be able to decide for themselves how to assume their new responsibility, and not that we must prescribe what they have to do on the part of the federal government. That is why we do not agree with this amendment. I would like the countries, including the countryside, to assume this responsibility themselves. Fourthly, the question of numbers. Now there are 21 municipalities that can be checked by the Federal Court of Auditors. In the future it will be up to 100. That's a fivefold. Why? – Because the reduction in the number of municipalities with 10 000 inhabitants is 71 municipalities that are being examined. And if the countries, land day and state government in common, take advantage of the possibility, then there are up to four municipalities per state, and so to speak, four municipalities times eight federal states are 32 municipalities, so that they are 71 and 32 municipalities, i.e. 103. Five times as much as before! I also think it is right that, in the future, the Court of Auditors will be able to examine the distributed companies, because I believe there is really a lot to be improved there. In this respect, an examination, if it has been made wise, is to make advice for future things a little better. So, in that case, yes. As a responsible minister, I have not always been happy when the Court of Auditors has come. I also did not agree with everything that the examiners gave of themselves to wisdom. The Court of Auditors must also be accompanied by a certain critical response. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] The Court of Auditors is not the owner of absolute truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But a well-made test is also beneficial for the one being tested. In this respect, the community level, if actually gained experience here, could be the mayors, the community associations could take away much experience from this examination in a positive sense from the distributed companies. Yes, this is an important step. Very dry said: It will not be a final step, perhaps we will sit back in two, three years and look at the results of this process. [[Abg. Grosz: Or earlier!]] – That can be too. I would therefore like to thank all those involved for taking this step. I hope that this will also help to ensure that citizens know that their tax money is handled well. But I say again: Not the Federal Court of Auditors alone and the Federation are those responsible for the control, these are all territorial authorities. And the Court of Auditors itself must be accompanied by a certain degree of criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8424	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8446	Mr President. My predecessor Willi Molterer broke a lance for the mayors. [[Abg. Hornek: Right!]] - Right. I know the situation, the area of responsibility and the work of the mayor. No question at all. And this will lead us to a very difficult situation in the next few years, because hardly any more candidates have been found in individual municipal elections. But I would also like to break a run for the Court of Auditors because in recent years, since I have been in the House for eight years, we have been holding back on the Court of Auditors' reports, that the Court of Auditors is doing valuable work in the interests of the National Council, that it is an important institution of our House and that we cannot give up on this competent audit body. Dear Willi Molterer, what you said that he is not, so to speak, the highest instance of wisdom, is perfectly clear. But I am particularly concerned about expanding the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, that we offer more advice to the municipalities. The complexity of the range of work in the municipalities is increasing from year to year, which leads, for example, to financial statements, disbursements et cetera. And the Court of Auditors can offer a valuable service not only to the municipalities but also to the councils. We should not give up on these, for one thing is clear that the Court of Auditors has powers which I miss at national level, but which are enormously significant in the Court of Auditors and which are intended to benefit the municipalities and also close-to-state companies. I am not concerned primarily with the examination and control, I am concerned with the advisory service, which is free for every municipality. If I am the mayor of a church, I accept this advisory service with goodwill, for God's sake! This is a benefit for every community, if I have the opportunity in future to compare my community, my budget, my expenses and my revenue with similarly stored communities from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's why I did. I have not been concerned with introducing an additional level of examination, because I know that the communities have to deal with tests anyway. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] Let us discuss whether we are not taking out a level or whether we are not even leaving the municipal audit to the Court of Auditors alone next to the control committee. That would be a common variant we have to think about. We should not resist, for example, whether it is possible to bring in a 10 million or a 10 000 inhabitants' limit. That's not the essential thing for me. The essential thing is to help the communities, because we are now seeing, precisely because of the budgetary situation of the municipalities and the countries, that they are increasingly in need of funding and that they need help, as I mentioned at the outset, about the complexity of matter. And here the Court of Auditors can be a valuable, important support of the community, ultimately of the citizens, and we should accept it with gratitude, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8505	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8526	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler is of course right, the agreement between government and opposition was helpful and has accelerated the matter. However, there has been a long time in the reform debate. For example, I remember: In 2007 we had a symposia, then with the Constitutional Court President Korinek – it was also Hubert Weber, then President of the European Court of Auditors, on the panel – and party representatives. And the SPÖ clearly supported the Court of Auditors' reform proposals at that time. At the time, I have tried very hard to make it clear that it is a matter of assistance, of expertise, of recommendations from the Court of Auditors, and not of horror or of burden or even threat to communities. Not too It is, of course, also underestimating a preventive effect, which is based on an expansion of the skills of the community. Unfortunately, there is a distortion in many municipalities and cities about the activities of the Court of Auditors. I remember: I initiated an examination of the Graz trade fair in 2003. There were four or five halls planned at the time – an absolute madness. The Court of Auditors' audit, which took place, then rescaled this to a reasonable degree. Today, everyone is satisfied with it. At that time, the city of Graz accused me of criminalizing the city of Graz. That's completely absurd. In reality, this was a very important aid from the Court of Auditors for the city of Graz at that time. I'd rather have a value limit. I can also live with other proposals – as I am with my previous speaker – it is ultimately also suitable for the population limit of 10,000 people. You can't point out enough: It's about competence. This does not mean that the Court of Auditors is now marching and checking 71 municipalities and cities. It is about competence and knowledge that benefits all communities. Why is that so important, right now? – If you look at the financial problems of the municipalities and cities, which are still underestimated in the social policy impact, in the financial and economic impact, that is more than dramatic! And that is why it is also very important that this additional auditing competence brings back more attention in this area to the fact that the lights are set up. Second, which is so important: In reality, the social situation of the mayors and local functionaries is also dramatic. The highest level of competence, passion, commitment, even the entire life planning of those responsible in the communities must focus on this, but social policy treatment is bleak – it must be clearly stated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am glad that Mr Molterer mentioned this praise to the mayors. But these words must also follow actions. For example, pension contributions should of course be reimbursed in a reasonable manner. We have to think about it: How can you make the unemployment insurance scheme reasonable for local functionaries? And the removal provisions are also adjusted. Indeed, ASVG-insured mayors are massively disadvantaged. That's where a package needs it. Since at the beginning I spoke of an agreement: In this respect, we should be in agreement, all of which are political groups. There's really something to do here, and we should do that in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8590	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8612	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! All speak of the Court of Auditors' expertise, of the advisory services, of the assistance it can offer. We've heard all of this. My statements in the last meetings on this subject also went in this direction. I ask you: Why contain Do you present these expertises to those communities that do not have 10,000 inhabitants? Who says, then, that there are not even communities that want to have assistance, expertise and comparisons with others? Who says that could not be the case? It is not a question, Mr Herb, of us going to the mayors here. It doesn't want a human being – it doesn't want the opposition either. We also believe that the mayors do excellent work, but perhaps they themselves are sometimes overemphasized with things where they do not know themselves like this or when they say: [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] Please, help me now! And then they do not get any help because the local authority is not a competent contact point or because perhaps the national accounting court does not have the quality that should be expected or expected. That is why we do not want a limit, either a resident or an amount, but a general authority of audit for the Court of Auditors as a whole – perhaps in the final consequence. In principle, we feel this first step, that we are now reducing the border to 10,000 inhabitants, as welcome – but that is just a first step – and that is why we will also vote in third reading. For one thing is already left: Cross-sectional and comparative tests are not possible de facto. And that would actually be recommended to get an overview of what is not going so well in Austria, what goes well and how you can change something. In particular, the funding systems should also be examined, which I would like to address briefly. Austria spends a total of around €12 billion on funding, namely federal government, countries and municipalities, triple funding. I believe that this would be a matter of urgency. That's 5 percent of the gross domestic product, it's 2.5 percent across the EU, so we're far above the average. Since Mr Kogler – unfortunately I don't have so much time and I also have to stick to the speaking time – spoke of “his” constituency: Mr Kogler, this is my constituency, Obersteiermark. You're in the east, right?- Oh, my God! Now to Fohnsdorf: Last week, there was a municipal council meeting – that is up-to-date – in which a second supplementary proposal was decided. Imagine: a second supplementary proposal and that in November, if normally the budget for the next year is already being negotiated! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Our municipal council there has significant figures – there are also key figures that are recorded in the law – which say that the ongoing behaviour around the seven times has worsened – it is already negative and is seven times worse – and the free financial peak, even negative, has worsened four times again! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Where's the colleague Großruck? First call in and then...!]] Addressing these key figures by the relevant municipal council, do you know what the mayor has answered? – Are there any other questions, please? Ladies and gentlemen, however, it really cannot go! I am glad that this community has been tested, but really question what comes out of it. I am convinced that the mayor cannot begin with the Court of Auditors' report because he has no idea what key figures are, what they mean and what they can cause. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There, I think it is necessary to continue working. Now we agree at third reading, but it is necessary to continue to work on a further extension of the Court of Auditors' audit skills.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8674	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8696	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today's law decision is about reorientating control and testing for our communities and creating new opportunities. I would like to start by thanking the Constitutional speakers Willi Molterer and Peter Wittmann, but also the members of the opposition, who have contributed to the success of establishing a sustainable model here today, in agreement with the countries, national billing courts, the municipal government and the municipal government. It wasn't easy. It's also been a while. We discussed intensively a year ago, I think, and now we have succeeded in completing this. The development shows – Austria’s municipalities were indebted at €12.7 billion at the end of 2008 – that the economic situation of course does not become easier. And especially the outsourced companies – the previous speakers have already stressed this – pose a certain problem to close control gaps here. I believe that the next reason and one important reason is that there are developments and changes in social forms and in funding. There needs a professional exam and professional facilities. I am not aware that it is said – and this is happening again and again today – that it will not be examined. It is tested in the municipal area, on site. This is the efficient control, where one also has an insight into the community – the district authorities, the national accounting authorities. And that's where I could imagine you doing something right at the national accounting courts. Anyone who questions this will find that there are the resources that exist in different countries. I would like to see the Federal Court of Auditors working better and more efficiently with the national accounting authorities in the future. I think this legislative decision brings these possibilities. For all of us, it is about where and how we can test efficiently. It is about where we can best find our main principles – economy, efficiency, proportionality. It is also important – and that is what I believe is the concern of our local politicians and the mayor – that we do not introduce red tape that is superfluous with additional examinations, but that we are efficiently, sparingly and transparently controlled and tested. I mean, in total, this model is an order to realign the test and control. It is about observing this model and that the Court of Auditors should then bring back its experience and we should be able to turn on the screw test whenever there is a need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8742	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8765	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the galleries! Much has been said about what this reform brings about, this expansion of competence. It has also been juggled with figures: for example, that the Federal Court of Auditors can now examine 71 municipalities instead of 25 municipalities. There are still 2 358 municipalities without Vienna, which he cannot examine. Even if you subtract the 32 communities, that's a lot more. That is to say, it is a first step, not a question. But it is also clear that a cross-sectional examination, a comparative examination, an overview examination to the extent that we wish it to be possible. In addition, the question of minority demand has also been discussed. In concrete terms, it is now possible to provide for the examination by decision of the Landtag and Land Government. From our point of view, this is too little. From our point of view, it is an essential need, particularly in the field of control, for the minority to be able to bring about such a desire in a country day. There has also already been a textual proposal from the government groups in which this was planned. Unfortunately, it has been withdrawn by the amendment. According to Constitutional Professor Heinz Mayer, it is so that the current texting does not allow the possibility of a minority demand to be made impossible, up to federal constitutional law. I agree with you that there is nothing that can and should be prescribed to the national constitutions in this respect, because it is part of their constitutional autonomy, but one should at least give them the opportunity to provide for minority demands. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Stefan.]] This is not possible with the current texting and after interpretation of the constitutional law experts. That is why we have, together with our colleagues in FPÖ, prepared an amendment in which we are reopening this possibility, because we have taken back the sentence that you once had in your text and which you have proposed. I shall now inform you of this request. [[Quoted print version removed]] We will therefore continue to ensure that the national constitutional legislators find other ways to insert minority rights. We will continue to monitor the possibility of all the measures that are now available, and, of course, we will also insist that what Mr Wittmann and Mr Molterer have suggested here today is respected, namely that this is a legislation in the river and that this must be constantly developed and this must be evaluated and, after a maximum of two years, further enlargements should be made after a given period of time, if this seems to be useful. That's what we'll have in mind, and that's what we'll remind you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8873	The amendment tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8974	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e8997	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today's decision to extend the Court of Auditors' audit competences is a good example of the success of the art of the feasibility here in the House. I remember: When more than a year ago the request was decided in plenary, there were very dedicated mayors who requested vehemently from us that there could no longer be an additional test position. There were dedicated national accounting court directors who claimed that they also have and can examine competences. There were also very intense conversations within the coalition. What I think is very pleasing is that we always have the pulse of being feasible and, above all, at the heart of what is to be achieved, and that it was very important for all political groups to work to ensure that better control can be introduced at local level, that benchmarks can be introduced, and that institutions such as national accounting offices and the Court of Auditors can also live up to these benchmarks and bring them into the communities. This art of the feasible is evident in today's request that we will decide. I would also like to thank you for the discussion. There was a very large bandwidth: On the one hand, the Members of the Liberal Group have said that there should be no restrictions on the population; others have said that there should not be any change at all at all at the borders of the population. Today, we have the compromise that – commissioned by the Land Days and the Land Governments – the Court of Auditors can each carry out two tests on municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, that we will have the municipalities checked between 10 000 and 20 000 inhabitants, that local associations will also be examined and that the national accounting authorities in municipalities of less than 10 000 inhabitants will examine. It is also very important for the following to be established, because this has always been the case in the discussion process: that there must be a vote in the examinations, that it cannot be so that one institution after another gives itself the ring, but that a concerted process is given. We have always moved in the field of tension between control and promulgation during the discussions. I am pleased that today we can take the step towards benchmarks, in the direction of control, and that this argument of premeditation could be cleared out in the course of the discussions. In this way, the reactions of the stakeholders of each institution in recent weeks show that this measure will now be fulfilled with life. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we do not always consider laws to be grounded in stone, but that we look more closely at the effects of laws, the effects of the granting of benchmarks, these control procedures that we decide today, and then develop from them. It is only a society that is developing that brings reasonable measures into legislation. I would like to thank all the representatives who have conducted the negotiations on this request and who have reached a compromise which is very viable and forward-looking. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9052	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9073	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I admire the anointing words of the representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, because every seven-slaughter is an energetic bundle, as measured by their activity – especially in this area. I would also like to say that on this occasion. For one and a half years, we have now been “in this area” until a legion of MPs from SPÖ and ÖVP comes to this pult and says: A milestone has been achieved, a big step! Finally, the test is here! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, it was you who have delayed for a year and a half that this extension of the audit competence for the Court of Auditors to the Austrian communities will finally be a reality! Not the opposition – neither the BZÖ nor the Greens nor the Freedoms – has prevented it, but we have for one and a half years – including requests for deadlines – insisted that this will finally become reality as a result of a number of scandals experienced by the Austrian communities. The perfide in this situation and also in the proposal by SPÖ and ÖVP, which is a first step but not sufficient, is that those communities that have driven us to this legislative change are not covered by this test competence, ladies and gentlemen. That's the perfide. The financial scandal has driven us into shoots, fohnsdorf, tentway, Hartberg and Köflach. After this extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence, no shoots, fohnsdorf, tentweg or Hartberg or Köflach will ever benefit from an audit of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to congratulate you on this ‘view of the future’ in this area, on the one hand, to make a law precisely because of these towns, but on the other hand to ensure that the Court of Auditors is never allowed to review them, or at all not to review communities of this size. It is important – it is true – that we have finally been able to force you to admit, after a year and a half, that something has to be done in this area. It can only be a first step, many previous speakers have said. Yes, it can only be a first step, even in the implementation of your own given promise here in plenary. I would like to remind you how much you have invited Members of the opposition parties to agree to the insanity of easing banking secrecy. I'm still convinced that this was stupid. You know that now, too. At the time, they granted several points to the opposition or, at least, to those Members who agreed: Checking the Skylink, if I may remind you... [[Abg. Head: Done!]] Done, yes, with tiredness and need, after the President of the Court of Auditors had threatened to go to the Constitutional Court! I'll give you the right. He had to extortion, threaten, set heaven and hell in motion so that you can live up to your promise. Thank you very much, Mr Klubobmann. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Secondly, Expanding the test competence – done, one and a half years “re-theatre”, “re-doctrined”, and today we have a so-called minimal variant. And thirdly, Mr Klubobmann of the Austrian People's Party Head: the extension of minority rights in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. Where's that? Where is the possibility of the setting up of committees of inquiry and, and, at the time, of the debate by Mr Klubobmann Cap in ardent words? Cap said: I am in favour of a new parliamentaryism, and the investigation committees will fall like the fall fruit in autumn! - Well, nothing is! We are still waiting for this to happen today. I therefore remind you today of your own word. I would like to remind you of the motions for resolutions that you have decided here in the course of the easing of banking secrecy. I am satisfied that even today, with the signalled approval of the two-thirds majority, the BZÖ has succeeded in expanding the testing skills. But I'll tell you one thing: That's far from enough. We will continue to insist that the extension will be so concrete that the municipalities in Austria will be cared for by the Court of Auditors for some degree of safety and professionality when it comes to checking the money of taxpayers, taxpayers and taxpayers in the communities in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9122	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9143	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I was allowed to work for 25 years in municipal politics, 20 years of it as mayor. I note that the mayors do not have the worst against reasonable testing mechanisms and accompanying control. The municipalities are already the best-tested local authorities. So far, it has been common practice that at the first level of the audit committee – in my home community always the Obmann of an opposition party – has examined the next level by the state of Lower Austria in the form of an unsuspected examination of conduct or conduct by the municipal council and in the past, from 20,000 inhabitants of the Federal Court of Auditors, has also exercised its audit competences in so many community associations. In the future, the first and second levels remain the same, with the difference that 71 more cities can be examined in the future and beyond. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the Federal Court of Auditors may, upon request, carry out these additional audits accordingly. Also outsourced holdings can be controlled in the future. This is important in that there are considerable financial resources available to some cities and communities. One important point in this context was that the President personally saw the small structure of our communities in the course of a trip to the forest district and made a personal picture of the fact that the small rural communities in particular were working very, very efficiently – in parentheses: must. The population solidaritys itself with its communities and brings a lot of voluntary service to the benefit of the population in voluntary institutions such as associations and institutions. One thing I do not want to mention here, however, is that special small rural communities are massively disadvantaged due to the graded population key, because less tax money per person comes into the municipal fund than in the urban area. It is therefore legitimate that the major financial flows in the It is also important to ensure that cities are examined more closely. It is much wiser to control the large amounts more precisely than to celebrate small amounts. Finally, I would like to say that the President has also set out a sign of efficiency and made it clear that no further staff is needed for these additional checks. If the promises made here by my previous speakers that there is agreement to this legislative text actually apply, I thank you for the consistent way.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9197	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9219	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The competence to examine now also communities with 10,000 inhabitants and so on is the one thing. We've expected more, more testing expertise. Unfortunately, you have only been able to reach a slightly soft compromise from SPÖ and ÖVP or the countries. The other side, ladies and gentlemen, is the audit competence of the Court of Auditors for distributed companies. This is a problem that has accompanied us for years. I can remind you: The Court of Auditors had to avail itself of courts in order to examine the AUA which required half a billion euros in tax subsidies in the budget, in this discussion, so that we could sell them at all. If we had checked earlier, the Court of Auditors should not have gone to the courts to get the test expertise, then the AUA debacle would not have entered into this form at Bodye, then the row could have been torn around in good time and taxpayers would now have available half a billion more in the budget, even for families, including for education, also for research. This is an example of this, ladies and gentlemen, as you, with your so-called “Accounting Court Reduction Policy”, with your “Accounting Court calming policy”, with your comparatively toothless operating policy of the Court of Auditors as a whole, contribute to wasting tax money. Now we have a slight correction, but we need a much more massive one. We also had a correction with regard to the examination of the distributed companies. Yes, this is possible now if there is a decisive influence. Just, I'm excited about the first case where we're going to discuss again: What Is ‘Determining Influence’? This will be the sample of nails as to how seriously you take it with the audit powers of the Court of Auditors and also with the control task of Parliament. That's what I'm doing at my closing point: You often see an agenda for the National Council plenary sessions, where we have the discussion of the Court of Auditors' audit reports almost exclusively at the end of the agenda, mostly as a kind of midnight deposit. This positioning of audit results on the agenda is about drawing positive conclusions from the discussion for the future or, on the other hand, finally taking action to ensure that tax money is really used efficiently, this positioning of Court of Auditors reports at the end of the agenda is also something unbearable for me. We should also make a reform here. We do not need a legislator to do this, we do not need a decision here, because we only need a more controllable agenda of the National Council in the President. This is one of my main concerns, which I will come to speak on this evening again, because this is about tax money, about €300 million, which the ÖBB have put in the sand. And you don't want to discuss this until midnight! No, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9270	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the last speakers on this item on the agenda. Mr Windholz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for your support. Mr State Secretary! High house! The extension of the test competence has been discussed here for a very long time. Now there is a result, but too much joy should not come to SPÖ and ÖVP, because that is just a small step. If you listened carefully to Mr Molterer, it was noted that he also said that this was not a final step, and who knows where we would be going in two years. Dear representatives of the government parties, with a little more courage you could have taken a far bigger step today, because from 25 to 71 cities to be examined, knowing that 2 300 communities and more will not be able to enjoy this, that is not exactly a famous leaf – but after all, the direction is right, and of course we want to support it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As mayor, I can tell you about the situation of the municipalities: It applies to all communities that from a financial point of view they rather stand with their backs to the wall. And the tight cash registers give rise to hope that you get advice. In this case, free advice is unfortunately only provided for 71 municipalities. [[Call the ÖVP:103!]] In this context, I can say that we naturally support the supplementary proposal submitted by the Greens and the FPÖ with the aim of establishing the examination of four more municipalities per country. At least four municipalities per state should be given the opportunity to consult free of charge by the Court of Auditors. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Even as mayor, I say, I'm glad when there are exams. Do you know what my first act of office was when I took over the mayor's office? – I asked for a special audit of the finances, and as a result, I have been confirmed that many things can be further driven forward, namely when showing maladministration. I call you a case that, in my opinion, is symbolic: There was a mayor with us, who was not approved by the supervisory authority because of the high debt. Nevertheless, the projects were implemented, and there was a special agreement with the exporting company in which an interest payment was agreed, and then one said: If we get a loan or if the miracle occurs that we have surpluses, then we will pay it! This was a total of €463,000 with a decent budget of €2.4 million. This has already been shown by the supervisory authority years ago, with the result that nothing has happened at all. – It was almost an invitation to the mayor to continue if it is tolerated anyway, and he has continued to do so – to the detriment of the population. There was nothing to feel about sparingness, effectiveness and economy. I expect such additional testing expertise to be cleaned up with such things! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I do not want to assume that we have also been involved in party politics and have said, let us do this differently in the future. – These things belong to merciless demonstrations, and today’s decision is a real step, with all the praises I have heard today for mayor and parish mandatare; it is true that there is hardly any more that can be found for these offices. The most important thing on this day is that the citizens who pay the taxpayers finally have confidence that the Court of Auditors can also examine, because the Court of Auditors is always on the side of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9350	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9371	Mr President. High house! – No, on the contrary, a first praise! [[Abg. May. Gässner:... Gemeindeschmpungen!]] The times when the communities in the ABGB are still equal to the unmistakable and the weak are over. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] – It was the beginning of the 19th century. ==References== In the first version of the ABGB one still had a relatively weak idea of municipal autonomy. But it was different. If you look at the financial speculations of some communities, especially larger communities, which are now coming to the custodian during the financial crisis, or at the prestigious projects that have already been mentioned today – Mr. Bucher and other speakers of the political groups have already mentioned some of them – where mayor monuments have often been financed by outsourced companies, which has led to a precarious situation in some communities, then you have to conclude – and therefore we have also mentioned this – that it is necessary, precisely because of the financial crisis, because of the financial speculation, to implement an extension of audit competence soon once – that is why our deadline request at one of the last meetings so that we can continue and not push the question of extending the audit competence of the Court of Auditors to the long bank. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, especially respect for the current control, is clear: Today, someone has said that the National Supervisory Board is making the local authorities the robbers, and unfortunately this is true, and if the local government had the same color as the majority of the land day or the state government, it has often been necessary to note that it has been looked away and some have been tolerated with a greater range. If I look at the fact that the national courts only need to be expanded now, this makes me optimistic. – This is a side effect of today’s template. Ladies and gentlemen, you must admit – all the mayors, including the colleague from the forest district, who has previously praised the internal control of the communities – that internal, community autonomous democratic control does not work at all! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hornek and Mr Rädler]] This does not depend on whether you are graciously making an opposition representative the chairman of a control committee or not. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, the question of what can be controlled and what is in a report is still a question of the majority – and this is usually the majority of the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen in the Waldviertel! That is, the mayor checks himself in the final effect. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is therefore necessary that a forced audit of the Court of Auditors is carried out on general grounds. This will have a general-preventive character, and then you have standards, then you have comparisons, what is permitted in a community and what is not. The community – although not always the mayor, but the community – and also the local authority, will have to consider whether it will tolerate some sluggishness if the Court of Auditors does not offer tolerance in case of similar cases. It will develop a professional saying practice – free of charge – which means that it is also a form of consultation, that is to say, professional advice, as Mr Windholz has already said, and it should strengthen the savings potential of the communities and be better eroded. Finally, the principle of legality – at least the awareness of it – should be strengthened, because, ladies and gentlemen, if a mayor in the Burgenland – and this is probably not an individual case – calls false, votes false, and then sees no reason to withdraw – it is, I think, by chance someone was of the ÖVP, but it could also have been someone of any other political group; a red one also brings it together; in Carinthia, I believe, it has once given a red that has been caught in similar things – then simply and simply lacks any awareness for the rule of law, for the rule of law. [[Abg. Rädler: And what would the Court of Auditors do?- Oh, my God!]] If you look at the construction process, then a considerable part of the gray bulbs will rise if you put it all under the bulwark of the legal principle, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore necessary for the Court of Auditors, with its audit reports in the communities, to produce a stronger sensory effect in the future, as regards the principle of legality. [[Abg. Wheelers: I don't know!]] Mr. Mayor Rädler screams: “No idea!” – I think so. Unfortunately, I have enough idea because this is one of my special fields. I must remind you again and again that, as the competent Council of State for Building Law, I have had to bring several mayors to justice, and some of them have also been sentenced. – They were all by chance from your group! [[towards ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9465	Next speaker: Mr Linder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9487	Thank you, Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. City Head of Spittal, welcome you, I am delighted! [[direction Visitor Gallery]] Mr Stadler, I do not give you the right to have the exams conducted by the mayors in the communities. [[Abg. Rädler: He was also at BZÖ once!]] The problem exists only with the testers themselves, with the testers. I have had an ÖVP test in my community during the last period, which has examined projects precisely and well, but not maliciously, and has made accompanying proposals. During this period, we again have an ÖVP test, which we must constantly call on to hold at least the mandatory meetings. So this is only a question of how committed someone is to the examination. However, I am very glad that we are taking at least the first step today, so that communities with up to 10 000 inhabitants are also tested, but that can still be only an intermediate solution, because our goal is to test all communities. But this is not in the sense that the communities have to be permanently knocked on their fingers, but because it brings us – and I am convinced as mayor – comparability and because the figures collected also give us opportunities to know in the community where we stand and whether there is really an optimal supply for the citizen. And then we also know whether we in our own community, as far as services are concerned, may be following up on other communities or whether we may be giving too much in certain areas and can no longer afford to do so at all. I liked the fact that today Mrs Steibl said that the municipalities are responsible for this and that, only: In order to know what we are responsible for and what we have to do, we should also know how we can bring the money together, how we get the financial resources or how much land resources the municipalities in other federal states receive. That's why I'm convinced: It is very important to examine, too, the competence of the Court of Auditors to work out comparative figures throughout Austria, so that we mayors in the municipalities can find the ideal solutions to the ideal projects for citizens. Mr Hornek, I do not think that the large municipalities should be examined because they are getting more money, but I believe that an examination of small communities is also a basis for the financial compensatory negotiations. I think it is not correct that the big cities per capita/per citizen get much more money than we do in the small communities. I recall that Mr. Finanzminister Pröll said this year at the municipal day in Graz that he would be working to ensure that the small communities benefit from the financial compensation negotiations – and that it does not always have to be that one receives in Vienna the double and triples of a citizen of a small community. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] I hope that, if the Court of Auditors is able to draw up comparative figures, the graded population key will also be corrected in the financial settlement negotiations. In conclusion: I mean, my colleague, herbs, that there is still a great need for action in terms of social security in the communities, as well as the social security of mayors. I myself am in the comfortable situation – as many of you here – in addition to the Mayor's office also have a Members' salary, but for a small community today it is difficult to get a mayor who is not an official; perhaps this is a self-employed person who can somehow handle it in his own business. However, an ordinary worker can no longer afford to be mayor in a small community today! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must work together – and across all party borders – so that it is still possible for communities to be run as small and important administrative units by good, yes, excellent mayors.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9562	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the reporting is not required. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 986 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 987 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 988 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the Court of Auditors Act, the Constitutional Court Act and the Administrative Court Act into 989 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Musiol, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Since both the present draft law and the said supplementary or amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall first proceed to the vote on the supplementary request of the honourable Members. Musiol, Mag. Stefan, colleagues, the introduction of a new Z 1a in Art. 1 to the content. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who advocate a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Musiol, Mag. Mr Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, on Art. 1 Z 2 and Art. 2 Z 12. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree to this draft law at the third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[11:57:44]] 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1313/A by Mr Mag. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Albert Steinhauser, Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law establishing a federal law on the establishment of the fund for the repair of the Jewish cemeterys in Austria and amending the National Fund Act (990 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9705	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs Lueger's speech. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9732	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly! The Federal Law, which is available for decision today, deals with the establishment of the fund to repair the Jewish cemeteries and at the same time with the amendment of the National Fund Act. 65 years after the Holocaust, nine years after the signing of the Washington Agreement and after almost ten years of discussions and disputes of competence between the Federal Government, countries and communities, we could become a positive one today. The conclusion is what would be another step towards a positive analysis of our history. To history: Jewish tombs are never dissolved according to religion, but exist permanently. That is why a solution was simply required, and that is why this draft is now also a paper that we can develop further. Through the signing of the Washington Agreement – a contract under international law – Austria has become known for its symbolic compensation and at the same time has assured itself to accept the support and, above all, renovation of the guarded Jewish cemeteries. The national competence situation has made this joint effort by the federal, state and local authorities quite simply necessary in order to be able to do so. In autumn 2008, it was started to do the preparatory work for the renovation and finally also for the cost estimate. On the example of Vienna, I can say that for the Währing cemetery, historian Tina Walzer was then assigned to raise and record these about 8,000 graves. At the time, costs of this preliminary project amounted to €300 000, which were also paid by the National and Future Funds, both of which were funded and fed from federal funds. On the basis of these preliminary surveys and, ultimately, of the IKG's estimate of the estimated costs, the Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann invited us in December of the previous year, where the federal government, the countries of Lower Austria and Vienna and also the Israeli cultural community met in order to reach an agreement on reorganisation. Even then, of course, the appeal was that it could not only be the two federal states that should take care of it, but also the other federal states should be aware of the obligation to join and participate in the Jewish cultural, religious heritage very easily. The agreement was reached in January of this year, at the time also adopted by all the political groups, and a corresponding resolution was formulated at the time. Today, with the adoption of the draft law, which is now in place, we could take another step. It was also at the time that the requested fund, which is now being set up, was to be established at the National Council, whatever will happen. Over the next 20 years, the federal government will provide a million € each. The Fund will also be open to third parties. The IKG will also be required to allocate funds corresponding to those of the Federal Government. The benefits of the Fund will only be provided if the local authorities commit themselves even after the renovation, simply to continue to be responsible for the maintenance for 20 years. The Advisory Board will control the whole thing. The members of the Advisory Board also have the opportunity to teach historians and experts, the board will continue to advise on the ongoing maintenance and simply accompany the projects. A very positive sign for me in the committee was that there was simply unanimity at that time. Today's draft law is a very clear sign that Austria is not only aware of its responsibility, but quite simply a further step. That is why we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9804	Mr Neugebauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9826	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, 2010 is rich in commemorative days. Even today before the beginning of the meeting, we thought of the establishment of the Federal Constitution and our first meeting, accompanied by the President of the 90th anniversary. Last week's commemoratives quite different: 72 years ago, the pogroms began on our Jewish fellow citizens, horrendous, yes disastrous signs of what was yet to come. It is therefore right that the Republic of Austria confesses itself to preserve the cultural Jewish heritage. This has been done with the 2001 Washington Agreement. It was the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer that initiated these negotiations. I would like to thank all those who have conducted these negotiations in the first place to the former official – not yet State Secretary – Dr. Winkler and the unfortunately dead ambassador Searcharipa. They both did excellent work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] This Washington Agreement has committed Austria to make an efficient contribution to the restoration and conservation of Jewish cemeteries. The current current government programme provides for a joint effort of the countries, municipalities, the National Fund, but also third parties with a view to restoring and preserving the cemeteries. This National Council adopted a resolution in January of this year and also stopped the other federal states to be duly aware of their obligation to preserve this cultural and religious heritage. I am very grateful that this has succeeded, and I know that it is Minister of Finance Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllimmer has been a personal concern to make available the appropriate resources. The Cultusgemeinschaft will help yours to do this. Finally, the municipal institutions are also invited, after restoration with best powers, to ensure a proper survival of this stone witness of an destroyed culture, but not only from memory for the deceased, but also out of a very professional consideration. For biographical research, they are an indispensable source because many archives have been irrevocably lost during the Second World War. With this today's decision-making process, we are in line with another initiative that Austria has set itself in the context of the preparation of an incorruptible past. We can say a little with satisfaction that the chief negotiator of the other side, Stuart Eizenstat, said, chief negotiator of the Washington Agreement: Historians will say Austria has done a lot. That's not the end point, but another milestone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9883	Mr Mag. Stefan is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9904	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, today a commitment has been made by Austria almost ten years ago in the Washington Agreement. For ten years it took, despite all the demands, how important this is and how essential it is for Austria and for the reputation of Austria in the world. But obviously, when it comes to money, it is not so easy to come to a solution. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] However important it is to find such a solution today, for example, the example of how the municipality of Vienna or the country of Vienna – is identical – has behaved in recent years when it came to the Währinger Jewish Cemetery. This one's gone. In the Second World War, a part was sanded, and on the part that was cut, a municipal building was even built in the 1960s – of course under a red housing council – called “Arthur-Schnitzler-Hof”. When the FPÖ, but also the Greens, have repeatedly also made applications for the first time to be restored to this cemetery and the second – a request from the FPÖ – at least one memorial sign is attached to this Arthur Schnitzler court, all these applications have been rejected. The Council of Culture has also said that we are not responsible for hanging tables somewhere. [[Call the FPÖ: Unheard!]] So that was the reaction. It is seen that, although there are changes, the actual behavior is often quite different. We have a small criticism of the fund which is now being set up. It has already been said that third-party funds can also be spent. However, these third-party funds are credited only to the owners of the Jewish cemeteries and not to the covenant which has the same level of performance. This does not seem to us to be justified in fact, because these third-party funds are not at all likely to be directly allocated to the League. If, for example, the HTL Krems as a federal school provides services, it would be logical in itself to calculate this to the federal government. This is a criticism we practice. In fact, however, we agree because an unsatisfying state, namely that of not having a regulation within the meaning of the Washington Agreement, is being ended. The future will then show whether, in practice, the fund set up here will actually bring the desired success.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9939	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e9960	Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that this joint legislative proposal is in place today. The previous story has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. In 2001, there was the Washington Agreement, and it has now taken almost nine years for us to comply with this Washington Agreement. We were no longer sure that we wanted to comply with this Washington agreement. It was then a green initiative together with the cultus community, which obviously again a little movement into the debate underway In the case of disputes of competence, the responsibility has been shifted from one side to another. We now have a draft law that at least gives rise to hope that it will actually come to restoration and conservation. I am so careful, however, because the law offers a solution that already presents the danger that communities and federations will shift their responsibilities back to each other. This law requires that, when a Jewish cemetery is renovated, the communities at the same time assume the obligation to ensure 20 years of preservation. Now you don't misunderstand me, in principle it makes sense that a cemetery, which is being renovated, will then also be preserved. Everything else would be reckless. But what must not be forgotten is that this makes the renovation dependent on the fact that the communities actually have an interest in the preservation of the cemeteries. The previous history makes me at least extremely skeptical. If we are wrong, nothing will change because there is no renovation because the communities do not accept the conservation obligation. The club members of the parliamentary groups have already received mail from the municipalities, namely from the municipality of Baden. This writes, at the very moment, on the 4th. Reference to this provision – I quote – in November: This provision would indirectly impose long-term maintenance obligations on the local authorities concerned, the amount of which cannot be estimated. However, especially in the present time, this does not appear to be feasible, since the financial situation of most cities and communities, including those of the city of Baden, is extremely tense. - Quote. If this is not an individual example of what I am not going to expect, then it was said that the communities do not accept this conservation obligation and it does not result in any renovation. And one has to say that the municipality of Baden is a relatively unwarranted community that has already set up numerous activities in connection with Jewish cultural institutions. That is not to say that the municipality of Baden has no interest, but it is exemplary that this example shows that the communities, obviously – and we all know this and also the mayors in this House – may not have the room for it because of the strained financial situation. Therefore, it would have been better for the Federation to take full responsibility and also to secure the financial resources for conservation. I'm just saying, In principle, the arguments that come do not convince. First: The historical dimension is not appropriate, as I believe, for competence discussions. We had 220 000 Jews in Vienna in 1938. After the Holocaust it was 7 500. The fact that the Republic has a certain historical responsibility due to the Holocaust to ensure its preservation, because the descendants have become victims of the Holocaust, understands itself. Secondly, After the war, the Republic also took over the preservation and care of the graves of war. Don't misunderstand me, I don't want to question that. But I believe that at least one should at least step in to ensure that the war graves, where the preservation works very well, and the Jewish cemeteries should be treated equally. That is exactly what we are proposing. We have said that we are making a constitutional provision, according to which both for the graves of war and for the Jews It is the responsibility of the federal cemeterys. And then we make a law according to which the covenant comes up for the renovation and also takes care of the preservation. – This would have been financially feasible for the federal government. It could not be approached. Given the historical dimension of responsibility, it is simply not understandable that a clear solution is not provided. I'm just saying, it's not about the fact that negative prophecies are being fulfilled, I wish that it works. Moral appeals alone will not be enough, however, Mr State Secretary. You have in the Committee on my question: What do we do if the congregations cannot stand up for it or want to come up?, said, then we will talk to the congregations. You know we've been talking to the communities for nine years now. We wouldn't have gone on with moral appeals. I believe that our proposal would have been objectively meaningful, would have led to a result where we fulfil historical responsibility and where it does not depend on local mayors having financial room for play or, on historical responsibility, provide for the restoration of the cemeteries. In this sense, I still wish the law much success. But be sure, we will look very closely at the effect of the law, and if not, you will soon discuss a change of law with us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10037	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10058	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Of course, the debate can now also be used to talk about what would be the case and about constitutional changes. But I believe that we should simply take today as he is, take this decision as he is. It is the end and at the same time the beginning – because it still has to be implemented – of a very long path. We have heard all this in the discussion today: from the Washington Agreement of 2001, signed by the then government of Schüssel – Riess-Passer, an obligation to reorganise, maintain the Jewish cemeteries, which therefore represents not only a historic obligation, but also, for us, a commitment to the implementation of this Washington Agreement, in the end, of course, to the Jewish community in Austria, but above all to the victims of National Socialism, which is to be remembered today and especially in the period of November-Pogrome 1938 in these days and weeks. Thus, this law is also passed at the right time, at least this year. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State who, at the beginning of the year, also promised us that this will be the year. When we discussed the joint resolution in January, we insisted very strongly that we should set up the fund this year, whatever happens with today's decision. Thank you to all those who have also worked there, to all those involved, federal government, state of Vienna, Lower Austria and also to the Israeli cultural community, which, as it were, takes over half of the corresponding expenses. At this point it should also be said that we will also see whether these conservation obligations will be respected and reviewed at the end of the day. Because now – and this will be the first review – the owners' requests have to come. After this hopefully rapid wave of applications, one will see whether the reorganisation and implementation of the content can be started very quickly. In any case, this would be quite in the sense of our intention, which we have always held and maintained from 2001 to this year – unfortunately far too long, that is, nine years – and always defended. I would have liked to make one more request, I said this in January, carefully: I consider the contribution of the municipality of Vienna to be worthy of discussion compared to the other financial and economic benefits and grants. When you consider that the total cost of renovation is €40 million, but the municipality of Vienna is just €500 000, I think, the municipality of Vienna should consider whether this is not worthy of improvement or at least to discuss. Now I look deeply at my colleague Glavischnig, since I know that she too has fought very strongly for this concern of the restoration of Jewish cemeteries. You now have a red-green coalition in Vienna, which is also your responsibility in Vienna. And perhaps you can also use this responsibility, which you take over there, to improve on this issue, because I really believe that 500 000 € from the city of Vienna compared to the state of Lower Austria, the federal and the Israeli cultural community are simply too few and the amount should be improved. I think that would be a concern that would be correct and important. Otherwise, I hope that the fund, which is now also located in Parliament, will start its work very quickly and that the restoration of the cemeteries and their restoration can finally begin. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10103	I now give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10125	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's rare that someone says thanks. I would like to thank Mr Westenthaler for thanking him for the timely presentation. My previous speakers and my previous speaker have already raised the essential points in the field of content. The fact was that through the years there was a dispute of competence over who is responsible, not only for the maintenance, but also for the financially much more severe part of the repair, so to speak, the repair of the cemeteries, because there has been nothing happening over decades. After this years of competence dispute – that is, a negative dispute of competence: who is not responsible and wants to shift responsibility? – there were first some informal preliminary talks last year and then, shortly before Christmas, an event to which the Federal Chancellor had invited and in which the Vice-Cancecian, the head of state and mayor of Vienna, the head of state of Lower Austria and, above all, the representatives of the Cultusgemeinde and the President of the Cultusgemeinde took part. There a result was fixed, which had been prepared in advance, namely to set up a fund to which the Confederation makes money available and enters into third-party funds as well. This was expressly accepted. One could even go a bit further and say that it was also stimulated by the cultus community, also using the model that the repair is carried out over these funds and that the maintenance remains with the communities as a result. Mr Steinhauser said that I had a moral appeal in the Constitutional Committee if the communities did not do anything that would lead to letters coming in advance, perhaps trying to get rid of a commitment. It is not unusual in democracy or in a legislative process that discussions are held with those responsible when the decision is taken. As it looks, the decision is welcomedly taken unanimously. The fact that discussions are then held is also something that is essential or part of democracy. There's nothing special about that. I also assume – and I am very optimistic – that the solution we have now found and discussed in great detail – with the countries concerned, with the communities represented by the Church, also and especially with the Cultus community, is a solution that is simply, for the sake of respect for the victims of National Socialism, as it is also in the explanations, but not only to the victims, but of course also to the survivors and descendants, important, necessary and urgent for moral reasons. Unfortunately, it has taken so long; I can't do this or we can't reverse it afterwards. I am happy that we have managed to do it now and that we have also achieved a solution that – we will discuss a lot more about administrative efficiency in the near future – is also wise from this point of view: We are not creating a completely new facility, but we are connecting it to an institution that works very well, namely the National Fund. I think that this is a very good solution. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed and look forward to a unanimous decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10173	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10194	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all of my colleagues from the Constitutional Committee for having taken a unanimous decision in the Constitutional Committee. We have heard it today from the President of the Council at the beginning of the sitting, but also from the Second President in his speech, and I also say this to the address where I think we could have told ourselves everything in the committee. Today, one could actually have saved every sidestep – as did colleagues Westenthaler – because I believe it is in our common interest that this is finally decided and regulated. I would just like to say that if a general state – as we have already heard – needs 55 years today to reach the Washington agreement, then there is nothing to add to it. That we are then discussing – Mr Steinhauser, 90 years ago they have already discussed exactly the same questions because of the Constitution, which we have heard today. I Just think that the general state and we Austrians simply have a commitment to those who all died innocently in this madness of the Holocaust, and also to their descendants. I understand, of course, if we break it down in the discussion, but I reject it. I say that clearly. Now to discuss whether a city garden office uses a few € for anything in a cemetery or not, you should, I think, save yourself, that should definitely belong to the past. Thank you, Secretary of State. As Mr Westenthaler has already said, months ago it was agreed that we will decide this year, and it has kept everything. I think it's a good solution. For the sake of good order, I would like to say the following, Mr Westenthaler: Vienna volunteered to pay a lot of money before 1993, and between 1993 and 2000 there were millions, in Schilling, of course, no question at all. I think we can save ourselves everything. Let us take it seriously, let us address this question – as we have discussed it all the time – with raised head, but let us also go to this issue in memory and with respect for what happened then. I should like to thank everyone for acting unanimously on this decision, which I assume to be.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10237	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10258	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There are 63 Jewish cemeteries throughout Austria. 30 of these are not in sufficient condition, which is of course very worrying – that is the status of 2009 – and the decay of these Jewish cemeteries is increasing. We have already heard of the legal basis today. In 2001, Austria committed itself in the Washington Agreement to make the restoration of the Jewish cemeteries first and to support them financially. I believe that this is important not only because of political and moral responsibility and our historical past, but also because of the following: Many descendants of the members of the Jewish community in Austria who died under the Holocaust have no longer returned to Austria. This is, of course, a reason why these graves have fallen apart, that the cemeteries have fallen, and they have also come into this state by devastation and destruction. Mrs Lueger said: Religion also requires not to abandon the graves, in principle, not to grind and disintegrate the graves, but simply to preserve them. I do not think it is a matter of discussing whether it is late and whether nine years have passed. I believe that what has to move us together today is that there is a solution and that this solution is a five-party agreement or a five-party decision. Mr Steinhauser, you have already mentioned this in the Committee. – He's not here now, I don't see him. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser lifts his hand from his seat.]] He has already presented this with the municipalities and with the maintenance history also in the committee. I think the most important thing is that the Republic of Austria is going to work. My previous speaker said it, and I also mean: The overall state is all of us, the Republic of Austria, and we are all responsible. I think that if 20 million € are spent over the next 20 years and another 20 million € by the Israeli Cultus community for this project repair/rehabilitation of Jewish cemeteries, then it is also a commitment of the communities. From these communities come also the Jewish families, who lie in these graves and who partly no longer have descendants. I believe that there is also moral and political responsibility in the communities. Local cemeterys must also be maintained. There the paths need to be maintained, the grass needs to be mowed, it needs to be removed weeds. I believe that these maintenance work can and must also be able to carry on and carry the communities in the sense of common political responsibility. I also believe that the countries should be here for the motivation and support of the communities so that this joint project can take place so that the communities can be motivated and the money to repair the Jewish cemeteries can also be retrieved. In this sense, of course, we must thank all those who agree to this today so that we parliamentarians can also show that we can decide together on such things, which have also contributed to our history in Austria, and we can reach a solution here together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10306	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10328	Mr President. High house! This is really a successful example of the recent process of history in Austria. There is a unanimous request by which we try to maintain and maintain the Jewish cemeteries through a fund, based on an agreement, the Washington Agreement, to which it came under Riess-Passer – actually under BZÖ’s government participation at that time. But also allow me to point out the following in this sensitive matter and in view of the fact that many young people are present at the visitor gallery. Don't misunderstand me, I don't want to calculate and not to counter it. I would just like to point out – also as a sales speaker – that recent history in Europe also shows other examples of how people are being dealt with here in our common house, in our Europe. For example, I should like to remind you of the Beneš decrees of the former Czechoslovakia, which are illegal to human rights, which are still human injustices in this EU. I can point to the AVNOJ provisions in Croatia, where I insist – and I am sure that you will agree – that we will really deal correctly with these AVNOJ provisions before Croatia joins the EU. I can also point to the recent incidents in the city of Laško in Slovenia, where the so-called "bad pit" was found in the previous year, the Huda Jama, with 2,000 to 3,000 skeletons. At the time, the President had only said in a first reaction that this would be politically secondary, but he then quite ready to join with Austria in this recent story – that is where the Tito-Partisans committed mass murder after the Second World War had – to work up. I was a little disappointed when our Federal Chancellor Faymann – you can tell him that – went down in August 2009 and found no word of a call towards the Slovenian government to provide information here, for example, to make excuses. I really don't think that's all right, and that would be our thing now. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So I think the crimes of the 20th. Not only do we relate to our state territory, but they also exist in other EU countries. It will be the common task – I think the time is ripe for it – to solve many more crimes, with historian commissions, with experts, not with political assessments. The issue is that we are dealing with this most recent story with a pitifully, but that we also enforce a criminal prosecution, if it is still possible. It is about finding words of regret, but also the question of restitution in these countries, also for Austrians or for Carinthians in Slovenia, to be explained accordingly. We owe this to the dignity of the victims, but also to their descendants, which is our moral obligation. Finally, I do not want to provoke, but I still say it quite clearly: There can be no collective public debt for murders and atrocities, but there is certainly a collective responsibility for the investigation of these acts to learn from them. I call on the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor in particular to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10382	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10403	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is always pleasant to come to the pult as a tenth speaker in a unanimous decision. One has the opportunity to hear the arguments of the previous speakers and also to confirm them mentally, internally. In reality, I would also like to express my pride at the fact that the arguments that have been put forward can, to a large extent, also be taken by me. It is also very important not to miss out on the concerns that have been expressed here by individuals, including with regard to the observation of how the effects of this law will be made. I can only say one thing: When it comes to the fact that the communities may not be entrusted with fulfilling their responsibilities, we also have a large part to contribute to promoting education so far that a moral obligation, which I have already set up and established in the communities, to fulfil the task and to maintain these graves, is going on and going for the future. The story was torn by individual speakers, I don't need to repeat that. It is a deep moral obligation for all of us to take this path that we have decided together in such a way that later generations can say after us: It was a law that brought about an achievement that we can be proud of together. Although four governments have moved into the country after the 2001 Washington agreement, we should also say: We have managed, we have found a common way, involved federal, national and local authorities. The joint responsibility will ultimately show whether the laws we are making are also worth what we are proposing, namely history to be aware and to cope with the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10443	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10464	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In 2001, the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel signed the Washington Agreement. He has thus made an important change which is being implemented today within the framework of this fund for the renovation and renovation of the Jewish cemeterys in Austria. There are 63 Jewish cemeteries throughout Austria, all of which – we have already heard – are in a very sad state. Some 20 percent of these cemeteries have fallen to an extreme extent, including the Währinger cemetery, which according to the Bundesdenkmalamt is in such a bad condition that, if the stones are not renovated within the next two years, the data and important facts of history are also lost. It's really high time something happened. Another example is the Jewish cemetery in St. Pölten, which was founded in 1859 and was “arised” in 1938. There is no more tombstone in this cemetery today. Here is the Jewish Institute for the Conservation of History, which has launched a project and set up a monument to the history of this cemetery. I believe it is very important that this past be preserved. As has been said, the Federation takes over the renovation and restoration of the Jewish cemeteries – an important step – and the Federation and countries are required to carry out the maintenance. I would also like to mention the national competence in this regard. It is important that the State of Austria acts as a whole, not only in the important questions of the past, but also in those of the present and the future. As an disabled speaker, allow me to mention also in this context that the topic of care will be very important in the next few years. Here, too, countries are required to sit at a table with the federal government and to develop a concept for a care fund to ensure that care can be financed and guaranteed in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10501	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 990 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask for your third reading approval with a sign on this matter. – That is unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[12:41:00]] 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 1295/A by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of Parliament on Prime Minister's loan in accordance with Art. 142 para. 2 lit.b B-VG against Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann(991 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1296/A by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of Parliament, on ministerial support in accordance with Art. 142 para. 2 lit.b B-VG against the Federal Minister for Finance Deputy Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll(992 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10574	We come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held in one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10601	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, also at the gallery! It is about today that the Federal Government simply took out breaking laws, in this case even the Constitution. On the basis of very clear arguments, the budget has not been presented at the time laid down in the Constitution, i.e. the Constitution has broken, with the arguments, one needs more documents, one does not yet know exactly how the situation of the world economy develops and so on. In reality, this was, of course, a purely tactical approach. One wanted to save a discussion before the country elections in Styria and Vienna, but with very questionable results, as one has seen: It didn't even pay off. What is now available as a budget will be discussed for a long time, and the mutual blockade will not have improved after these country elections. So there was nothing special about it at all, but a very weak result came out. This morning we heard how important it is that we have this Constitution – today it is exactly 90 years ago that it was adopted in this House – and how important the rule of law is that everything has to be done on the basis of laws here. Who can do more about this than the government itself? She doesn't just have to comply with the laws, no, she even has to execute them. Therefore, there is also an explicit provision in the Constitution which states that there is the possibility of a ministerial contribution against the members of the Federal Government for a violation of law by the decision of the National Council. That is exactly what we have done, namely against Federal Chancellor Faymann and Finance Minister Pröll, because they both simply violate a law here at the front and thus expressly violate the provision of the Constitution within the meaning of the kind. 142 para. 2 lit. (b) have been completed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is now up to Parliament, and we Members, not to like this. I hope that this is not the party-political reflection of the government parties who need to protect their representatives who come from their parties. In the sense of a self-confident Parliament, it would be necessary for us to explain together: It can't be that the government is so simply turning over with dubious arguments – apparently in the belief, there was no consequence – and saying that we don't care about the provisions of the Constitution, which are quite clear, we don't accept them. It would therefore be very important that we stand together in the sense of a self-confident Parliament and support this ministerial support. I call on all of you, especially the representatives of the government parties, not to leave us alone as opposition here, but to support us in the sense of the Constitution and the rule of law, which was so expressly proclaimed today in the early days.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10644	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10665	Actually, I have to tell my previous speaker – we have discussed this very often here –: The legislator must have thought something about it when he formulated and decided on this rule that you quoted. At the same time, however, there were no sanctions, at the same time there is a legal possibility for Parliament itself to become an initiative, and after a certain period of time the government can be presented with a proposal, and Parliament can take it and decide here. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And it can make a ministerial anchorage! That is what Parliament can do.]] If you do not come to a solution again, there is the possibility to continue working with a 12-budget from January next year. That is, the legislator has made this very clear, has foreseen it and has made it possible. But not for this reason, but for every reason the opposition believes it must bring in here, because of legal interpretations that remain left to the opposition. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Legally illegal!]] This is a normal democratic process. I do not agree with the legitimacy either. You have, of course, the political right to file a complaint here. If you have a majority, then you have a majority, and if you don't have one, you don't have one, it's the legislator's plan. Therefore, I do not fully understand – how to say – the drama of the wording that you have used here for months. You yourself have argued politically a year ago and said: The budget should not be discussed too early and decided 'because economic development is difficult to estimate, we want to look at the economic forecasters. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Dr Rosenkranz]] - We looked at them. The prognostics have predicted that there will be an economic upturn, that there will be more employment, and this has naturally influenced the design of the budget for the next year. That is to say, we have here a mixture of a legal interpretation which we see as quite legitimate and the will of the opposition to bring our interpretation into a synthesis. That's what we did. In this way, I think, we have taken into account the democratic process in the interests of citizens and the result budget. That's what the opposition knows. All the more so, I am surprised that she is now constantly presenting the same arguments and running the risk of getting the same answers over and over again; for it is a legal interpretation that we have, and it is a quite legitimate legal interpretation that you have. The vote will take place then, and we will see how it will be voted. We stay with it: We believe it was so best in the interests of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10724	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10745	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there are interpretations – that's right, Josef Cap. The question is only a relatively lonely one. I can only remind you: The point of view that we have already presented here several times does not only share experts, but also constitutional judges and professors. But let us remain in the political field: The Federal President has also said that this is “no provision for discretion”. The President of the National Council sees this quite similar. So we can really give it to ourselves, but you just have to keep quoting it so that it is kept in place again and again. We feel on the safe side. That is why the two ministerial contributions are justified – as I mean, well-founded. And they're also good and correct. The fact that the Constitutional Legislator himself has made provision for the fact that he has an incompetent federal government is, I mean, no indication that the Federal Government may be unable from the outset with start and Gaudi. That is not what the Constitutional Legislator meant. Otherwise, wherever we have regulations, we have to do something, and then we have to conclude further rules on how to deal with the condition: That's legitimate anyway. – If you want to come back to the famous Hendldieb, you should steal Hendln in this way, because the legal situation also foresees how to proceed afterwards. It can't be like that! By the way: I would also like to point out that Parliament is able to jump in for the sake of replacement, and I believe that it is pure provocation, especially when it is pointed out by this pult. As a clubman, you should know exactly how limited and low – for this task as well as not available – the possibilities of Members or clubs to present a full budget here. In fact, we have to talk about something quite different, that in Austria Parliamentaryism is really being raised, that we have to take a lot of expertise away from the ministries, if we do not want to blow up the apparatus, and once we have to give Parliament and Parliament the opportunity to carry out what you demand from us indirectly. That is why I find this argument a bit perfid. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] But this is unfortunately the case of Mr Cap in such places – if not used to it, it occurs in a certain amount, that is, whenever he has to relinquish himself in such a way, in order to defend something that he described quite differently three years ago. But in this class he is distinguished. I don't want to say anything about the budget matter myself. In any case, it is striking how the procedure can obviously influence the content. Then: It's a merchandism. The craftsman Murks comes about – and that has its own It is a very good thing to do – because time has gone out to you. They obviously didn't work over the summer, even though it was declared. They have indeed speculated with it and kept it so that before the two country elections there is as little ministry as possible, so that nothing goes out. It would have been just the opposite, if you had stood up and said: We are proposing these measures. The others would have said: That's what we're gonna do. Then you could have asked the opposition during the election campaign: How do you want to finance that? This would be an interesting discussion, which is always reasonable to voters. This has not helped you in any way. Only: So it cannot remain, for that is exactly what contributes to the increase of political unculture! It must already be said that in many other countries – in quotation marks – “Western” European countries, a government that intends and starts to pass these dates, although not even a federal election is in place, relinquishing; for this is refusal of work, refusal of democracy and, above all, refusal of transparency, if one does not put things on the table. The whole thing didn't even help you. You only gave yourself an extra knee shot with a start. To be honest, I can't imagine – and there's just this little connection to the contents – that you could have wanted it so much, that's probably only happened to you because of the time scarcity in Loipersdorf. Then: The family package or this reduction package at this point for these small financial effects in individual measures, with so little budgetary ambition, with such a small throw, with a Murks actually to do such great damage to target groups that are perhaps or supposedly particularly important to the ÖVP, I almost have to believe that something has happened to you. I can't imagine you doing so stupidly. You've probably put this into your own hands, because you've run out of time. We'll see how far you'll end up with this until the end of the year. I don't have much hope for you to be able to clean up something big, because the whole work is still the same little-spirited attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10819	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10840	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have the matter in recent weeks and months already, and I would mean, also in detail and sufficiently discussed, but should be, again: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] The order in the federal constitution, concrete art. In paragraph 51, point (b) is replaced by the following: 3 B-VG, the aim is to ensure that the budget in Parliament is put forward in good time, that Parliament has sufficient opportunity to deal with the budget, and as a third party, that it is ensured that the budget is also made available in good time on 1 January. January of the year in question may be in force. All of this is guaranteed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is to say, the meaning and spirit of this legal provision is respected by the Federal Government. Although the letter of the law does not correspond to the letter of the law in this case, I have already said: It is a regulation, and this regulation also includes alternatives to it if the Federal Government... – And there are no reasons given in the Constitutional Law, so it is permitted to interpret it. In this case, the law only norms the German Government's own-initiative monopoly. It loses this if it does not comply with this regulation ten weeks before the end of the year, and it goes to Parliament. Mr Kogler, if you call this provision cynical, why did you then agree to this provision when it came to the B-VG and budgetary law? – You voted in favour of this provision in the law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I think it was really right to make this shift. The result is that, in the knowledge of the current economic figures and economic developments, we are now able, in other words, to re-establish our budget more quickly, and that with measures which are less effective on two sides than originally adopted : [[Abg. Blow: Continue indebtedness!]] We must demand fewer taxes for people than was originally assumed, and on the other hand we must also take less in terms of cutting reduction measures than was originally feared and felt necessary. I think everyone can benefit from this short, minor shift. I think that we are on the safe side with the budget and can decide on the right numbers and measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10905	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10926	Mr President. High house! Mr Kopf, not the determination of the kind. 51a B-VG is cynical, but the handling of these two government parties with the federal constitution is cynical – and nothing else has said to Mr Kogler. Not the determination is cynical. It's not cynical, either, if someone's in a parking lot, doesn't drive his car away and it's towed off. He can't say it wouldn't be a parking lot anymore because the car was towed off. That's exactly how you argue! You have the obligation to submit a budget within a certain period of time. You don't live up to this commitment. In the event that a government does not comply with the Constitution, the Federal Constitution creates the possibility that at least Parliament will comply with the Constitution. – From now on, so to speak, an exculpation of the federal government is a bold – and I say: cynical – dealing with the federal constitution. Nothing else has meant Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Citizens are required to pay their taxes in time. If he does not do this, he receives a seed or delay supplement, is estimated. If the citizen is required to issue his tax declarations in due time, why can't the citizen – and we represent the citizen and not the government – ask that this government submit a budget at least in time, with the taxpayers who have previously been lifted by the citizen in due time?- Oh, my God! – That’s the point, this is the moral misson. That is why the ministerial contribution is more than justified. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer, you're wrong here. In reality, Finance Ministers and Deputy Chancellor Pröll, State Secretary Lopatka and your own State Secretary, should sit here, because they – and the Federal Chancellor – bear the main responsibility for this. A federal government that so clearly and coldly overcomes time-limits – which are not available; no constitutional jurist of that Republic has told you that this time-limit is available! – can no longer demand from the citizen that he deliver the tax returns in time, ladies and gentlemen, in the future. - That's how things look. This is cynical dealing with the federal constitution. You know very well, Mr. Kopf – if not, I will explain it to you –: The Federal Government is the highest administrative body. The Federal Government submits a draft budget to the House. This is an administrative act of a supreme administrative body. As an administrative body in the pursuit of sovereign activity, the Federal Government is fully subject to the rule of law of the kind. 18 B-VG. That is, by law, it is active. It must not comply with the law, just as in the private autonomy of every citizen, but under the law it has to act. And that's exactly what you're doing, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the Prime Minister's contribution is justified: because it is the legal principle of the kind. 18 B-VG with feet to rob the entire federal constitution of its legitimacy. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have seen a flaw in this request in the fact that a party attorney is expected to hold the prosecution. Nevertheless, we will accept this request, and that is why, in order to make it clear to you that we do not take note of your constitutional abuse, your disregard for the federal constitution, your co-footing step of the principle of legality without comment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The President-in-Office was actually helpless. He could helplessly see how the Federal Government of its own party partner Faymann and the Vice-chantist Pröll, whom he praised and appointed himself, disregarded the Constitution. The President-in-Office of the Federal Republic, himself a constitutional judge, has not voted in this way – well-known constitutional judges of this Republic, even to the highest judges, by the way. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: All!]] All, yes, pardon – except for the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellor's Office, who has made an opinion. Unfortunately! Unfortunately, I have to say that. This must be noted with regard to any applications in the future at the Constitutional Court that the ministry of love is over power. But all the other constitutional judges have said very clearly that this is a clear violation of the law, and Article 142 para. 2 of our federal constitution provides for the possibility of a ministerial settlement for the naked violation of the law. And stop with this fairy tale, it's unpunished! Sanction Numero one would be: The House shall decide by a majority on a motion of censure. Sanction Numero two: The House decides on a ministerial basis – and we are now talking about it. Sanction Noumero three is that the House itself must present a budget proposal in Parliament because it does not bring the government together, ladies and gentlemen. Not the government fractions, you won't do it because you didn't want to bring it together because, I say, you had rather banal political calculations behind it and believed that the people were so stupid that they still chose the two government parties, especially in Styria the Reds and in Vienna also the Reds, if you only presented the horrors to them after the election. Faith You really do? Now you know it's not. As stupid as this federal government believes, people are not outside, ladies and gentlemen. And therefore a signal of the preservation of the citizen against the arrogance of power in the form of this ministerial anchorage.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e10996	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11017	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting how some debates are taking place, where cynicism is the case, where the opposition parties have repeatedly presented the same arguments, and what arguments have been put forward by my predecessor, Mr Stadler. It was important for the government to wait for the current economic forecasts, it was important that they were also implemented. Compared to other countries, to other savings packages, especially if I remember savings packages in times of high-economy, this savings programme may have been lower. And why? – Because revenue-based measures have also been taken that lead to a tax justice, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Let's wait a little bit longer for Portugal!]] Mr Strache is holding back today, but in the run-up to this day there was already a sharp speech about him, with a subsequent press release in October of the year, where you spoke of a political version of Max and Moritz. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] - No, Max and Moritz. If you knew exactly your press release, you would know that. In any case, in the horror scenario you're presenting here, it's also interesting to read what you said. They have said about the FPÖ that the government is planning an attack on holiday and Christmas money. Where's this attack? [[Abg. Kickl: Come on!]] You have also said that the government wants the 13th. Family aid for liquidating. Where is this liquidation, Mr. Cot? [[Abg. Strache: Don't take your measures in the family area? About mineral oil tax?]] You have said that the government is letting VAT go up. Where does this VAT go up, ladies and gentlemen? [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] You said the government wanted to install an asset tax that hits the middle class. Does this asset tax hit the middle class? Or do you mean the stock market? [[Abg. Strache: The cuts in the family area meet the middle class!]] You said the government wanted to punish the pensioners. Where is this punishment? And in this speech and in your press release, German Chancellor Faymann and Finance Minister Pröll call you a political version of Max and Moritz. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And that's why they didn't present the budget? So, actually, it's to blame!]] In a phrase, one often speaks of something between genius and insanity. With you, it is more like this between Baron Münchhausen and Wilhelm Busch. It is only the question of the role you play in this version, whether this is rather the aunt Käthe or the uncle Fritz, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, announced in the summer that we will have special meetings, you will present us with a budget. And what was there? – Summer holidays in Ibiza. We have all waited for these meetings, and you are now accusing the others, including Mr Kogler, that the government would not have worked in the summer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] As always, ladies and gentlemen, you are insecure the people who are working with this uncertainty, insidious half-truths. You probably do not know what responsibility you bear if you are working with these uncertainties over and over again. The population doesn't need an insecurer, it needs security. The content of this debate makes one clear and clear: I and my group support the government and do not agree with the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11150	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11171	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Fathers. You know, Mr. Klubobmann Cap – he's not here now, but he's addressed to the party – from a party that was so saddened by the proceedings in 1934, I would have wanted another access and above all a different way of dealing with the Constitution, because what you gave of yourself here was more than weak. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I do not even go into the breach of the constitution, but rather to the argument of red and black, why they have broken the Constitution and how they actually justify this late budget template. They have reason to believe that you have to wait for the economic data. I don't know how long you want to wait. The economic data were already known before the summer break, and Mr Kogler is already right if he has said that you have not worked over the summer, although you have announced that you are working. But it's still about very different things. You have also thrown all the promises you made during this year overboard. In January, not quite a year ago, they claimed that there would be no tax increases. Then you have noticed that is not possible, and then you have said that there is a reorganisation of the budget in a scale of € 2.8 billion, 60 percent on the expenditure side and 40 percent on the revenue side. Then you said that we must wait for the economic data, although they were already known at the time you made this statement. And then there is the fact that you have not used the extra tax revenue generated by the better economic data, which was known and which is now almost on the table, to eliminate the debt we have accumulated in infinite amount – only in this year 13 billion € – but now use them to reduce these measures of € 2.8 billion, but not on the tax side, but on the expenditure side. You are now still reducing expenditure by €500 million, but with the revenue-side tax increase you are still €1.2 billion. You now do not have a ratio of 60 : 40, but of 34 : 66, and if now these suspensions are coming, then we are at a ratio of 30 : 70. You have thrown all your promises overboard. They have not even taken their own government programme seriously up to now. For two years now, you have not implemented a single point from the government programme, which might have contributed to rehabilitating this budget. I can list x points. And something else to my previous speaker from the Red Group. You have referred to VAT. What you've increased is just mass taxes. Or what do you think who pays the €500 million of the bank tax, or what do you think who pays for the oil tax increase? This alone is 80 percent of the revenue recovery by tax increases, which are only mass taxes affecting the small and medium-sized classes. And in the savings, you were still so mean that you met exactly the ones you shouldn't meet, namely the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have not just broken the Constitution, you have even deliberately broken it. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11232	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11253	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But above all also valued listeners at the gallery! I think we can simply return from this artificial excitement to the ground of reality and reality. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If one speaks of materiality, then two instruments in the Constitution are provided for in order to create a responsibility: This is, on the one hand, the political responsibility with the request for distrust and, on the other hand, the legal responsibility with the ministerial support. And legal responsibility refers – you just have to read the Constitution – to a culpable violation of the law. [[Abg. May. Stefan: No!]] And there's no such thing here. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] This is simply not available here, so with this request for ministerial support, you are not only politically on the wrong steamer – but of course it is for you to make the request – but also legally on the wrong steamer. Why is that so? Why is there simply no violation of the law provided for in Article 142 B-VG as a ministerial ground? – There is – and this has been stressed several times earlier in the debate – a different quality of standards, and especially Mr Stefan knows very well, he simply does not want to know in this debate. There are standards that require behaviour and sanctions, but there are also standards that are simply supposed to bring in some sort of order. This is the point in the Constitution of establishing a chronology, and the Constitution has also provided for several variants in this chronology. The one variant is that the Federal Government submits this draft proposal eight weeks or ten weeks before. If it does not, then there is the other variant, that Parliament itself creates a budget or the Federal Government later. In this case too, the Constitution explicitly states that the Federal Government will be able to submit a draft budget later and then the National Council will be able to deal with it. And that's what we do. What it is about – and I believe that this is important for you to see – is that a budget is presented and can be properly consulted and then decided on in good time. All this is happening. There is another reason why this infringement of law, which would justify a ministerial settlement, does not exist here. We have also had cases in the past again and again, where a budget has even been decided next year – for various reasons – but there has never been anyone to say that this is a case for the ministerial support, since now the Federal Chancellor, the Finance Minister of his office, has to be removed. This is simply not the instrument provided for. It was said that it was only the government's opinion that everyone else would have a different opinion, perhaps I would like to quote the constitutional comment of Korinek/Holoubek, the Austrian Constitutional Law, one, I think, Mr Stadler, probably undisputed essential comment from our federal constitution. And here – and not in relation to this specific case, like some of the opinions ordered, which are now conjured out in the discussion, but already years earlier – University Professor Hengstschäger notes: "If the Federal Government fails to submit its specified deadline, it shall have the opportunity to submit a draft. As a sanction of the sentence, it simply loses” – and no more sanctions – “the application monopoly.” If the Constitution wanted to remove what you are asking here, namely the Minister of Finance or the Federal Chancellor of his office, then the Constitution or the Constitutional Legislator would have had the possibility of including it in the Constitution. He didn't do that – for good reason. Therefore: Let us return to a constructive discussion of the proposals on the table to consolidate our budget! I think that is what the citizen and the citizen expect of us. Let's not waste energy in useless, purely formalistic nebula grenades! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11305	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler to speak. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11329	Mr President. I am not now referring to the misinterpretation of Professor Hengstschläger, but the previous speaker has claimed that for a ministerial loan according to Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b B-VG must have a guilty breach of law. – That’s not the case! Liability does not require the determination. The provision is literally: ‘The charge may be filed:...(b) against the members of the Federal Government and the bodies equivalent to them in respect of responsibility for infringement of law: by decision of the National Council...’. That means there is no need for guilt. In any event, the Constitutional Court may determine guilt, and in this case it would probably even do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11361	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11383	Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone who is at the heart of the Constitution must be pained if we are discussing the breach of constitution today and if the people feel that the Constitution is not so precise. This is not my qualification, it is the qualification of the President of the Constitutional Court of Holzinger. The legislative service of this House has also clearly stated in an opinion that the late draft does not comply with the Constitution. The list of prominent constitutional lawyers who question the constitutionality of the Federal Government's operations is long. There are only two designated constitutional lawyers who give the Federal Government the right, on the one hand the designated constitutional expert Cap and on the other hand the designated constitutional expert head. Otherwise, all constitutional lawyers of this Republic believe that the late budget template is not constitutional. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Sanctions are enough, there is only one problem: The political groups of this House, namely the government groups, make the Federal Government and its ministers the robbers. Sanction number one would have been that the parliamentary groups protest and do not tolerate such a procedure. It didn't happen. Procedure number two would have been mistrust requests. It happened. Keywords: Red and Black robbing ladders. The third and logical point is the ministerial anchorage, and this also shows – as Mr Stadler has already said – that this constitutional standard is not unpunished because the ministerial support is exactly the response if constitutional provisions are not complied with. That is why it makes sense for us to discuss this issue on a ministerial basis today, because that is the logical consequence. And if the two constitutional experts, head and cap of their constitutional opinion are so sure, then you agree, then the Constitutional Court should clarify this question! Interestingly, the constitutional lawyer Öhlinger – not our oillinger, but Professor Öhlinger – has already commented on an article in 1996 on the late submission of a budget draft. It concludes that a government that does not implement the draft budget must withdraw in time. He says that everything else would be a terrifying loss of political culture, and even more so, the commitment of the Constitution would be called into question. In 1996, Öhlinger qualified the behaviour of the Federal Government in 2010. If there were no, it would then be said that the Federal Government did not: the National Council, so a state-theoretical task could be updated. In fact, in this article it calls for: The Federal President would then have to discharge the Federal Government of his own initiative and ensure either a viable government coalition or a new election. So much about the position of the two renowned constitutional lawyers head and cap. Let's hold it: Mr Cap says that it is a constitutional breach in the interests of Austria. Even that I would question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11440	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Donnerbauer in word. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11464	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler has claimed that there is no need for a guilty infringement of the law for an indictment and has the same kind of injunction. 142 para. 2 B-VG quoted. I'm actually correcting: It is necessary to have a guilty breach of law, refer to the manner. 142 para. 1 B-VG and quote: “The Constitutional Court recognises the charge of asserting the constitutional responsibility of the highest federal and state institutions for the infringements of law committed by their duties.” – Thank you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is another destiny!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11512	Mr Petzner has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11534	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the constitutional and judicial speakers as well as numerous constitutional experts in the media have sufficiently explained why it is very likely that the Austrian federal constitution will be broken by non-compliance with the deadlines for the submission of the budget. What cannot be overlooked in this context is another aspect, namely the aspect of why this conscious breach of the constitution was taken into account and how this breach of the constitution was argued, ladies and gentlemen. The main argument was that, due to the economic development, the economic and financial crisis, the ignorance of how the economy and the financial will develop, the budget has to be postponed or the Constitution broken. It has been argued that sufficient time has been needed to negotiate a budget between the individual political groups in the ministries, between the ministers and the national leaders, and then to present it in the long term, which sets the course in the future in order to tackle reform projects that are urgently needed. In this context, I should like to remind you of the following literal statement by the Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, who was on 14 May. October 2009 in his “Austria speech” announced that there should be a conclave by the end of 2010 and that it should be negotiated for so long in terms of administrative reform until “white smoke rises”. ==References== On 1 February 2010, the ÖVP Federal Party's Board of Directors gave its own decision. In connection with this decision, Josef Pröll has stated literally that in the key year 2010 all political forces in Austria should show state-political responsibility. This is why we now have to bring the administrative reform to a speedy end. Quote: It will be negotiated until white smoke rises until a concrete administrative reform project is drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that until today this small fire has not been lit that no conclave has yet taken place that until today the decisive change for this Republic has not been made, that to date the administrative reform project has not even been addressed, that the project of a comprehensive state reform has not even been undertaken. This aspect, I believe, is central to my belief that it is not only a breach of the Austrian federal constitution, ladies and gentlemen, but also, above all, a break against the Austrians, a breach of given electoral promises and a crime of the future of our children and young people, because they are the sufferers who will feel the consequences of this missing policy, this unprecedented resistance to reform, because in many areas, in hospitals, in the field of education, in the field of school, in the field of administration, in the truest sense of the word, we simply cannot finance these areas. The Federal Government must be heard and reminded that it has promised that it has given its word that it will address this administrative reform, this state reform, this educational reform, this school reform. It is always argued that there is a need for this great coalition between SPÖ and ÖVP, because only the two strongest groups together can make these decisive choices. That's what you've been telling us for over 20 years. To this day, you haven't implemented it! On the contrary: There is disputed, sunk, and held that the beams bend. A Lower Austrian Council of State then judges the Minister of Health that it is a ruckser, which he proposes to reform the hospital. In the area of modern school is disputed that the beams bend. Ms. Schmied is still blocked by the concrete fraction in the ÖVP in her attempt to achieve the best education for our children. It is blocked in terms of state reform between state leaders and the Federal Government. The Minister of Finance is no longer in control of his own national leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, this aspect must not be forgotten. In addition to the constitutional aspect, this is also the crucial aspect of why the ministerial contribution is absolutely justified against both the Federal Chancellor and, above all, against the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11595	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its 991 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its 992 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[13:26:33]] 8. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (937 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (2. Social security amendment law 2010 – 2. SVÄG 2010) (959 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 186/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the reimbursement of medical and hospital expenses for holiday guests (960 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motions for resolutions 771/A(E) by Mr Dr. Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues with regard to the request for a comprehensive health reform and the aggregation of the 22 social security funds (961 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11677	We shall now proceed to points 8 to 10 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11705	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Among these materials, as the President has already announced, is a federal law which amends the General Social Security Act. We will vote in favour of this legislative matter because it contains a lot of points that we really welcome. This is, among other things, the creation of part-time insurance in accident insurance for the disabled who are in employment therapy. This is also an essential step in the direction of more socially equalizing the disabled. There will be an approximation of the beginning and end of compulsory insurance for the new self-employed. This too is a step in the right direction. The extension of the permitted non-insurance functions of the e-card, The new regulation of the payment of costs by health insurance providers to persons from outside the explosive in the relevant health insurance area, a simplification in the area of accident insurance for students when completing an individual professional orientation, a redesign of the Presidency in the Joint Arbitration Commission, all these are points that we welcome. We have little joy with the point that provides for the collection of health insurance contributions from pensioners of foreign pensions and pensions. We don't think it makes sense to tax people in addition to multiplicity insurance. The Committee said that this was mainly about border workers in Vorarlberg, who worked in Switzerland. I would have been interested in this regard, how many people that really are, and how high the additional revenue for the health insurance companies will be. I'm not particularly right about that. But we have, because all the other points were really good, despite this point in the law, and we will, of course, do so today. Furthermore, the proposal by Mr Spadiut on the aggregation of the 22 health insurance companies is now being voted on. We will also give our consent to this request. It makes sense to finally create a combination, a unification also throughout Austria. It is constantly discussed about two-class medicine. It was only yesterday that there was a long contribution to this in the ORF. This is an unfair discussion, considering that we have nine different territorial healthcare phones. So we have a nine-class medicine in this area alone, because each local health insurance fund pays for other things. There is a disparity which should at last be eliminated, and we will therefore also agree to this request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, my request concerning reimbursement of medical and hospital expenses for foreigners, for holidayers who have been accidents, is on the agenda. Hiezu has told us in the Committee that these costs in the EU area must be paid within 18 months. That's very nice, but we know it doesn't work. That is why this request is very up-to-date, and I think that if it does not work automatically and if it does not work, it should also be stressed from the Austrian side that these costs are actually borne by those EU neighbouring countries that are sparse. This is now up-to-date with regard to the upcoming ski season.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11756	The next speaker was Mrs Oberhauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11777	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Social security amendment law was passed by my predecessor Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has already been mentioned. On the point she criticized, the involvement of foreign pensioners, she asked what the surplus income was. At €20 million, the Federal Ministry expects additional revenue for the health insurance companies in the field of foreign pension insurance. They have already mentioned it, there are many from the western states, people who work in Switzerland and live in Vorarlberg. In Switzerland the salary level is higher, i.e. they also have a higher pension, but can already with a low domestic pension access to the entire benefits of Austrian health insurance. There is already the question of the extent to which there is justice. That is why we agree not only on the points you mentioned, but also on the subject of the involvement of pensioners abroad. With regard to the recovery of outstanding funds for benefits to people who have been injured in Austria or who have accepted medical treatment in Austria, if the competent countries do not pay: We know that's a problem. We also know, however, that it is now thanks to the amendment of the regulation that we have opportunities to demand it. It must be paid within 18 months of the notification that an amount is outstanding. If a country does not, then there is now also the possibility of withdrawing interest rates. That is, we have already achieved an improvement. But I fully agree with you that we must look at how this goes on. However, we also need to look at ourselves – and we are in the process of doing so – how high our external positions for services that Austrians have used in neighbouring countries and abroad in Europe are. Secondly, on the issue of the integration of the local health telephone, particularly in connection with a health reform: My opinion, the opinion of my group, but also the opinion of experts, is that the pooling of health insurance funds does not mean health reform. As a result, I have clearly preferred efforts to harmonise the law of hospitals and to achieve a federal control system. Since I know that I and my group do not believe in these questions, I would like to quote Bert Rürup, who looked at the effects of the merger of health insurance funds for Germany. The study he has carried out showed that with the statistics data it is not possible to prove that large cash registers work more cost-effectively than small ones. The present data even suggest the reverse conclusion, namely that cash registers with an increasing size work less cost-effectively. This was a process that could already be tracked in Germany. Rürup also says that the combination of health insurance funds is usually a politically motivated requirement – even in Germany it was obviously so – and not so much an economically motivated requirement. Since the FPÖ will indeed agree to this request, I would also like to point out that if we consider that the health insurance companies should be grouped together, we should then consider, as the first step, that the medical chambers, which are the main negotiating partners, should be put together, nine national medical chambers should be dissolved and instead established a federal medical chamber. Enjoy this project! The analysis of the process also showed that a centrally negotiating health insurance fund would not negate the fees, which are very different throughout the country, down, but would significantly raise up and thus we would not get a cost savings, but a cost increase.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11835	The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11858	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was very nice what Mr Oberhauser from Germany reported. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: Now he has even noticed my name!]] – That was only a promise at the time. However, I do not take the view that the aggregation of the 22 health insurance companies would very well bring cost savings. We also know very well that this would only work hand in hand with further reforms, such as uniform collective bargaining rules, fees regulations and uniform performance catalogues. It is not to be seen why most of the contributions have to go to the administration and bureaucracy. In the last discussion, colleague Oberhauser spoke of 3 to 4 percent savings, if you calculate this together, the €40 to €50 million. - Everybody together! [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: The administrative costs of the local health phone account for 3%!]] If I have 22 with 1.5 million €, that's 40 million €. With this €40 million, we could already finance psychotherapy in Austria throughout the world. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What would make a lot more sense would be financing from a single source. Briefly, one example explains: It is a new drug for osteoporosis prophylaxis on the market. In several countries it is permitted, the Austrian main association is still decorated. One has to know that this prophylaxis drug can achieve savings at multiple euromillions. The main association is therefore honored with approval, since these savings are not the extramural area, that is, the doctors, but only the hospitals, the intramural area, and for which the main association is not responsible. Mr Minister, you will not believe that positive things come from our side – I find your step in the right direction to address the hospital reform. Here you go exactly the right way against the resistance of the princes of your coalition partner. You're the right person. You're the right one. Unfortunately, what I still have to criticize: Please, distance yourself from collecting a health and nutrition security contribution from the farmers! The farmers are, as it were, actually whistling out of the last hole. I believe that on this point you are not well advised by your colleagues from the Socialist Group, who would like to take only revanche for the criticism of the ÖVP of the ÖBB. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Minister, please continue the path of hospital reform! That's the right way! Our support is safe for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11918	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11939	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's 2nd. Social security amendment law 2010 deals with several points. A legal basis for the collection of health insurance contributions for foreign pensions is established, the creation of a partial insurance in accident insurance for persons with disabilities in recognised employment therapy institutions, the approximation of the beginning and end of the compulsory insurance in accident insurance for new self-employed persons, the extension of non-insurance functions of the e-card, the re-regulation of costs, the costs incurred by the KV carriers in the case of benefits to persons outside the explosive of the competent KV carrier. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important point is certainly the collection of health insurance contributions from foreign pensions. What was the trigger of this measure? Why should we decide this in the National Council? – In fact, the Vorarlberger Landeskrankenkasse was the trigger, because there are a lot of frontier workers working there, who then retire for a foreign pension. Austria is talking about about about 120 people and a sum of around €20 million. In the spring of 2010, the main association decided that the 5.1 percent amount of KV contributions for such pensions should be abolished, and a legal amendment was requested at the end of the day. We agree with this regulation – and I would also like to say why we agree with it: Borderpensionists can of course also benefit from health care in the country in which they were employed. That means they can go to the hospital there, they can visit a doctor or a doctor there. And there are intergovernmental agreements – for example, between the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria – that the costs will then be charged by the main association. That is to say, Austria has a total effect on these services. That is why I believe it is justified for us to remove 5.1% of health insurance contributions in this area, because we pay for the benefits for these persons as a whole and pay these benefits as well. That is, I believe, comprehensible, and it is also justified, in my view, for us to withdraw this contribution. However, it will not be that way – it has been sent by the individual KV carriers to the persons concerned – that this is from 1. May 2010 – that is, retroactive – is to happen. That won't happen. It is planned to start this from July 2011. Why? – Because the data collection in this area is not complete. Pension insurance schemes will deal with the data collection – primarily the PVA – so that you can even say how many pensioners there are with what amount of pension from foreign pensions. Then one will go in the direction that this health insurance contribution will be removed from July 2011 – once again, justified from our point of view, because we also pay for the benefits that are provided abroad at the level of the health structure. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, one word to put together the cash registers, 22 make one. First argument against: These are grown structures. We have self-employed, we have self-employed. One, I think, we do not want to all of us to keep taking this structure away from the citizens. Secondly, there are very good approaches in this area to be followed. There is a Court of Auditors report comparing the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse with the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. In the administrative sector alone, it was found that in Upper Austria, an employee in the regional health insurance fund is responsible for about 600 insured persons and in Vienna it is about 410. I think there could be a place to save costs, even in the administration. These reports remain, have changed very, very little in this area. You should do this first before you cross our health insurance structure here with the lawn mower.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e11991	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12012	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We support the solidarity of all citizens' medically necessary health care. There we are, I believe, agreed. We don't want a two-class medicine. We know that our health system is one of the best in the world. However, we also know that funding for the future is unfortunately not guaranteed. Recently at an event someone has taken an interesting account of life expectancy. I wrote that down. We get older every day by six hours of life expectancy. That means our life expectancy increases by six hours a day. In the year it is 90 days, and in ten years two and a half years. To solve this demographic problem is the biggest challenge in the next few years. We will not be able to afford federalism in health care in the long term. Mr. Minister, your incentive to put the health insurance laws together is a right, a first step in the right direction. We've also made you know that we're going to carry this. But in this context, of course, we also need to talk about the combination of health insurance funds – even if, of course, there were problems here if this were to be carried out. We need to talk about the harmonisation of the service catalogue. We must address the issue of non-insurance benefits when it comes to financing the health system in order to take all these measures together in order to maintain the usual high standard without additional contributions and means of taxation. Saving in the wrong place must be stopped. Reductions in performance or self retention cannot be described as savings. The classic example of saving in the wrong place is the cost of medication. If these days innovative medicines, which facilitate the suffering of the affected patients, are no longer paid by the checkouts, then this is not a savings, but simply a reduction in performance. The path is very clear: centralize and merge in the social and health system. We also have to question sacred cows – that is really my concern now. Today, it is true that we finance our system by means of a charging procedure, which is one-sidedly linked to the work factor. This will no longer work in the future for a variety of reasons known here. Here, the basis of financing needs to be significantly expanded or even supplemented by other forms such as a supplementary capital coverage procedure. Further consideration must also be given to whether the principle of equivalence – or also the principle of the "head" – is not superior to the principle of solidarity – or the principle of solidarity – in financing. I see excellent approaches, especially in the current situation, to replace the current principle of benefits in the already very limited service catalogue with the cost-refund principle. The value of the cost-refund principle in medicine is that it is the insured person's door to medical progress. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Many other European countries are already taking this path successfully. Anyway: The worst solution would be to continue to play on the same way we have so far and the future of our children and our country, in order to wake up in medicine in the end without a solution and with an unsocial two-class system.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12064	Mr Grünewald spoke as the next speaker. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12085	Mr President. Federal Minister! If you look around like this, the Social Insurance Act really triggers passion storms. It is a dry matter, but still not unimportant. In general, the positive has been emphasized, so we will agree. I would like to say a few words about the pension scheme. It is known that pensions are subject to sickness insurance contributions in Austria. This is where the law makes a change. There are people who are getting an Austrian and a foreign pension, both are used to pay health insurance up to a fictitious highest-ASVG base. For income, if you already discuss this: It is not quite unreasonable because the cash registers are not as good as many believe or say. You need this money. If the social security and health insurance systems are so different in Europe, it may also be that a person is taking pensions abroad, but he has paid health insurance contributions via his or her tax benefit. But that would be unfair. I think you have to look at that. I would not tabulate that, although one is talking about income – income as the basis for contribution payments – but private pensions, for example, do not see as income, speculation gains and assets do not count as income if it is rents and other things. This is not to be understood in itself, even if it is taboo for many. One does not intend to drop well-offs into poverty, but a contribution to health insurance – as usual, mostly a little more than 3.5 percent to 5 percent of pensions – would not put people in the most bitter need. Now a short while to merge all the cash registers: We Greens know that the merger of cash will not financially improve the Austrian health system. That's what Oberhauser said. So just for the sake of money, this project is not to operate with Vehemenz, but there is another reason. It is really not to be seen that professional cash registers, which were authorised 100 years ago, still have this right today. Workers and employees are increasingly similar, even in the frequency of illness. The fact that officials are a thousand times healthier than others can't really be proved statistically. But I do not think that is possible in Austria. We have seen this, we cannot discuss federal and federalism either. To make one out of over 20 cash registers – we would have to live every 200 years to experience it. But a local health insurance fund, which also provides equal benefits for equal payments and contributions, I thought was fair and good in Austria. I'd have Likes state-of-the-art regulations – that is not to say, a central bank in Vienna for all of Austria, as it used to be in Moscow. Of course, nine national branches could remain with certain scope for action. In my opinion, this would be a feasible progress, because if one now sees how different psychotherapy is financed – that some checkouts have no contracts with logos, physiotherapists and others at all – how different the penetration is, so to speak, with certain special compartments in the country and with cash offices, then it would be a bit more united here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12139	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12161	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we are today on the 2nd. Social security amendment law with two from my point of view can discuss very central improvements and changes in the health system. We create equality between people who were cross-border, who are pensioners in Austria and who are pensioners from abroad. They get the same benefits, and we also want to ensure that they have to pay the same contributions as the insurance companies operating in Austria. This law was necessary to ensure equality in the whole of Austria, so that the health insurance companies have clear legal bases, and so that this objective is also implemented. A second topic – this should not be underestimated – is access to accident insurance services for people with disabilities working in occupational therapy, in employment therapy. They now receive accident insurance protection, and thus we improve their situation – but not only these employees, but we also address the liability issue of providers in this area. This is an example of the fact that greater legal certainty also leads to better social compensation and a better social situation. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to point out that in Austrian social security, we have a clear principle, namely the principle of benefits in kind. We also need to offer services to people in the region. These benefits can only be provided if there are social security schemes which are also active in the region which know the problems and which can act accordingly. That is why I say quite clearly: We need regional health telephones which can be informed of the situation in order to actually provide services. I always bring an example: If we spend money, then there are people who get money. But we see in the care allowance that there are many people who get care money, but no care. In this respect, it is important to strengthen the principle of social security, where the benefits in kind are in the foreground, and in this direction one should also work very decisively. Here we have made a contribution that the legal bases throughout Austria are the same, the rules on how to get these benefits, but to be developed in the federal state. In this respect, I would also like to seek the approval of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12203	Next speaker: Mr Keck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12224	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a social system that we can rightly be proud of and ensure that we treat diseases regardless of social status. And just as we take this into account, but all should also make a fair contribution to this system. This is particularly important when the cash registers are scarce, and if our goal is not the reduction of performance, but the particularly good use of the existing funds. One way to get even more money for the system is to define the legal basis for the collection of health insurance contributions from foreign pensions and pensions, as it is the second. Social security amendment law. Thousands have so far benefited from an unclear scheme, the health system has been deprived of urgently needed money, and injustices have been created between those concerned. If someone in the country, for example, has received a small partial pension, only this small partial pension has been calculated. Even if the addition of the foreign pension gave rise to the maximum pension, the contribution to the local health insurance scheme has not been increased. I wonder how this would be responsible to a minimum pensioner in Austria. In any case, this is unfair and wrong. In particular, it is wrong to know that many had the opportunity to claim back health insurance contributions they had paid abroad, or to be treated exclusively domestically. In addition to specifying foreign pensions, a change in the area of accident insurance will contribute to strengthening the cash registers. Here, too, a red tape has opened a door and a door to abuse: While the reporting and thus the calculation of contributions to health and pension insurance for new self-employed people has already been carried out automatically, AUVA continues to require a notification. ==References== We do this and prevent further abuse. It is important to extend the function of the e-card, to simplify accident insurance for pupils in vocational orientation, or to create part-time insurance in accident insurance for people with disabilities. There are 20 000 people throughout Germany who, because of disability, complete employment treatments in protected facilities. Since they do not receive a salary, but only a pocket money, they have not even been insured for accident. We will now change this, and with an amount of only 12 cents per day, we will make it possible to protect insurance, which will also include the work path. ==References== So the Social Insurance Amendment Act is a round, extremely social package for which I would like to thank our Minister for health Stöger.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12277	The next speaker was Mr Rasinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12300	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to respond to a request. Unfortunately, Mr Spadiut is not here, but I am still talking to the not present spadiut about reducing the number of health insurance funds. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: I'm here! I'll tell him!]] - Good. He says 22 cash registers are too much, one would be rich. Now let me tell you something: This is a mistake in itself, because de facto we don't have 22 health insurances, but actually only 13 health insurances. The others are such dwarfs to send them into the race, has already been brought very far. But if you look at this compared to Germany and Switzerland, we have much less health insurance. Mrs Oberhauser has already expressed the opinion of Mr Rürup, which is not irrelevant. But I'm talking about something else. I am referring to the question of what a health insurance fund is for, and I am already of the opinion that it should act close to the citizen. I already have a problem with this – Mr Green Forest has done it –: What's supply? If we define the supply only from the Vienna perspective, the central point of view, Karlsböck said: I make a commitment to centralization, then everything gets better, then the billions flow. Whenever I heard your party president talk about where he wanted to get money, he said the billions in health care. - Only no one finds them. They are about like the hole Ness – somewhere – or in the Toplitzsee is a box, and if you go down you will suddenly find the billions. Let's stay honest, let's stay serious! The billions are not to be reached if one wants a second measure, namely to switch the supply to a high level. You said that honestly, too. Let's stay honest: Either we raise billions, that is, rationalize – and even this is very difficult. When you lock up 40 percent of the Austrian hospitals, you take up the famous billions, but not immediately – that's why: Let's leave that! Among health experts, this is a hole-neess discussion, which we leave to Mr Felder, Mr Moser and as they all call. In reality, it's about power and nothing else. When financing from a single source, the question is: Who's the hand? Who wants power? – I know four hands that want to get involved, the countries, the main association. Where is the coordination function of the famous main association? If I constantly hear that the services are not coordinated, that there are other services in Salzburg than in Vienna, then this is bothering me, of course, the level; for how does a person in Vorarlberg get a different performance than in Vienna? But I don't need a central bank. Don't be mad at me! A false diagnosis, false therapy always results in a sick patient. Slowly, I recognize a new disease in Austria, which is called “reformitis”: Everyone has a red head, everyone has sleepless nights, and finally an apathic health minister is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12357	The next speaker was Mr Haberzettl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12380	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! I have to disagree with my previous speaker on one point: The Councilless Minister of Health is not left, but otherwise the statements were correct. Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's 2nd. Social security amendment law includes, on the one hand, important new schemes that correspond to further development in these areas, but also a legal clarification of the provisions already in force. The first is actually the legal basis for the collection of health insurance contributions from foreign pensions or pensions. There will be a level playing field between foreign and domestic pensions and pensions. In order to collect health insurance contributions, the full tax has so far been charged for domestic incomes, whereas in the case of minor domestic and higher foreign pensions or pensions, only the domestic part has been calculated. This injustice should now be eliminated. I also believe that the creation of part-time insurance in accident insurance for people with disabilities in recognised institutions is about equality of social law and the elimination of injustice. For people whose performance due to their disability is reduced to the extent that employment is not possible, there is the possibility of employment therapy in special facilities. But they don't get a fee for it, but they're just a pocket money. A partial accident insurance insurance scheme is now to be established for these groups. An extension of the permitted non-insurance functions of the e-card is also foreseen. However, it is not an actual extension – that is, an additional way to transmit data – but a clear better technical backup of personal data. The complex title of the new scheme for the payment of health insurance in the case of benefits to persons outside the explosive of the competent health insurance institution does not mean anything other than that if the insured person needs benefits outside of the explosive of his health insurance, in particular cash benefits, this should be re-regulated and regulated in a reasonable manner. The main association is actually authorized to draw up clear guidelines. I think that these are all very important points in this Social Insurance Amendment Act, and I am therefore also seeking your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12427	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12448	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have a series of interesting materials to advise. It is not least about the government template 937 of the supplements, it is about the 2nd. Social law amendment law, including the inclusion of pensions and pensions for citizens who live in Austria, but who are pensioners, pensioners and pensioners also in other countries. I believe that this is in principle good, and of course we will also support it. For me, there are some questions, and I think it's high time we did this and we did it. If today in a speech speech was said that it was not quite okay, because people needed the money, then I ask: Who doesn't need money, please? I think those who have to pay the system or our health insurance benefits also have the right to receive the contributions; no question. Once a total of €80 million was calculated, in the meantime we are at €20 million. The amount is not the decisive, crucial is justice, namely that the people who take advantage of our services and receive adequate benefits are also included in the obligation to contribute. The difficulty that could exist – but this one we have to face – is that the notification of pensioners is required. This is a reasonable but very difficult approach. Who likes to report? We have a huge task, which we have to face and which we will also deal with together. We also need to secure our entire performance for the future. Something else I see the partial insurance in accident insurance. First of all, I would like to mention the positive aspects: Yes, even disabled persons in such bodies, which are run by the operator organisations, have a right to full accident insurance protection; no question. If we say that's 0.12 cents a day, that's also a size. For me, the far more crucial question is what the Minister has already said at the committee meeting, namely that this is a discharge of liability – that is all right. Now on a question which I think is very important: I assume that all the operators have already been talked to. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be among those – I do not want to recommend it or to give it to you – who now, in the light of the Advent markets and the entire social and charitable events, come into the houses for good reason, because we respect the work because we want to leave our adequate donation there because we support it all – and then the operators come to us and say: You have decided in Parliament. So I don't want to be there. That is why I assume that this has been sufficiently communicated with the operator organisations and that you really want to take one step and not just take one measure. It is about comprehensive security, about the security of the citizens and, in particular, about the comprehensive security of the disabled – this is not about € 850 000 in AUVA, which is the secondary issue, about the disabled and their security. On application 771/A(E): Yes, this is an issue that two parties in this House have always been the standard theme. That's what it says: Put everything together, it'll get better. I think you should talk about everything. It would make no sense to say that this is a request we are not dealing with. You have to talk about everything, there are only a few questions. First: In what period of time do we want to realize that? With whom Are we going to negotiate? What structures do we want? Do we want division carriers? Then we have to say it. That means: Nothing happened to a UV carrier, that's almost there. A PV carrier – one will also talk about that, that is almost already there. The whole problem of health insurance is extremely difficult: We have the professional associations, we have the country-based structures. Now we have to ask ourselves: What do we want? Do we all want to go together? Then we need to know that we have different contribution cultures, that we have different self-holds, cost shares, or none of them. This is a very, very difficult, highly emotional question. I think you have to talk about that, but not under time pressure and not with a minimum specification. I don't think you can expect high savings either, although I personally believe that you can save a lot in the IT sector. But you don't have to put it together, you can also better coordinate it in the current structure. And I could also imagine that there is a lot to be done in the collective sector. In addition, we do not necessarily need the new structure, where we could certainly come to a solution in the current structure through a common appearance. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to refer to another matter: Of course, you have the duty and responsibility to maintain the financing. There will have to be a few more discussions, because simply correcting the fact that we will no longer pay this tomorrow and thus putting carriers in trouble that will no longer be able to fulfil their tasks, that will not happen. That's what we really need to put together – you know what it's all about. But where I agree with you, wherever I think it is high time to talk about it, are the hospital structures. You've given something in the last few days: You might imagine that you are creating a federal law and making a uniform legal orientation. Instead of ten laws with all their branches, one would have a basic, a principle law with all its obligations and requirements. This is basically positive and to support. The question is just how everywhere: Do we have the possibility of adequate communication? Are the others also convinced that a new path is important and right? If you look at the finances today, you will experience more or less your miracles. They have all the branches of the cash flow that you can even imagine. If you could improve this, it would really be a great throw. I think it was courageous to make this proposal – but the proposal, Mr Federal Minister, is far from the result. We are measured by results and not announcements. I can tell you for my person, I also think for my group: We will certainly be happy to accompany you in this project and we would like us to be able to record the corresponding success in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12546	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12570	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The changes contained in the Social Law Amendment Act have already been comprehensively and comprehensively presented by my previous speakers. I will concentrate on the aggregation of social security funds and the application in this regard. The Austrian social security system is a very complex one. Yes, there are differences between the benefits, but also in the field of self retention. However, it must also be noted that there have always been concentrations and combinations in the history of social security institutions. In 1972, the farmers' social insurance institution and that of the industrial economy were created as the institutions of the self-employed professional sectors. In 2003 the merger of pension insurance institutions of workers and employees occurred. In 2005, the mining and railway insurance institutions merged and the main association has undergone some organisational reforms – the last one in 2005 – which led to the streamlining of the organization and also to the strengthening of self-management. It should also be noted that the main association of the Austrian social security funds already carries out joint tasks for the insurance companies. The health insurance companies are of course independent, but data processing is already carried out in a joint data center. This has already been addressed by my previous speaker: That would be expandable. Head quotas are also collected, which are expected to be expected with excitement every year. These are statistical surveys which provide the basis for the direct comparison of all the essential business areas of social security institutions. Cooperation between back-office insurance institutions is more common than that which corresponds to the appearance of social security institutions. Even in the front office area, i.e. in direct customer contact, there is the all-parts system, which is, so to speak, a one-stop shop that is supported by customer friendliness. It does not matter in the field of social security where you submit an application for a notification, it will certainly be submitted to the right place at the right time in time. This is a rule that no other authority has, even in court, this cannot be handled in this way. A politically forced combination of social security funds would not solve the financial problems or reform Austria's health system, but would at most contribute to a deterioration in the supply. It is also not a suitable argument for increasing quality in social security. Nevertheless: There's no way through a health reform. The reforms that deserve this name must deal with the question of hospitals, with care and care, with the interfaces in the extra and intramural area and, of course, also question the competence of the many players in the health system. Mr. Health Minister, we wish you every success in implementing such reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12619	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12642	Mr President. Minister! High house! Another sentence on foreign pensions: There is a need for equality of international and domestic pensions in the field of health insurance, while the aspect of justice and fairness is important. All people in Austria should be able to rely on fair treatment, but see a top-ranking study by GfK-Austria on behalf of the Senior Confederation shows that 79 percent, more than two thirds of those over 60 years of age, are concerned that future savings in the health system will go at the expense of the elderly. That's an alarm sign! Many people are unsure because reforms have been discussed for years. That means that we urgently need security instead of uncertainty. Maybe you saw the ORF "Report" broadcast yesterday. There was talk of signs of a two-class medicine. Insurances advertised, so it was said that private patients come to operating dates faster. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister. What is the current situation? For hip joint surgery, the waiting time is on average one year. If you have a private supplementary insurance, you'll get the operating date in a few weeks. What does that mean? Less pain, more mobility for those who can afford it. Monetics instead of ethics, we strongly reject such developments. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, a comprehensive health reform, which is just, which benefits everyone and which, above all, quickly gets on its feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12680	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall vote on the draft. Social Insurance Amendment Act 2010 including title and receipt in 937 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Health, its report 960 d.a. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we are voting on the Committee on Health's request, its report 961 d.b. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[14:19:26]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1308/2013A by Dr Sabine Oberhauser, MAS, Dr Erwin Rasinger, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Health Telecommunications Act (962 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12762	We shall now proceed to item 11 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12789	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! An old problem will be solved with the novice of the Health Telecommunications Act. This amendment, which we will adopt unanimously today, will create a federal legislation for the transmission of health data by fax. Such a scheme is necessary for reasons of practicality, but it does not constitute a general rule. It is a regulation which only affects in exceptional cases, and it is to be finally eliminated in the case of a major novel to the Health Telematics Act. We must note that there are health service providers who do not yet have the necessary technical possibilities. That is why, especially for these cases, but also if the hospital is to have a quick time when the data are to arrive immediately, such a regulation should be established. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also, in principle, comment on questions of an electronic health act. We will soon have a major innovation on the Health Telematics Act, in which precisely these questions need to be resolved, namely the issues of data security, data protection, and the fundamental question – which naturally needs to be solved – will be: What benefits do the health care and the patient have from an electronic health act? – One thing should be clear to all of us if we fail to convince the patient of such a system, then such an electronic health act will be difficult to enforce. Regardless of whether we come to an opt-in solution or an opt-out solution, the patient's participation will be crucial. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: What is the difference?]] Both solutions are basically possible under data protection law. But I would like to expressly stress that health data are particularly sensitive data. One could also distinguish between normal health data and particularly sensitive health data. I believe, Federal Minister, that we should go this way, which the Article 29 Data Protection Group has already demonstrated, that an opt-in solution is chosen for the particularly sensitive data. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: It's the opt-in solution!]] We also need a ban on use. We must ensure that these health data are not misused by third parties. To conclude this matter, I advocate that we create an explicit penalty. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will have to hold this debate not only in the Data Protection Council, but here in the House, in the Health Committee and in the plenary. We must hold the debate for patients and for Austrian health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12842	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12864	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker actually put the matter to the fore. [[Abg. Riepl: Always!]] - Sometimes I'm not so convinced. I would like to say in addition, also on the part of the ÖVP, after this amendment of the Health Telecommunications Act has been adopted unanimously in the Committee and is now being cancelled here, that this is a point that the Data Protection Council has given us, that there must be a security for certain medical documents. One point that has already been raised in the Committee for thought has also been raised: This is the problem that there are also personal e-mail data protection transfers. In hospitals, then, if there is a need for a man to be a woman, just when part-time work is done, or if he or she is not present, they cannot be called. There are still a lot of women working part-time in health care. One important point is that you leave this form for some time until it is finally so far that there is also a PC for each employee and every employee and the accesses are there. Technical and economic aspects need to be taken into account, as it is now also regulated by the new law. Overall: It may be a small novel, but a novel that we also had to deal with, and I think that we will decide in plenary just as unanimously as we did in committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12898	Mr Dr Karlsböck spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12920	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Maier, you are already right that you have done this with the ELGA. The question which I am now putting on the verge of without going into it: Why is it so long with the ELGA? Why does ELGA cost so much? Why are the costs exploding here? What is, according to my information, with the lack of connection to the EU? We will have to deal with these questions in the future. We will also address these questions in a massive way here and will certainly discuss these maladministrations. The Health Telematics Act, which we are now discussing here, as a small advance to the large coming law, thus lays down additional data security the e-commerce of health data. Minimum standards are intended to increase data security. With the last amendment to the Health Telecommunications Act, the entry into force of the administrative penalty provisions was extended until the end of 2009. The reason for this was the experience that the established data security requirements could not be implemented immediately or completely by all health service providers, in particular the use of the fax devices addressed. Therefore, since a complete change in the basic population concerned is not necessary, this solution now offers a flexible and effective way of exerting appropriate pressure on tracers without endangering the transmission of health data with the said disadvantages for the majority of patients. However, if transmission is actively or passively possible for certain health service providers only by means of a conventional technology – as in the case of the fax – the communication partner must also be allowed to use this technology without penalty, otherwise communication would not be possible. Rescue services are currently often organised with radio technologies that do not allow encryption of the health data transmitted. Since an immediate release of this technology would be associated with immense costs and also does not appear appropriate in view of the low potential for abuse, a transitional period was chosen here, which is based on the reinvestment cycles mentioned. In view of the fact that the Health Telematics Act only suspended the administrative penalty provision by the end of 2009 and the Health Telematics Regulation by the end of 2002, a high legal uncertainty arose with regard to the standard recipients to be fixed with this novelle. We liberals will agree with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12971	Mr Grünewald spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e12992	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! The storage and transmission of health data is of fundamental importance and we should no longer move here in the century of the post-coach and go with time. I am convinced that the benefits for patients, who benefit from outpatient, stationary facilities and practices are massive. But the basis is safe – as Maier says perfectly correctly – not only the absolute guarantee of data backup, but also trust-building measures, so that people understand what they have in terms of profit. The fact that transitional arrangements have been created here has to do with the fact that the installation of these technical equipment cannot happen from today to tomorrow. That's to be seen. Nevertheless, I would already dare to claim that new practices, ambulances and other health care facilities are set up and that equipment on this technical status and data protection should be the basic condition of authorisation of a practice, because then much is left out. If today it is still claimed by individuals that they could not operate a fax, they would not have a computer, that might be doing Dervise in their practice, but that should not happen in Austria. So we Greens agree to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13029	The next speaker was Mr Spadiut. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13050	Mr President. Minister! The Health Telecommunications Act was adopted on a recommendation from the EU in 2005, but cannot be implemented in practice. The restrictions on the use of fax devices and the high requirements for encrypted e-mail transport with high computer costs are not to be met. In practice, this means in the search for a bone marrow donor that the e-mail traffic between Austria and China, South America and South Africa from the bone marrow centre should only have been in encrypted form. Of course, this also requires that all countries use the same encryption programs, and that is financially impossible in a non-profit facility of the health care system. ÖVP and SPÖ have correctly recognized that a delay in this law is too little and that is why we will agree with the BZÖ of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13080	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Dr. Strutz spoke. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13102	Mr President. Minister of Health! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, it's a little novel that can be decided here. In reality, she documents that Mrs. Aubauer's pious desire to implement a rapid health reform in Austria will remain a wish for the Christian child – you can say before Christmas. To the speech of Mr Maier, who said that with this novel, we are solving an old problem, so to speak, we will have to decide on a major novel to the Health Telematics Act next year and the Electronic Health Act will come – this too will remain a pious wish, because the facts are unfortunately completely different. Only the reason for this new law must be broken on the tongue: "The reason for this was the experience that the specified data security requirements were not immediately and immediately respectively. could not be fully implemented by all health service providers. In particular, as regards the continued widespread use of fax equipment, it became clear that it was often the only communication infrastructure in use for the transmission of health data and that immediate termination could not be carried out without affecting the health care of patients.” High House, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what's going on? – The only communication facility of healthcare service providers are fax devices! Welcome to 2010! Welcome to the technology world of the Austrian health system! [[Abg. May. Johann Maier: These are doctors, dear colleague! Think!]] - Please, don't tell me! We will talk about this issue here in the House many times. They're not doctors, they're health service providers. I can tell you about cases of hospitals in Austria that still send X-ray images back and forth by taxi. That's fact! Mr Donabauer rightly acknowledged: Savings in the IT sector are not only a command of the hour in the health field, but must be implemented. [[Abg. Wenninger: But these are investments!]] - Yes, investment. We need to get under control of this explosion, Mr President. If I don't want to save on the staff, the doctors, the nurses, I have to do this in the administration sector and then I can do it with the support of the computer. I'll tell you why. – The problem in Austria is actually the double and multiple examinations. This is also the abuse – and this must be said honestly – of the e-card, because this has also greatly increased the medical hopping and multiple examinations. The Minister of Health knows that. With the introduction of this electronic health act, Mr Maier, this problem would be dealt with relatively quickly. But what has happened this year and in recent years? – Look You are looking at what the output of ELGA GmbH, founded by the government, is indeed! Studies of over half a million € were commissioned there – IBM, for example, and the like. If you look at the schedule there, all of this would have to be real about what we're discussing. In fact, this ELGA GmbH has been engaged in over the last three years, but apart from working groups on data protection, there has not been much out of it to other areas. You have to say that yourself. Not even the new law, which was demanded and announced for this year, has become reality. More than €30 million will flow into this company, financed by the Republic, through the social security funds, through an Article-15a agreement with the Federal Government. The only thing that comes out now is not that we have the electronic health records, but that pharmacies now, as it were, now have the e-medication that the electronic prescription should be implemented. I'm just telling you, in our neighbouring countries, in Germany, all this is real. There are these technical facilities. A simple software that leads the existing systems to each other and also implements them. Instead of looking at or importing from neighbouring countries, we try to develop a product ourselves and do not go further because we are dealing with data protection problems and beating around. I tell you, the Court of Auditors will also have to deal with ELGA GmbH, because we are setting up a company that actually has zero output, also in the implementation. I'm telling you, if we could only avoid a double examination, we could reduce 10 percent of health expenditure per patient. Therefore, Minister of Health, explain to us what this company has actually done with two directors – in parity, with a red and a black – in recent years. What is other than working groups, what is happening except legislative proposals and demands, such as the government must change the Health Telecommunications Act? Today we do not decide on this novel. We only resolve the criminal provisions and the time limits so that those who still fax the health data to and from the fax machine, so to speak, are not asked to cash. In reality, this little novelle is a declaration of bankruptcy for the Minister of Health, a declaration of bankruptcy for ELGA GmbH and shows that this health reform, which we are promised every year – also the Health Telecommunications Act has been promised for the year 2010 – does not come forward at all. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In reality, health reform is a sick patient who needs to be treated urgently. Here we are all required. With the savings of this €30 million in a senseless society, which does nothing to go on, we could already reduce the cost of health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13178	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Health Telecommunications Act, together with the title and receipt in 962 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:39:38]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment 863/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Members of the Committee on Education and Training (963 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13233	We're coming to 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Neubauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13260	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have seen in many areas in recent months, including in the preparation of the budget, this federal government is acting against the interests of Austria, against the interests of the people living here. And so also in the nursing sector, where it has been a matter of putting on the legs a suitable element in the form that we offer people an opportunity to install a teaching profession. It has gone so far that, because we apparently do not continue here on the side of the federal government, now the countries need to become active in order to perhaps bring some movement into this debate. For example, the head of state from Vorarlberg recently spoke, who meant that he considered that care and care as a teaching profession He now wants to set up such a system for Vorarlberg. Ladies and gentlemen! Apprenticeship Egon Blum has made a very strong contribution to the introduction of such a teaching profession on care, and he has also meant that after three years of teaching, a caregiver would have to be integrated into society at the end of this training, and the fourth year should then be reserved for disability work and also for old-age care. I quote Egon Blum, who said for four years there's been a suitable paper in the drawer. – As a learned Austrian, you ask yourself: Then why is that not done? – Mr Blum has the answer: He says that there are just too many ministries here that dispute each other's competence, and that's why, like many other points in Austria, nothing goes further on this important question for the population. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a declaration of bankruptcy, as you deal with this important question concerning the people to be cared for and to be cared for. You really have to be ashamed of that, because that's not how you deal with such things. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the argument that you and also colleague Oberhauser are always happy to bring to the tapet that it is not possible that 15-year-olds cannot be faced with the alternative of dealing with this psychological issue, because it is simply too early for 15-year-olds to opt for such an important training for old-age care and care, I can tell you that in recent years there has already been quite different, namely the realization that this teaching profession is, of course, going in the right direction and that we have to orient ourselves on the example of Switzerland if we want to achieve the same level of education. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it must finally be over with these excuses and again and again only excuses, but you are required to finally act, finally to provide people with a suitable system so that we can finally become self-evident from abroad on this issue too! People deserved it! And I would like to mention to you the expert Praschl, who said on the question of whether at the age of 15 you are able to take up such a teaching profession: “It is demonstrated that it is possible to offer a lesson that starts at the age of 15 even in the field of health care – taking into account nursing activities.” – Care is not taken! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you play the prevented person – for whatever reason. Immerse yourself in this decision that finally the apprenticeship care will be installed! Give the old people in need of care a chance, and above all give the young people a new perspective for this education!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13318	The next speaker was Mr Hell. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13339	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unlike my previous speakers, I believe that we in Austria have a very good health, social and care system. Health and care professions include a wide range of professional and professional responsibilities. Together with individual care, advice, support for people, healthy, sick, but also disabled people, there is a basis here that is geared towards an excellent health system. This may also be reflected in the fact that people in Austria – perhaps precisely because of this – are getting older and older. That's good. It is important, however, that old age can take place in dignity and, above all, that you can also depend on foreign assistance and care. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we have a very good training system for all nursing and social professions. We have an excellent system for further education and training. Nevertheless, we are currently lacking in the care sector of employees. The question is: Why? – Studies and studies demonstrate that there is above all the working environment that exists for the outcome. Studies have shown that increased workload, overload, burn-out in nurses are the triggering factors. If we do not want a shortage of health and care professionals in the future, we must adopt this problem more strongly, and we must try to find solutions here together with workers' representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Request 863/A(E) introduces the requirement for a teaching profession for care and care. Our group will vote in favour of the negative committee report today, and I should like to add a few points in this context: Austria has a proven system when it comes to the admission of teaching professions. The following procedure is provided for here: There must be an Austrian need. Training establishments must be available. There must be a detailed training plan. The Advisory Board shall examine and establish the necessary conditions. [[Abg. Neubauer: All points met! That's where you can agree!]] And then there is a positive message from the Federal Minister. Eight new railway teaching occupations were re-ordered in the past year, among other things. Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, the request and the demand for reality go beyond reality. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner shakes the head.]] This also proves various investigations. And I am not of the opinion of my previous speaker, because the Swiss investigation has just revealed this. Old work requires a minimum degree of physical maturity, mental stability and, above all, a mature personality. 15-year-olds cannot resist this pressure, even if they are accompanied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13392	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13413	Mr President. Federal Minister! Your speech now, my colleague, shows me again that we persist and persist and just don't change anything, because everything fits so well anyway. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] They say that caregivers are missing – I have written it – and that we have to accept the problem. That's a beautiful sentence. But how do you deal with the problem? . A way of accepting this problem is to think about new ways, discuss and consider ourselves, as a complement to our good training, especially in the field of education and training. Social care professions, in the field of qualified health professions in the university field, provide for a new, additional form in the field of higher education, which can be used as a complement to the care work and which gives young people, in particular, a chance. Today we train a lot of older people – which is right and good if they are suitable – we give women the opportunity to enter this area, but the boys after the compulsory school, which we do not give them a chance. They say: Stop! Wait for at least 17 years, and then you can do something here! And that's exactly what I don't understand. There is a standstill throughout the care area anyway. There is a standstill as far as funding is concerned – we are still waiting for a financing concept – there is a standstill in the field of competence in the care procedures, there is a standstill in the area of care money – there is now a “pervading” to shorten it; that is the easiest way to take away people again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] - That's right. We all know that in the field of caregivers and the caregivers, the need is rising rapidly. Mr Hell has said that many get out of the profession and leave a gap here. So why leave. Are you not finally going to have a discussion in this area? Look at the chances there are! If you say, you need a curriculum and you need something from the Chamber of Commerce and so on: There's already that! Let's talk about that! Mr Neubauer said it right: Since 2006 there has been a document. And you should really talk about this once and for all! And all these things, that young people with 15 are not yet mature, I really don't want to use this as the main argument, because this profession will then teach someone or choose if he feels a certain fitness, a certain motivation, and of course it must also be clearly determined in the admission procedure who can be admitted and who can't be. And in the training, in the curriculum, the conditions can be increased in the first two modules in the theory field and only in the third module specialization can take place also in practical work. I say: If you want, there's a lot going on. In other countries we are really ahead of this. I really ask you to put this ignorance on the side of the ÖVP and SPÖ at last. Vorarlberg and Tirol have already sent out signals for a pilot project. And when I remember that in Upper Austria every household was distributed a copy of the ÖVP newspaper “New Volksblatt” with information about the “Teacherland Upper Austria”, which reads: Care profession as a teaching – opportunity for the boys!, I wonder: What does the citizen who reads this think? Isn't all that true in there? I can only support this, and I was really happy when I read it, because I thought at least this is where a rethinking takes place in Upper Austria. We shall make this request for the x-th time, even if it is rejected today. We have brought it into the Committee, we have now brought it into the Committee on Health, and we will also bring it into the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We're not going to let go because I'm telling you: There is no way past a new, quality teaching profession in this area. Have courage for new ideas, and also look into the other countries where it works! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13478	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13507	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Yes, I would like to refer to your comments, Mrs Haubner, because you have held a flammable plea for the teaching profession, and I would like to refer to what you have written. As you write, there is a gap between caregivers and the up-to-date medical nurse who can be closed. . I tell you, I strongly argue that we need an additional profession to close a sort of gap between caregivers and senior staff. The demarcation is already confusing enough! Since another profession has to be forced into, only so that you can say that I have created a teaching profession, that is not worth it. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is very worthy! I'm convinced!]] They do not even value the care profession at all. That's not an appreciation when the 15-year-olds come in. You can think about everything. They always say it's ignorance if you don't think about it. So I think with you, with your motion for a resolution, and I believe that there are contradictions. If you are talking about lack of care, you should ask: Why do so many caregivers stay so short in their job? – Certainly not, because below are apprentices striving. That doesn't solve any problem at all, but: They therefore remain so short because there is a high risk of burn-out. We need to discuss why this is the case. Secondly, Why is there such a great bureaucracy, documentation bureaucracy in the hospitals? Is that necessary? – The Minister would be asked to speak a clear word. Not often in the care professions Any misappropriation? Does not the raised care service often do what the caregiver could do? Does not the caregiver often do something that cleaning staff could do? These are questions that need to be asked – but not about the problems we have, creating another problem to do so, an additional profession. Are you aware of what you would do with it? Are you really aware of that? – I think, unfortunately, no. Look, I'm for working together. I'm a doctor, I'm not prepotent, I'm for really solving problems in the hospital. It's difficult enough, because if something happens in the hospital, then you always take the smallest out, and it's always a demarcation problem. With a number of 2.4 million hospital stays, you must be aware that you often have to deal with highly complex, difficult patients, as well as their diseases. And there you can't say, now we're making a new profession – and we don't even know what to do! We do not even know what to do except that we – okay – have a teaching profession for the Chamber of Commerce and a way to accommodate young people. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner:... The curriculum is in the Chamber of Commerce!]] I would turn the question back, Mrs Haubner, I would ask: What does the patient need? I think he needs well-trained caretaker, doctors who work well with him. And that's where the experience is a big point. My main focus would be the question: What can we do about the early retirement of so many nurses? This destroys a lot of knowledge and emotion. I'd also like to ask you: What does the patient need? Don't you think he needs some kind of human experience? – My experience gained in my many years of work in medicine is that the next generation is actually the optimal generation – that is, if a 70-year-old is in the hospital, then a fifty-year-old who cares for him would be optimal; I see this again and again in my ordination – because the understanding for each other is actually very generation-dependent. The whole thing is very difficult and is very well solved by the current up-to-date care service, even in the training, where the boys are very much brought in. But it would be optimal to make sure that we can keep as many people as possible in the profession as many as 30, 40 or 50 years of age – and not to create a new problem that is then called “teaching”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13563	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the need to comply with the Rules of Procedure and to give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13587	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Rasinger has just said that we want to create a teaching profession where we do not know what these people should do. I'm correcting as follows: There has been a complete concept for four years with curriculum and vocational training for a school experiment, where it is precisely defined what they should do. Therefore, this statement was incorrect.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13615	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. I would like to draw attention to the need to interrupt your statements at 3 p.m. to hold a short debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13636	Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is quite legitimate to think about whether or not a new teaching profession is needed. However, I think that Mr Rasinger has already addressed the critical things in a teaching profession in many respects. Similar to him, I share the argument that it is certainly good for those in care to get not only maximum training. It has not been mentioned to me enough that we should actually maintain or develop a certain level of quality, which we do not always have in all circumstances in the very different forms of training we already have in the field of care and care. We already have a dozens of offers in the field of old care and care. We do not necessarily need another profession or a career. - That's one. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The other one, Mr Rasinger, has only striped short, but is actually the exciting point, I think, or one of the exciting points: The people who are now in care There is much too little work to be done. And this, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the enormous use of resources among people, of course, the fact that the care profession is not necessarily one of the most attractive from the payoff. And if you want to get into a nursing profession now through the education, it will certainly not help to attract the education but, on the contrary, it will significantly weaken them further.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13681	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 12 on the agenda for a short debate. [[15:01:00]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13703	The short debate concerns the request made by Mr Neubauer, the Transport Committee for reporting on Amendment 334/A(E) by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of the fourth Danube Bridge and the Westring in the sense of a long-standing structural improvement for the benefit of citizens. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. First, the applicant, Mr Neubauer, receives the floor. Mr deputies, 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13740	Madam President. Dear Mrs Bures! [[The speaker shows a paper on which Federal Minister Bures is depicted and which contains the following title:]] “As soon as the procedure is completed, we will start. Financially, nothing stands in the way of the project!” – This was what Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Bures said in February 2010. What has changed by November 2010 that has suddenly changed this project within half a year, although we can't really talk about the crisis anymore, so that the project is in danger of not being implemented or even being deleted from the plan? It's about the Westring, it's about an important project for Linz, it's about an important project for the Linz Central Area, it's about a project that the Mühlviertel, actually, in the very Upper Austria, should determine in the next few years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since 2009, in a committee in this House, a request has been made by the Freedom Party to draw up a position for this project. And after two years of inactivity, we as Linzer, as the Upper Austrian, suddenly need to know that this project, which is so important for this economic location, is suddenly no longer to come. Ladies and gentlemen! The Westring is no longer just a road and bridge construction project, but now it is also an example of credibility, an example of how politics deals with commitments in this country at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this federal government plays with the feelings of people in many areas, as well as in this area. We Upper Austrians will not let us offer that to you, Mrs Federal Minister! That's not the way to deal with us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The project was equipped with the priority level by the current Federal Chancellor Faymann. The Land of Upper Austria and the City of Linz were granted the implementation. That is to say, in this debate about the Westring it is no longer only about this project itself, but you are here today, Federal Minister Bures – this is also true of German Chancellor Faymann – and it is about your credibility. And that's what you've got to face today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am allowed to give a brief historical overview of those who do not have the Westring project in mind, of course, as we Upper Austrians have been following this project for decades. In 1970, this Westring was already the subject of the general traffic plan developed by Professor Leibbrand, along with the Westbrücke bridge. In 1979, a certain Mr Schüssel Oberösterreich visited and promised us the project – in order to distance himself from it for 25 years at the same time, and it came to a standstill. 25 years of nothingness, in which the Linz Central Area suffocates in traffic, the commuters are in traffic for hours – and now the project is carried to grave when it comes to the ideas of the Federal Minister Bures. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: That's all wrong!]] In 2002, this House decided here the Westring, ladies and gentlemen, that this too should be remembered. And the Federal Minister said: Once the procedure is completed, we will implement the project. Financially, this is not a problem! – 2007, 2009 and 2010 renewed once again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the result has been strange: After everything had been negotiated, the SPÖ Upper Austria suddenly spoke out for this project. Mr Schopf, who listens eagerly here, held a press conference and said that they did not allow this project to be further prevented and delayed. It is important for the Mühlviertel, it is important for the economic location, and therefore the bridge with tunnel solution is of particular priority for the Westring. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am eager to see how these Members will vote here today. That's also the nail sample for you, that must be clear to you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This project also has really good pages. You have to keep in mind what the opinions say. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Weighing the bad!]] There is a discharge of the Linz residential population and thus an insane increase in the quality of life for the people. There is a reduction in noise emissions. It will be possible to shift traffic, which in turn will increase the quality of life for people throughout the central area. And the fine dust – one of the biggest problems a big city currently has – is reduced by 70 percent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: You don't believe that yourself! Read the opinions!]] In view of these arguments, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost an incredible scandal as the Greens behave here! 80 per cent of the Upper Austrian population want this project – and you stand up to 80 per cent of the population of this country, that is to say to you for the next elections, my very dear Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: 20 percent are enough for us!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] You're the project-preventors! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you what work has already been done in advance on the basis of these commitments: 35 percent of the costs were saved by the division of the project. Objects have been dissolved. 138 rental and 68 ownership relationships were dissolved. 870 people were already relocated and 24 houses were replaced, and the trassulation of the Linz tram to Pasching and to Traun oriented at the Westring-Trasse. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Because the bill is always made without the host!]] This was also done only because we had the promises. Houses have already been ground and test drilling completed. I can also tell you the following: On a request from me to Mrs. Federal Minister, Mrs. Bures, answered me in August: The construction project is calculated with the current total cost of €527 million; there is also a lie in this respect by the Greens who in Upper Austria permanently claim that the costs would amount to €1 billion, so the truth is about half. In August, the Federal Minister announced to me the costs charged by her own office – calculated by her office – of €527 million. And she said that the ASFINAG construction programme takes into account the project, the cost reduction is basically carried out by the ASFINAG. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we were all too blue-eyed, we have trusted in the commitment of politics. However, the liberals were not too blue-eyed, while the liberals made a total of six applications for contractual assurance of the project in the Landtag. Klubobmann Steinkellner was once again grateful for this because he did not want to go to this level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened? – These requests were rejected by the votes of ÖVP and SPÖ. This is particularly remarkable, since today the head of state has to go to Vienna to beg, that he may still be able to save one or another. I would like it in the sense of the Upper Austrian population. It is really immense, Mrs. Federal Minister – come back to the subject matter! – to say here today, after 40 years of discussion around the Westring, two meters before the finish line, the families would have to be more important to us than a road. Play a project against families here, that's unscrupulous, and you really have to be ashamed of that. You don't do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is just as not credible as your entire approach to the whole project. We need the West Ring: We need the Westring to secure the economic location, we also need the Westring to improve the traffic situation in Linz, the central area and the Mühlviertel. Therefore, if you make a confession to this project today, you have the opportunity to do so – that is why the deadline request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13908	Mrs Bures has now spoken. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time for you is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e13931	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is important to me that we make record investments in the area of infrastructure in the next few years despite the necessary savings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I think it is good that in economically difficult times – not only in the last two years – we have tied up economic packages that have provided employment and growth, and that we continue to make a significant contribution to the modernisation of Austrian infrastructure. This level of investment, expressed in figures, means that over the next six years, we will invest around €6.5 billion in the road to implement exactly the transport solutions that the population expects from us and, as the business location needs, in the future in Austria. And because it is even more important in economically difficult times to pay particular attention to when what with what benefits and what effects, employment policy and transport policy effects, which money is invested, we have evaluated all 30 new construction projects in the field of road in Austria. We have included transport policy and environmental factors and, of course, we have used cost-benefit calculations to try to have good transport solutions in Austria in the future, which can be financed and are therefore also feasible. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those in the Federal Government who have the greatest understanding that the population wants to have it relieved of congestion, that there is less traffic, less noise and less CO2 emissions. That is why I represent the basic principle of the transport policy of moving from road to rail, an extension of public transport. But with all understanding for all the interests and desires – the economy, the arrants, the population, the commuters – it is, I think, important that you do not close your eyes to reality, and many families have noticed in recent years that something has changed in their sphere of life, in their working world. [[Call the FPÖ:Eben!]] We have experienced the economic crisis not only in Austria, Europe, but worldwide, and we have seen the effects of the financial speculation in recent years. And, of course, this crisis has quite a concrete impact, not only on the budget that will be discussed intensively in the next few days, but also on investment and concrete projects. It is therefore particularly true of the principle which always applies in politics: the principle of economy, economy and effectiveness. And that was and is my efforts as Minister of Transport – while creating good transport solutions to the best conditions for the population and for the economic location. I think that should be our common concern. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The economic crisis has led to the need for massive savings programmes across Europe in public budgets. I would say that the balance sheet, the measures taken by Austria – which is still being discussed – is socially balanced. This has also led to the need for consolidation for each resort. You have decided here in the House before the summer of 2010 with the Financial Framework Act that €555 million will be saved in the infrastructure sector – in the financial framework. I adhere strictly to these savings, because I believe it is important that we have a balanced budget that we are trying to actually make savings. Of course, the economic crisis has not stopped even before undertakings whose owners the Federation is. One of these companies is ASFINAG, which will have around €3 billion less in revenue from the truck toll over the next six years due to the decline in truck traffic – and therefore also through changed traffic forecasts. This means less possible road investment. You can't close your eyes before that! [[Abg. Neubauer: You knew that in February!]] I would have preferred the continuation of the 2007 high-economy, but I can assure you that we had to feel a veritable economic crisis in Europe and worldwide, which is giving us its impact. In Austria, we have many families who have now experienced in the times of the crisis, as it is, to have to look even more closely, how they get over the rounds every day and find out; we have had short work in Austria. So my only appeal is to think with me – and I ask a head of state Pühringer to do so – in the interests of the people of Linz about how we come to a good transport solution for the population – but not with as “explosive” costs as it unfortunately contains the current project. [[Abg. New builder: For 40 years we have been thinking! 40 years!]] I'm making this appeal. Families have to think about how they can get through the rounds with less money, and we will find a better transport solution for Linz, which is not as exploding as the current project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: 40 years of thinking!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr deputies, it is no good if you say 40 years ago – 40 years ago, just as it were, the beginning of the social democratic single government, Bruno Kreisky has become Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Neubauer: He is turning around in the grave in such a social policy!]] Neither Kreisky nor those in politics in 2007 knew that we will have an economic crisis with these effects. We have had 3.9% less economic growth in recent years! Let me tell you again: I think it is very bad if we take into account infrastructure projects with other necessary future investments. I believe that we need future investment in our children, in our youth, in education, research and technology development in order to be competitive as an economic location. [[Abg. Singer: If you cut everything anyway!]] But we also need a modern infrastructure. I'll tell you once again: I believe that in this country no taxpayer and no taxpayer understands that one is not willing to find cost-effective and good solutions. [[Abg. Neubauer: You promised in February!]] Therefore, as long as I bear responsibility, transport policy is not marked by the fact that the countries or regions are making wishes, but rather by what a good transport infrastructure for the people of the country looks like for the economic location, and it is important to look at what we need and in which sections something is needed. [[Abg. New builder: That's ridiculous!]] Therefore, as far as the Westring is concerned: A transport solution for Linz is necessary, but Mr Landeshuptmann Pühringer should be willing to make alternatives as well and to consider how we can actually implement a good transport solution with, as I said, lower costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] That's why I'm doing it. Because it is a matter of easing the public from road traffic and of actually coming to good alternative solutions. This would, by the way, be a good example – because the FPÖ is always talking about administrative reform – for applied administrative reform. [[Abg. Neubauer: This was a project of the ASFINAG!]] So please, don't hesitate to do so when it comes to saving that you see it as a task, and make a contribution to the fact that we have a good Austrian transport infrastructure that people can afford.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14106	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who are now speaking is 5 minutes each. Mr Heinzl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14130	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Grillitsch: Is Heinzl an Upper Austrian...?]] First of all, I should like to welcome a group of Social Democratic Members from Upper Austria to the Vienna Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Haider: What do the Upper Austrian SPÖ delegates say?]] Love – or better: dear colleagues! I have a hard time with “loved colleagues”, but I say now: Ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party! I do not think it is a secret among you that the budgetary situation in Austria is anything but easy at present. [[Abg. May. Haider: Are they still in traffic jams, colleagues from SPÖ?]] In all areas, the infrastructure must be saved. Throughout Austria, infrastructure projects will be re-evaluated, re-dimensioned or construction will begin only later – all over Austria, ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, many important projects will be built in the coming years; our Federal Minister has already pointed this out. [[Abg. New builder: I'm not so sure that the promises always keep that way when...!]] Once again to repeat, especially for colleagues from the Freedom Party: A total of € 18 billion will be invested in the further expansion of the infrastructure in Austria from 2011 to 2016. Of this, 11.5 billion euros flow into the rail and 6.5 billion euros into the road. And now, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats! In contrast, blue-orange infrastructure ministers from 2000 to 2006 – in times of high economic activity – have invested far less in the expansion of infrastructure throughout Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Abg. May. Haider: The project was promised!]] That is why I am delighted to say a warm thank you to our Federal Minister Bures now that she has enforced within the government that, despite the difficult times of the financial and economic crisis, we have such a large infrastructure building programme. [[Member of the FPÖ hold a note with a photo of Federal Minister Bures and the following title: “As soon as the procedure is completed, we will start. Financially, nothing stands in the way of the project!’ SPÖ Federal Minister Doris Bures in February 2010’.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner:... Mayor!]] Ladies and gentlemen, but now to the Westring Linz: Fact is, Linz needs a modern, powerful and environmentally friendly transport solution. There is no doubt about that. The fact that Linz needs a traffic solution has also been explicitly and publicly known by our Mrs. Bures – I can only speak here of the 10th anniversary of the meeting. ==References====External links==* Official website It is also a fact, however, that due to the economic crisis and the decrease in the revenue of ASFINAG, the decline in truck traffic has led to the most massive loss of income. [[Abg. New builder:... February you knew everything! That's stupid!]] Mr. Neubauer, wasn't infrastructure minister Forstinger a colleague of yours from Upper Austria? You know what she did? In times of high economics, it has only made a “stockshoe decree” in the ministry and the freight transport system St. Pölten, although billions of schilling have been invested, has been discontinued! – Let us be glad that we have Doris Bures and not your party colleague! [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Go, go, go!]] Can I tell you that? Just to think, my dear colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, even if you would like to share it – Mr Neubauer, write this down! –: ASFINAG will invest €1.2 billion in Upper Austria alone by 2016. With this new investment sum fixed in the ASFINAG construction programme, Upper Austria is in the leading field of investment among the federal states. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Otherwise we drive with the Riksha, if...!]] And I can remember – to the co-authorship for you, colleague Neubauer; write it down, it's really important! – recall only a few projects: [[Abg. New builder: I don't need that!]] Construction of the S 10, construction of the second tube of the Bosruck Tunnel, construction of the Klaus tunnel chain, renovation of the A 1, security expansion of the infrastructure and so on and so on, thus € 1.2 billion. However, the Westring Linz is one of the most expensive infrastructure projects in Austria with almost €550 million – this is also a fact. [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] Therefore, due to the budgetary situation of ASFINAG, financing is problematic in the present time and cost framework. Therefore, one will be in cooperation with the Land Oberösterreich – the head of state Pühringer; perhaps you have been to the one who has already been introduced, Mr. Neubauer – and the city of Linz have to find other solutions, because it is undisputed: [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Drive Riksha!]] Linz needs a good traffic solution. [[Abg. Neubauer: Time for the government to be replaced that something goes on!]] However, the fact is that everything is saved and talked about taking back social benefits. At this stage in which social benefits are withdrawn, it must also be reasonable to think about road projects. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Madam President. Final sentence: I mean, the federal hand for finding common solutions to Westring Linz is outstretched. It is in the country of Lower Austria, that is to say, with Mr Pühringer, that he should also take this hand. [[Call the FPÖ:Oberösterreich! Upper Austria!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14376	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14398	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you travel by car every day in the morning and in the late afternoon and listen to the traffic radio, you will notice that from Linz there are extensive traffic jams every day up to the traffic collapse. Besides Vienna, there is no second place in Austria that has a situation similar to Linz. That means for thousands of commuters twenty thousand hours of storage. [[Abg. New builder: 80 000 a day!]] Thank you. This means massive environmental pollution, massive loads for the Linz population. For this reason, the country of Upper Austria and the city of Linz began planning a fourth Danube Bridge and the Westring in the 1970s. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] The long history has already been documented by Colleem Neubauer. I would like to take one year, namely the year 2007, in which the project was evaluated, in which an agreement was reached with the then Minister for Infrastructure Faymann between the State of Upper Austria, the City of Linz and the Federal Government. At that time, and I would like to stress this, Mrs Federal Minister, savings have already been put in place and a substantial change has been made in the overall project and a division of the project into the so-called southern part, namely the fourth Danube Bridge with the subsequent tunnel, and the northern part, has been established, i.e. a new framework plan which was approved by the Federal Government. [[Abg. New builder: 35 percent savings!]] – Mr Neubauer, thank you! There were 35 percent savings at the time. In other words, this contribution was made by Oberösterreich in 2007. I would like to make a very conscious point of this saving and say once again: The volume of investment has been cut accordingly and a corresponding measure has already been taken at that time. Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of the A26, the Linz Westring, means a great relief for the commuters on their way to work, university or school. This Westring also means a substantial and significant relief of urban transport and a reduction in road times in the Linz area. It means a large-scale reduction in environmental pollution, it means an increase in road safety, it means a significant improvement in the high-level road network in the Greater Linz area and in the neighbouring regions, and drivers save 1.6 million traffic hours according to calculations. [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... in traffic jams!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Linz needs the West Ring, Upper Austria needs the West Ring. That is why Landeshauptmann Josef Pühringer, the head of state Josef Ackerl and Franz Hiesl and the mayor of Linz Franz Dobusch are also committed to this project. [[Abg. May. Widmann: No success!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They answered this question with the question of the families. I expressly reject Mr Pühringer's accusation that he is acting against the families on this issue. I can remind you that the country of Upper Austria recently introduced the Free Kindergarten for all families – for me, it is an essential indication of how the country of Upper Austria thinks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice pass.]] Estimated colleagues from Upper Austria in the SPÖ Group, I would have liked to see a Upper Austrian or Upper Austrian position on this issue. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Dear colleague Neubauer, I am delighted by the commitment of the FPÖ and the positive view of the Linz Westring. However, I do not consider any requests for deadlines and I am also convinced that this deadline proposal does not provide a decisive solution. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is about legal certainty!]] I am convinced that a good solution will be found in the coming weeks, in the sense of all the Upper Austrians. [[Abg. New builder: But I didn't hear that out!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14525	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14546	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the crowd lines! High house! On the topic of Westring: I don't think it's necessary to go into detail, it's given – not only through the long duration of planning, but also through the arguments that the Greens have against it over and over again. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You can't even argue!]] Mrs Moser, we can do nothing about the green motorway solutions. We know this from the Innkreis- “Sparautobahn”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This pick-up car is the last thing Upper Austria needed. The pendlers in the Mühlviertler district – but not only the mill fourtlers Pendlers, also those from the other regions that have to change sides in the Linz area – need this project very, very necessary! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: They're in traffic in Ottensheim!]] And when Mr Heinzl, spokesperson of the SPÖ, said: Well, with public transport, you can reach everything, I answer: Mr Heinzl, I know you're Lower Austrian. Come on. You come to us once! Those from the hazel pit are equally in traffic jams, which does not necessarily help much. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The Westring won't help!]] – They don’t, but the others from the Leondinger area already, and those from the south, who have to go to the north, to the Mühlviertel, and vice versa, which it helps a lot. What I don’t understand is why the words “evaluate ” and“ test again ” are now in the mouth. That is why I do not understand – even if Mr Jarolim and Mr Matznetter are not here: Previously, the colleague Wurm was discussed what actually happened under Federal Minister Forstinger. Then all kinds of events have been quoted. Mrs. Forstinger has done one thing: It has adopted a general transport plan, and it has been valid since then. He has not been changed since then, nor has he been made new, nor anything else, even among you, Federal Minister Bures. - No problem! Whoever works makes mistakes – we now consider this to be a mistake. But before you was also someone who didn't make any mistakes. I don't think he worked very much either. - Good. You made at least one proposal, you said: Well, let's make a country road! – Ladies and gentlemen, a country road?! – If you didn’t mean a country, that means that the country pays everything and the alliance is fine. Let's think about the highway, the Anschober version, so to speak. Now I don't know. We have a narrow highway there, we then make a miserable tunnel and a bridge, everything in the highway version, and – just like the Innkreis motorway – in 20 years we come to it: The whole thing is not going that way, we actually need the double! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Six-track through Upper Austria!]] What does it actually cost to spread to the double? Now that the redundancies are complete, where the EIA is almost finished – even if Mr. Anschober does not want to be true – we come to the idea that we are making a mini-project. But it really can't be! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... tunnels!]] That can't be exactly why – and I'm going back to my professional life now and I'm deliberately looking up to my colleague Keck; he knows what I'm doing, and he's on the customer's side: We often have large projects for our company of 100, 200 million €. And if it does not fit the companies in which Collaborator Keck is inside, then the volume will be reduced by 3, 4, 5 percent when awarded the contract. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Now we have projects across the infrastructure area with a total project of €10 billion and more. It can't be that in all these projects we can't even save 1.2 percent to raise this ridiculous €527 million from the Westring and the Danube Bridge. Whoever can't save there is a false occupation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We come back to credibility. I still remember posters on which I saw colleague Eidenberger, an Upper Austrian countryman, as an Indian, with the faithful oath that the West Ring is coming. – I think his Indian spring is hanging him pretty wrong now. But everyone else always promised it before and after the election. – Now are different times. That is why I really appeal to all those concerned – and this is not only Mrs Bures, but it is equally true that Mr Pröll and his uncle in particular – that this cannot be done so! It really can't be that we're making some garden roads and country roads in Lower Austria priority over this incredibly important highway project. It can't be that lobbyism counts more, it can't be that Pröll counts more in its human width than pühringer with its honest concerns. That is why this proposal for a time limit is meant, because if we do not have today's deadline to 29 on the 30th. seriously discuss this project, then there will be nothing more. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This is my appeal to the two major parties: that they mean it honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14670	Mrs Bures once again spoke. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14693	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Deimek, I am referring to the part of your remarks with which you have concluded, namely that it is up to who or which country is developing the greater pressure whether projects are being implemented or not. This is exactly the way of thinking about the past, which is exactly the way I think in transport policy, because a forward-looking transport policy is based on transport forecasts, based on what transport routes I need to ensure good mobility for the population and for the economy, and transport policy in Austria also includes the question: [[Member of the FPÖ hold a note with a photo of Federal Minister Bures and the following title: “As soon as the procedure is completed, we will start. Financially, nothing stands in the way of the project!’ SPÖ Federal Minister Doris Bures in February 2010’]] How did I prevent additional transit routes and shift more traffic from the road to the rail? My transport policy decisions are characterised, not by what pressure or what political power any country exerts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[The members of the FPÖ keep the above-mentioned note in height.]] This was the problem of the general transport plan: That was a wish list of countries. – A wish list of countries will not exist with me, but I am looking for good knowledge and conscience for good transport solutions for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder:... you will demand 35 million for the investments made!]] Because also the papers are kept up again and again: First of all, I thank you for the really beautiful photo of me, which is on it, but, as it were, independent of it – joke aside –: [[Abg. New builder: This is beautiful!]] It does nothing if conditions change! If, in 2007 – if you listen very briefly, if it is serious to you – we have assumed that a transport minister Werner Faymann has assumed that we will have an increase in the revenue from the truck toll during the high economy, which, unlike the past, we will invest in a modern road network with high employment effects, with a strengthening of the economic location in Austria, then we cannot compare this with times when we have nationalized banks in which we have tied bank billions of money in which – as in the last two years – people were affected by short work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] The whole world has felt that something has changed in these two years. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: February 2010! February 2010!]] They must also feel it, and therefore we must act politically and cannot close our eyes. This is my appeal to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore – in order to summarize it again –: I believe that we need a traffic solution in the Linz area, but I also believe that it is an hour's commandment to have at least the willingness to think about economic alternatives. And I also tell you what has really been done with all the other federal states: to think about these alternatives. Mr Deimek, it has succeeded in not saying that this is no longer a federal road, the countries are supposed to pay it, it is going to be the national road. Because this is moving back and forth, that's no saving for me, that's just kicking the ball back and forth. This does not help the population. [[Call at the FPÖ:The procedure is completed!]] That is why we said: If the country takes over rescales if not every bypass has to be a motorway if we can save a lot of money together by building it cheaper, then the federal government takes over the costs. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] We've signed with federal states that federal roads are becoming state roads because it's cheaper. We have concluded with federal states that we are redimensional projects because the traffic forecasts allow it. We have agreed with federal states that we will choose other periods of time. We have concluded with federal states that the countries are taking over the pre-financing of projects. And if this has been achieved with eight federal states, I assume that it will also succeed with Upper Austria. Because I am convinced that if you want a solution for the Linz population, we will find one together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14805	Mrs Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14827	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First: Mrs Minister, I am grateful for the fact that you are speaking and replying to us even when we are in the House, not only when we have a deadline, but also when we are in the debate. Secondly, Mrs Minister, I am grateful to you for finding clear words about the financial implications. We have always pointed out the realities when discussing Linz traffic problems. We can discuss the problem with realism, ladies and gentlemen, and then there will be a different solution model from what has been in the region for 30, 40 years as a chimary, as a model of the Linz and the Upper Austrian Central Transport Policy. Let's take a look at the problem: People want to go to work in Linz. There are several possibilities: Either I drive by car, have petrol wear, have energy wear, have time wear, or I take public transport. We have always pointed out that we need to expand public transport in Linz and finally want to direct the freighter streams to public transport. And we have always pointed out that the land of Upper Austria's sifting policy must be maintained in the regions, because people are not doing well. There they build a house cheaply somewhere in the country, and then they need exorbitantly a lot of money monthly to get to work from the place of residence. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The problem is living and working in different places and the associated mobility handling. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Let's take a closer look at the reality: People want to go from the upper Mühlviertel to the city area of Linz. And what do you think? Ladies and gentlemen, where it stands at present? – It is currently in Ottensheim. According to your knowledge and your knowledge, the Westring is only planned far to Ottensheim at the city border of Linz. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You solve with a bridge, you solve with a tunnel that is five kilometers after the traffic jam – do count! – Not the problem! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Five kilometers after the dam are bridge and tunnels. I'm sure you won't solve the congestion problem. Excuse me, but you're so blinded! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: We are in traffic every day!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Poor Vienna, if it gets such transport politicians!]] Point three: If we already have the dam at Bindermichl in Linz, where we have extra housings and an additional trail, which now makes problems with road safety time and again when we enter this coniferous tube a second high-ranking road at this narrowpass, then it goes there at the hourly distance. I can't answer that, and you shouldn't be responsible for it. And that's the consequence of a Westring in Linz. That is why I am grateful that Mrs Bundesminister addressed the ASFINAG's income situation. Of course, the income and financial situation is an important argument for me, but not the transport policy argument. I told you: The traffic jam in front of the bridge, the traffic jam after the bridge, the traffic jam in front of the tunnel, the traffic jam after the tunnel. Bridge and tunnels do not use anything against the traffic jams. You can try to tell everyone in Upper Austria, but people have already looked through it. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: That's why 80 percent are for the project! But I understand the greens: 20 percent are more than now 10 percent!]] If the financial argument is now used, I am glad. Then: Look See for yourself, in the calculation of the ASFINAG: The Westring is listed in the project result bill with minus € 323 million. Minus 323 million €! That's a way too expensive a project. That's where I come to the core. You know exactly why it's too expensive and how it came to the project. The state of Upper Austria and the city of Linz wanted to save money, so through political influence, a regional discharge road receives the rank of a motorway, so that it falls into the Federal Roads Act and falls under ASFINAG competence. This is the typical procedure that we criticize in Lower Austria, which we also criticize in Styria and which, of course, we always criticize in Upper Austria. It was a “linking ” from the outset. It was a left-wing policy that you carried out there in the sense of protecting false facts, foreclosure of false facts. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Amon: But the definition is interesting!]] A motorway was never necessary to solve this traffic problem. And it has therefore been completely wrong to raise that in ASFINAG rank. The only background – you know just as well as I do – was that the country of Upper Austria and the city of Linz wanted to save costs. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: From now on, the Greens are only making right politics!]] Only: The costs are so high that even the ASFINAG can no longer afford to do so. Now I close with a very simple example, I think the simplest example shows you best: If you have a home with which you owe yourself, we say you owe €5 million because you have built generously, will you take in another million to afford a four-track garage entrance? Do you do that? I don't think you're doing that. And neither will we need this Westring in Linz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14950	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e14972	Madam President. High house! In a single point, I would like to tell Mr Moser: This policy concerning the Linz Westring is a left-wing policy: First of all to make long teeth, to promise something and then not to comply politically is really last-class. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And, Mr Cap, to address you: I wish the Viennans all the best with this left-wing policy in the Federal Capital. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: You have not gone!]] A question at the beginning also to the SPÖ: I'm really surprised. This is a classical Upper Austria topic. I also hear benevolent words on the part of the ÖVP for the West Ring – I am excited whether they will vote accordingly. But I miss word messages from the Upper Austrians from the SPÖ. They've colded them, they can't talk, they don't have any opinion. Mrs Minister, one thing is also peculiar: that you take the floor twice in this debate before all the opposition parties are allowed to give their basic statement here. They seem to need a lot of explanation on this matter. We have already heard a lot about the need for the West Ring: It is about the discharge of tens of thousands of commuters from the Mühlviertel. It is also about the discharge of the arrainers in Linz. The words ‘dust’, ‘emissions’, ‘noise’ have fallen in this context. It is a road that de facto runs underground, so people are not directly touched. It is about upgrading the economic location of Upper Austria. It is about road safety, and it is also about further developing public transport. One doesn't rule out the other. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But in one point, Mrs. Minister, I am somewhat disappointed with your plans: This West Ring is getting narrower and narrower. That's not a West Ring anymore, it's only a three-quarters ring, but it's already missing the North Chain in your planning, so it's only a flick work. We want to build a road for people with people. At the time, I was actively involved in the S 10 and called for citizens' participation. And I can tell you one thing: We need the Westring, it makes sense, it's useful, but we also need to build it with the people. In addition to the EIA, I do not believe that it is against the need to increase citizens' participation accordingly, to inform and involve people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the direction of ÖVP: How credible are your statements out here today? I remember the APA broadcast of the 10th. July 2007 by ÖVP infrastructure speaker Kukacka: The Westring is fully protected by law. Again: The Westring is fully protected by law. And he goes on to say: There is no reason, therefore, to question the realization of the project. – What else is this word? These are things that we must also demand from this Federal Government, for: We have the promise of Faymann. We have the promise of you, Mrs Minister, from February this year. I already remember that Upper Austria is a strong federal country. We are net payers for tax revenue towards the federal government. We are the economic and industrial location of Austria. And we need this infrastructure measure to be able to continue to do so in the future. If you look closer at the infrastructure framework programmes, you can see that exactly what I said earlier is happening: In the programme 2008 to 2013: Construction start Westring: Summer 2009, Release: ==References== Now, in the program 2011 to 2016: Start of construction: no indication, release: no indication. It is only inside: the expected start of construction and the release of traffic is still open, depending on ongoing discussions with the country of Upper Austria. – So zero and void, no more concrete commitments. Then the country, the head of state with its deputy, Mr. Mayor of Linz – I am already excited how the SPÖ will explain this to Mr. Dobusch and Mr. Ackerl – will come to you, after they have been upholstered in Upper Austria, medium on the table; the newspapers are full of it. And what are they coming back with? With empty hands – no west ring. The only thing they've got is a group picture with lady. After congratulating me, the comrades will certainly not get rid of the traffic jam. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, The Westring is also a question of credibility for the Ministers from Upper Austria, for Mr Stöger, Mr Mitterlehner and also for Mr Fekter, and he is also a question of the credibility of the SPÖ and ÖVP Members. We from the BZÖ are quite prepared to make our contribution as well. If we think of new, intelligent solutions, we think of PPP models! That would be possible, too. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: That's too expensive! That would be even more expensive!]] I also miss this in this debate, which has not yet been discussed. Or, for example, a participation of the country of Upper Austria. The FPÖ suspension request is good and right from our point of view, it is also supported, but it could be, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, since this request comes from you that, you know, the SPÖ and also the ÖVP sometimes have difficulties to agree here, because it comes from the “evil” opposition. There are then semantic, linguistic problems, difficulties in understanding and much more. I have therefore allowed myself to help the SPÖ and the ÖVP a little, and have gone here and made the request from the Landtag in Upper Austria, which has recently been decided with the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP, right now under TOP 28. We will then see whether this ÖVP and this SPÖ are taking part in the National Council here in the proposal of the Upper Austrian Land Day, which has been decided by its votes. I am already excited about this, because if you vote differently here than in Upper Austria, then you will have to explain this to the people in Upper Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15052	Mr Mag. Widmann, very briefly, with regard to the right of speech of the ministers: This morning, the Members of the BZÖ complained a lot when, at the end of the current hour, Mr Mitterlehner, at the end of the current hour, when there was no more speaking rights of Members, once again spoke. The Federal Minister has not done this today. So at some point, ladies and gentlemen, they will have to decide how they would like it to be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: What is the comparison? What's the comparison? What did you want to say?]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Members Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen, to the Transport Committee for reporting on Amendment 334/A(E) by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues with regard to the implementation of the fourth Danube Bridge and the Westring in the sense of a long-standing structural improvement for the benefit of citizens. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[15:53:50]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15107	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda item 12. As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Hellerer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15132	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will return to the topic of care and care as a teaching profession. I can sign everything that has already been said about the needs of nurses today. It is the risk of experiencing and suffering the need for care, of course, more and more present at the age of high age. There are currently 550 000 people in need of care in Austria. 435,000 of them receive federal or national care. On average, care needs last 7 years. It has been calculated that by 2050 the number of people in need of care will double and, in contrast, the number of members who can provide care services will be halved. Therefore, as the labour market forecasts indicate, there is a need for care workers, which will certainly increase in the next few years. It's alluring – I admit – to deal with a teaching profession, but you have to ask exactly what you need from young people. It is already possible for young people who know exactly what they want to do to pursue their vocational training. However, if you want to work in the care sector, you need to know that you have to deal with people with disabilities all the time, with sick people. And there is a question of whether a 15-year-old person is already in a position to assess exactly what requirements are actually required in the profession of care. In Austria you have to do the 17th. In order to be able to take up training as a graduate nurse or a graduate nurse, this has a real right reason: It is an age limit where one can assume that mental and physical strength is already present among young people, so that they can also decide consciously that the care profession is the right one for them. It has already been mentioned by a number of previous speakers today that there must be some personal stability and maturity in order to meet all the needs that are placed on the person in the care profession. 15-year-olds cannot meet this requirement profile. Therefore For this reason, the creation of a teaching profession should not be considered as a target. It also applies, of course, that the highest quality of care is to be achieved especially in the care sector by the people who do the care work. In the interests of caregivers, too, it is natural to use those who are able to do the best possible care. It is true that there is a high drop-out quota in this profession, that there are many professional entrepreneurs who have to experience burn-out diseases every day. Here it is appropriate to question why so many people from the care profession change to another profession, who cannot meet these demands, cannot meet these requirements. So I think it is in the sense of young people who, for the first time, choose to become employed, not to let them go into the care work within the framework of a teaching profession, as they cannot be aware of what could happen to them. That is why we will not be able to give our consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15180	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 963 report of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their agreement to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[15:58:55]] 13. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1334/A by Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, Members of Parliament on a Federal Act amending the Medicines Act (964 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1122/A(E) by Mr Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, colleagues on homeopathic medicinal products on a health certificate (965 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 173/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues, on the reduction of the lower limit on addictions and psychotropic substances (966 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15250	We now come to points 13 to 15 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15280	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The three proposals which have just been presented by the President will be dealt with differently. The request made by Mr Spadiut regarding a federal law amending the pharmaceutical law will not receive our consent, although I believe that the content of this law is on and on itself a more correct one, namely the possibility for pharmacies to produce a patient-individual composition of the once-, daily, weekly or monthly periods in blisters. This is already happening in some federal states. Of course, the criticism made by the BZÖ that there are partly insufficient provisions here is correct, but I think that the right way would be more likely to ensure that these provisions can finally be implemented instead of lifting and disposing of this regulation. I do not think this is the right way because I believe that this is something that will also be important for the future so that patients can be cared for individually. Especially there are examples of how this works, I think it is a right and good way. Mr Spadiut's request concerning homeopathy is approved. I believe that there must also be a rethinking in health policy, that methods other than the so-called school medicine must also be recognized that the costs of insurance are paid to patients. Above all, if effective mechanisms are really detectable, there is no reason, in my opinion, to say: No, it's not paid! Homeopathy is an eternal cap, a problem for many years now, and I think that we Austrians could already take on a role model. The third request for negotiation is my request. We want to achieve a reduction in the limits on drugs. Given the recent drug report and the recent rise in drug users and drug deaths, this is really a command of the hour. We should all try to ensure that the entry into drugs and, subsequently, drug addiction is being pushed back more and more. The goal must be to have a drug-free society, only then can we reduce drug use.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15317	Mr Spindelberger is now speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15338	High house! In contrast to my previous speaker, we disagree with what is happening in homeopathy. If I accept Mr Spadiut's request, in which he calls for the health insurance companies to take over the financing of all homeopathic medicinal products in the future, I must say: From my point of view, this is not even worth the paper on which it stands, because instead of discussing objectively how to deal with the shortage of health insurance funds, you also want to look at additional benefits to our health insurance providers with this request, as well as benefits that are justified by nothing, but by nothing at all. On the one hand, the health insurance companies, whether they lack – and this is what you constantly do – always bad in the public and other In addition to demanding more than questionable additional benefits, I consider that a schizophrenic procedure is necessary. Mr. Dr. Spadiut, you know very well that, from the law, the health insurance companies are obliged to ensure that the scope of health care is sufficient and appropriate, but on the other hand, the extent of the necessary, as it is so beautiful, will not be exceeded. This means, in addition, that the benefits of statutory health insurance can only be provided if these are scientifically recognised healing methods – as I have already said in the Committee. And whether a healing method is scientifically recognized or not, the Supreme Council of Sanity is still established in Austria. To get it to the point: There is no scientific study that proves that homeopathic agents bring with them the desired healing process. For me, this is quite simply expensive placebos, and it is certainly not the responsibility of health insurance companies to bear the costs of such medical experiments. This has already been decided by the Supreme Court in several decisions. This does not mean, however, that the cost of alternative healing is generally excluded. The condition for the health insurance companies that costs can be taken into account in individual cases is that, in advance, reasonable promising treatments have already been tried according to scientifically recognised methods. Only then can and may in practice be taken over by health insurance providers of the cost replacement for alternative healing methods. For all these reasons it was not possible for us to agree to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15381	Mr Grünewald has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15402	High house! I just want to focus on two things. Firstly, the individual packaging of medicines to be carried out by pharmacies. Critical voices were voiced that appropriate regulations were missing in the pharmacies. These have now been recovered by a change in the pharmacy operating system, and the whole thing now means – a totally exciting word – reblistering operating order. That could be the unword of the year, still remember well! Should a journalist be present? You turn and ask you tomorrow what is called the “Neuverblisterung operating order” and if you answer with “Mh?” he will ask you: Why did you agree or say no? - So, be careful! Secondly, The reduction in drug levels has been discussed forever. They have also been continuously reduced; I remember the debate years ago. However, this does not mean that it induces a drug-free society – it will never exist, even if we wanted it, it cannot exist – but it leads to the criminalisation of users, of sick people, of addicts, and it does not help those whose parents either. I believe that the money that should be made available for the fight against addiction should be used where drugs are widely manufactured, distributed and traded. It would be better to lock people up. or to judge and damage their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15441	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15463	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to make it clear right away that we will not give our approval to all three requests. We have already argued at the Committee meeting, and I would just like to address a few points. This can be about a list. [[The speaker holds a small welded plastic sackerl in the height]] You see, there's no name on it yet, unfortunately, it would still be easy to rub down. This may be a vulnerability, but there have certainly not occurred those flaws, the colleague Karlsböck, on 16 May. July 2009, when we passed the law, so to speak, painted as a devil on the wall: that discounted drugs are purchased from any European country, namely medicines that have expired, and are sold in homes with the consuling in Austria or elsewhere. I can assure you that it has not been known to God so far, and I hope that this will remain the same. We said: Yes, there are certainly always flaws in all the systems we have, and there may also be some of you mentioned in the list, Dr. Spadiut, but they have not yet occurred. That is why we say: Let's just stay this way, it's only a year gone by, we'll evaluate in the near future and we hope we've made the right decision! I am quite sure that we will continue to observe this very, very critically. As far as homeopathy is concerned, we do not have the critical approach that the speaker has addressed before me. Of course, it is – and I believe this is also a good principle that applies to us in Austria – that there is something similar to that of the social partners among those who act as doctors and social security bodies and, of course, everyone else involved in the system. There the subject is well taken up, there you finally know what is manageable and what can be implied. Homeopathy certainly also has its good sides and its benefits. I myself could take advantage of these advantages. The fact that the costs are not replaced is, of course, a burden for many. I have been able to afford it, for others it is undoubtedly a problem. On the third request concerning the reduction of the lower limit on addictions and psychotropic substances, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, I can tell you that it is already possible to issue penalties below the existing limit even if there are repetition cases. That is why I do not think that what you are asking for in your request is necessary. As a whole, I believe we all have the same objectives, but we cannot give our approval to these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15509	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15532	Madam President. Minister! In advance, I would like to say that we are not in any way disturbed by the amendment of the pharmaceutical law relating to reblistering, but we think this law is very good. What bothered us is that the promised and planned regulation has not been implemented. However, we were assured in the Committee that this regulation is already under review. If this review does not take years, we can live with it. We'll see exactly how long it'll take. Homeopathy. Mr Spindelberger, due to your statements, it is likely that you have no idea of homeopathy at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are talking about “additional costs”, you need to know that homeopathic drugs can only be used alternatively to chemotherapy or medicines. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Alternatively – do you understand “alternative”?; that or that – that is, there can be no additional cost. You are also talking about Placebos, right, but I would like to ask you to explain this once my cattle, which I treat with homeopathic medications and which thereby get healthy! – They don’t get well with placebos. So much for your statements on homeopathy. In addition, homeopathy is a recognised complementary medical cure. In case of any discomfort, immediate use of antibiotics and chemotherapy leads to mutations of viruses and bacteria, drug intolerance and allergies. We should give patients the opportunity to get well with homeopathic medicines, so they should be paid by the health insurance fund. Antibiotics should not always be used. [[Abg. Donabauer: Do you also pay more contributions?]] - What for? Alternatively, Mr President, you know nothing either. I don't know, stay with the Farmers' Federation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The statements by Mr Maier of the SPÖ, who called the homeopaths “hand-lifters” and “charlatans” were unacceptable. As a self-proclaimed, omniscient consumer protection guru, he needs to know that medications are paid by the health insurance fund only if they are purchased according to prescriptions from physicians. He thus calls honorable physicians, who in addition to school medicine also use homeopathy for healing, as charlatans. This designation and discrimination must be strongly condemned. Ladies and gentlemen, do not let ignorant colleagues turn away from homeopathy! Homeopathy has a future, homeopathy helps! Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15607	Mr Herbert is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15629	Madam President. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Dr. Grünewald, the FPÖ application, which stands for disposition here, concerning the reduction of the limit quantities in the limits regulations on addiction drugs and psychotropic substances annexed to the Addictions Act, is neither about the fiction of a drug-free society nor about the criminalisation of consumers. Rather, it is a question of reducing the limits set in these two regulations far too high to a practicable level and also reasonable for the safety police and health work of the authorities. In fact, it is true that many drugs, which are available on and for themselves legally, enjoy very high popularity in the drug addiction scene. This can also be explained easily: On the one hand, they are much cheaper compared to the usual drug price, and on the other hand they are much easier available, because they often trade in the scene, though unlawful. The fact of this misuse is well known. The fact is that, from an administrative point of view, one cannot really meet it efficiently, precisely because, in the definition of the size of the crowd, which in the abusive area can lead to a restrictive effect within the meaning of the Drugs Act, the limit value is too high. We therefore support the reduction of these limits in the regulations to a level which allows both the police and health authorities to work more efficiently and more sustainablely. Again in your direction, Dr. Grünewald: This is not about the criminalisation of addiction diseases, but rather about promoting the public authorities, the security police, as well as the mission in the field of health care, and also in the interests of the people's desire for a society that is as dry as possible and safe as possible in the interests of procurement crime. That is what this request is aimed at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15661	Mr Vock is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15682	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Spindelberger, I cannot understand your argument. If you are talking about homeopathy and you still see it as contrary to recognized medicine, then this is one opinion that goes back a hundred years or perhaps even goes back to the deepest Middle Ages. Today homeopathy is widely advanced and also recognized. Surveys show that 97 percent of Austrians know about homeopathy and 57 percent of Austrians use it as well. Meanwhile, there are also specialists and domestic doctors who prefer to prescribe homeopathic drugs rather than conventional medicine. It is also not logical for me to understand that homeopathic means must be more expensive automatically. So many drugs are obtained scientifically only in connection with high costs, the entire research and development work has to be paid. This is not the case with the homeopathic drug. That's just knowledge passed on from generation to generation. I do not see this years of research in the background and therefore not these high costs. That means that this can even be cheaper for the health insurance companies. It is also true that some health insurance companies recognize some homeopathics. That is exactly the content of this request: that equal treatment should take place, that a uniform procedure of all health insurance companies should take place. This would only lead to legal certainty for patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15716	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for any final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 964 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 965 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a sign of this kind. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 966 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:20:06]] 16. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1247/A(E) by Mrs Dr Walter Rosenkranz, Members of Parliament, on the possibility of voluntary work of firemen in accordance with their duties (967 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1293/A(E) by Mrs Dr. Andreas Karlsböck, Members, on the removal of insurance obligations for resident doctors (968 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15801	We now come to the points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15828	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the medical law Novelle, decided before the summer break, the liability insurance for doctors has been amended to ensure that there is now a compulsory insurance. However, the government parties were then overlooked that the amount of insurance had been multiplied by an unlimited number of cases. Just a moment to remember: The draft law provides that the minimum amount of insurance for each insurance case should have been €3 million in the professional liability insurance scheme for all established doctors. So far, the scheme has been valid for three cases per year. This would have been incalculable for insurance, because infinite, risk means what would have been associated with a massive increase in premiums due to the dramatic increase in risk for insurance companies. After massive protests and numerous talks with the government parties, it was possible to reduce medical liability insurance to a maximum of € 2 million for a maximum of three cases per year and negotiate this. With this, we have saved the doctors premiums of around €50 million. But in my opinion, here's a little miscarriage: One has also taken the resident doctors into the law, and that is an overwhelming arrangement. A resident doctor is a doctor who has his ordination address at his residential address and has quit his medical activity in general, but still wants to perform small medical activities for the general public, for example as a football, theatre doctor and the like. These are activities to be done here for a colleague who has already been established with a very great experience, however, which, as I think, we should not give up as a society. However, the resident doctor must be included in the medical list today. He thus receives the right to vote, but has to pay limited chamber and welfare fund contributions. And until then, of course, every resident doctor had an insurance. However, the premiums of these insurances were blatantly low. Most of the time they were involved in any group insurance. The fact that the resident doctors are now subject to compulsory insurance is that there is a danger that the premiums will also be increased here and that our colleagues then feel that they no longer want to take action. As has been said, we feel that the insurance obligation for resident doctors is overwhelming. This threatens to cause a massive decline in the number of resident doctors. That is why we have requested that this exception be introduced in the law in order to provide the general public with the experience and experience of the old-fashioned colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15871	There has now been a technical problem. The time with Dr. Karlsböck has not passed. So we gave 3 minutes to the Freedom Party, I think. [[Abg. Riepl: We have nothing to give!]] Next, Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15902	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing two requests from the liberals: On the one hand, the request that employed and retired doctors may also be fire surgeons. The second request concerns the abolition of insurance obligations for resident doctors. There is a negative committee report on both of them, which we will then also confirm. For the first time, I can say that it is established who can be a fire doctor. This is regulated in the Fire Department's instructions: Doctors of the entire medicine with ius practicendi or who are in education or who have the right to exercise independently. In the Medical Act, this activity is classified as an independent medical activity for fire surgeons, even if it takes place privately, voluntarily or free of charge. The Medical Law also regulates that specialist doctors have to limit themselves to their special subject. And the doctor's law already regulates that retired doctors can work with a resident doctor's report as a fire doctor. The inclusion in the list of doctors, which is undoubtedly very important, will also ensure that medical work and probably also compliance with professional obligations for fire brigades, in particular compulsory training. And this is crucial so that treatment can take place at any time after the latest state of medical science. We believe that the current legal situation is quite sufficient. In addition, more than 38 000 doctors worked in 2008: more than 12 700 general physicians, more than 18,000 specialists, so that there is no need from the number of doctors. We therefore see no need for any change either. A note on the second request concerning the removal of insurance obligations for resident doctors. A typical activity for resident doctors is the representation in the established area. Of course, the responsibility for representation is also a matter of liability in the event of defects in treatment, and no insurance obligation would mean inequality within the professional cooperative and would also be completely unreasonable to the patient. That is why we also reject it. In addition, we should wait for the report that the Minister of Health will present by the end of 2012, namely the report on the impact of the obligation to enter into professional liability insurance. To sum up, we believe that we cannot join these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15948	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15969	The Austrian law and Parliament really regulate everything up to the smallest detail in this Republic, now also who may or may not be employed as a fire doctor or doctor. It is difficult to understand that doctors or doctors who have been retired under Austrian medical law cannot or can only be difficult to work. It was argued that retired doctors could also be very fragile or motion resistant. But here I appeal to the reason of the fire brigade – it will also exist there – that such people will not be sailed off the Danube Tower or included in a burning 60-storey high-rise house. I would prefer reason and explain to myself that there are no major restrictions here. That these doctors will not exceed their speciality – I ask: What does an ENT doctor at the fire brigade when he is Shouldn't you exceed the compartment? What's a gynecologist doing in the fire department? We should therefore rely more often on the house mind and not regulate everything in detail by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e15996	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16018	Madam President. Minister! I would like to comment on Mr Rosenkranz's request concerning firearm doctors. Just so that Mr. Rosenkranz doesn't make me ignorant again, I'm sending in advance: I have been working for many years in a volunteer fire brigade in the rank of a section fire inspector and also in training. [[Abg. List: (Congratulation) Honourable!]] Among other things, this request concerns the need for retired doctors to check the ability to breathe. This is precisely because the directives alone are: For the acceptance of the AKL test, the established doctor must be fire doctor with appropriate sports medical training or fire doctor and specialist for internal medicine. - Quote. In the AKL test, several instruments such as an EKG and a lot more are needed, and therefore retired doctors will not be easily able to carry out this AKL test, while maintaining that this AKL test also contributes to the safety of firemen. I think this request is so important that a state-of-the-art dispute should be settled within the Chamber of Physicians in order to enable these retired doctors, firemen who may be transferred to the second group, to remain in the first group. We will not agree to this request because we see no reason to deal with this matter to the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16062	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16084	Madam President. Federal Minister! The question of what a retired specialist can do now, Mr Spadiut, of course, has hidden a little. But what is it about? – Mr Karlsböck has already made it: In a statement from the Minister of Health to the President of the Austrian Fire Department, he meant that every doctor should be a fire doctor, including a specialist, in his field. For example, the instructions include administering vaccinations. Now my question is: As a specialist, may the pathologist administer a vaccination or must say: Unfortunately God, you're still a little too healthy for my trade, so I can't give you any vaccination!Unknown term type: "%s".? – In fact, there are still ambiguities here. On the question of the link to the resident doctor: If he's a resident doctor, he's a member of the doctor's board and has to pay a chamber charge. Which retired doctor or resident doctor – he thinks I'm not crazy and pay, I do the volunteer, I'm a fire doctor free of charge – stays in the chamber and pays there, though a small amount, chamber cover? – It just can't be that way. Just to see the order of magnitude: There are 300 firemen for the approximately 93,000 volunteer fire brigades. The group of persons that would be involved shall comprise 50. Granted, this is a small part for a doctor's chamber or for the Austrian doctor's chamber, but for the total number of fire doctors, it is of course a certain group. I am therefore going to allow myself, since the Minister of Health in the Committee has also meant that he should have any constructive further development to cover the appropriate categories of doctors in the form of a request, so that one really knows which category of doctor which activities to the For example, the medical supervision of a youth camp may be made. Can this be done, for example, by a retired doctor? – If Mr Spadiut says so, he may not be allowed to do so. That's where we want legal certainty. What does it say at the end of the opinion? – Should the opportunities shown in current medical law in 1998 not be sufficient to allow the activities of fire brigades to be sufficient, one of the training and activity of emergency doctors would probably be similar in the Medical Law 1998 and, at least, to discuss widely. - Quote. That's what we wanted to deal with in the National Council, because the doctor's law belongs here, but you're preventing it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16132	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16153	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! As regards the request concerning the removal of the insurance obligation for resident doctors, I would like to say here that it is of course the safety of patients that a treatment mistake, which can always occur somewhere, must also be legally insured accordingly, otherwise a private damage claim may not be covered. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsböck: They're all insured anyway!]] Therefore, in the sense of patients, this request should not be supported. On the second request concerning firearms doctors: Fire department doctors are also subject to the Medical Law and, of course, to the Fire Department's instructions. It sets out exactly which doctors can be used as fire surgeons in the voluntary field. Firemen also learn a corresponding education and training in the framework of the voluntary fire brigade. Here too, they are subject to the relevant professional training rules within the framework of their activities. Here too, liability, everything must be comprehensible and legal as well as legally covered. It is therefore not possible for us to join these two requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16201	Mr Linder spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16223	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! On the subject of fire doctors, I can very well follow the argument made by Dr. Grünewald, because I believe we should really consider here in Parliament whether we should regulate certain things more freely, more easily, and on the other hand, I know from my community how difficult it is to get doctors who are not in the community on reasonable investigation dates for the entire fire brigade team. If you have a retired doctor who likes to continue this, I think the fire brigade itself will be able to decide whether this doctor is still fit, whether he has the necessary equipment or not. That is why we should open up this possibility of leaving the decision to the local authorities, the local firearms. If there is someone who wants to do this voluntarily, yes, for God's sake, then let us let him do it and let him work voluntarily and we do not prevent him from working for the public by law, voluntarily for the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16259	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. No final word was requested by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 967 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 968 of the supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask for a corresponding sign again. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:37:11]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 175/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the establishment of psychotherapist teaching (969 d.b.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 176/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the field of psychotherapy (970 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16333	We shall now proceed to points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16361	Madam President. Minister! High house! Psychotherapy is a very serious and extensive topic. Today, mentally ill people in Austria are in any case disadvantaged. Whoever breaks a leg can expect in Austria today to be supplied as best as possible and financially unfavourable in any way. You can't say that for psychologically ill. Those who suffer psychologically are disadvantaged by our public health, although long-term damage caused by non-treatment causes enormous economic damage. Today, psychotherapy is a little stepchild in the health landscape in perception, both in politics and in society. I've been thinking about why this is actually so. We now have a psychotherapy law for 20 years, and today, in my opinion, psychotherapy is operated by an indefinable and inconceivable group of handlers. This is due to the fact that the admission criteria for training are quite wide. That is to say, today the professor of Psychiatry on the one hand and the housewife with life experience on the other hand can have the same access to education and subsequently finally to therapy. If we continue to think – and I believe that this is far too far-reaching in the possibility of admission to training – we should actually look at the EU standard on how this is regulated at European level. In addition, there is an unmistakable number of different psychotherapy treatments. I wrote out a little bit. There are 21 psychotherapist methods, 35 training directions, five currents – from deep psychology to psychoanalytic, humanistic, and systematic orientation to behavioral therapy – and many others as well. I believe that this whole of the Babylonian language and voice confusion is also the cause of the scepticism of the health insurance companies for the granting of an overall contract for psychotherapy. That is, a psychotherapy law, as it is currently, belongs to raised and evaluated at EU level for quality assurance reasons. There is no doubt that today a life can be saved with psychotherapy. We all know the statistics on suicide among young people. And if that is the case – and I am convinced that it is – that psychotherapy can really save life, all costs are justified. That is, Mr Minister, the demand we make is that you ensure funding, that you have to ensure, and at the same time, a great "and" with a call mark, make an evaluation of the quality and lift the Psychotherapy Act to EU level in order to ensure that the people in Austria have the best quality in the treatment of mental damage.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16415	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16436	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! On item 18, motion 175/A(E) – this request for the establishment of psychotherapist teaching practices – I would like to point out that, in accordance with the Psychotherapy Act, a psychotherapeutic training according to § 6 para. 2 in the context of psychotherapeutic teaching practices is already possible under applicable law. Recently, for your information, such a one has been opened in Vienna. That is why our group rejects this request. With regard to item 19, motion for a resolution 176/A(E) on the improvement of the psychiatry, I would like to say that: There is already a so-called cost-subsidisation system, according to which patients registered psychotherapist had to take advantage of a benefit and the payment was made which can submit payment. Then they'll get a grant. In addition, in connection with the demand for an overall contract, I can say that there must be at least two negotiating partners in an overall contract that agree to a contract and that this is precisely the question of contracts in the field of self-management. The Federal Minister cannot be asked to intervene in the autonomy of self-government. That is why this request is rejected by our group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16473	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16494	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! One has been talking about a two-class medicine for decades. If I look at the situation of mental illness, I mean, it's the three-class medicine. It is evident that in the field of mental illness there exists a proven – and of best studies, including the ÖBIG – under-supply. There are waiting lists for outpatient treatments of half a year and above, for stationarys partly longer. Extreme is the situation in the area of child and youth psychotherapy and psychiatry. There is not even one third of the necessary treatments, and two thirds of patients are not available for treatment. It's unbearable! It is true what Mr Csörgits says that health insurance companies have contracts, but many contracts are up to a certain amount of time, up to a certain amount of money. When it's out, there's nothing left. Imagine such a situation in physical diseases! Someone breaks the leg, another needs kidney replacement therapy, so a dialysis, a fourth has a heart attack, it's September, and you say: Do it next year! – That would be unthinkable, a cry went through the whole Republic! In the case of psychologically ill, the many responsible seems either to be sausaged or they do not see themselves able to change the situation but need to be changed. We have experienced and developed data from the Ministry with a group of pediatricians. It can be seen that in Germany the threefold number of children and adults is a full – not only “subsidized”, a full! – Psychotherapy without private payments is given up to an hour of 300 hours. This is unthinkable in Austria. In Austria there is the usual, one of the federal differences: In Vorarlberg is spent relatively much on children, adolescents and adults in psychotherapy in Austria, in Vienna the least – absolutely natural due to the size of Vienna. It can't be that Germany is financing the threefold of Austria in psychotherapy per youth, and it's not smart either. Then you hear: There is a teaching practice in Vienna, and that is also contained in the law, and that is why we have nothing to do now! I know many laws where something inside it is, but it has not been implemented. That's no reason to do nothing, on the contrary: Good psychotherapists, like good doctors, also need to experience the patient – supervided. A financing rail must be found for this purpose. The follow-up costs are enormous. The second most common cause of disability is mental illness. It is one of the most common causes of job failures, i.e. illness. I think children are diagnosed too late, too late. They often fail in school and later are unemployed. This also means economic damage. If you already have socially only moderate antennas, you should use the economic ones. Then there would be a need for action as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16549	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16571	Madam President. Federal Minister! In principle, I should like to add the following to Mr Groenewald's speech: I too believe that there is a real need for action. In principle, it is also not wrong to think about the training of psychotherapists, to make proposals for improvement and to look for ideas of innovation. However, I do not think that the concept of teaching practices, as the FPÖ suggests. I'll tell you why. On the other hand, there are several reasons. In my opinion, the most important thing is the fact that, in the case of post-FPÖ, emerging psychotherapists who are still in teaching are to deal with patients who have deep-seated mental problems alone or without professional qualifications. I think that for both sides, both for patients as well as for emerging psychotherapists, this can be a danger potential that we should not suspend both. Transferring to medical studies would also mean, for example, that medical students may treat patients or may even be able to operate on patients, which – I believe – does not create a good feeling when you think of being affected once. The second point I would like to address is precisely in times like this, that you should also consider very well what you are investing in. In any case, there is a need for convincing financing concepts. Teaching practices, as suggested by the FPÖ, seem very expensive to me. The question is: In your opinion, how should this be paid? That would have to be discussed anyway. FPÖ also demands that psychotherapy be regulated as a whole. I would like to resist the existing association solutions already available at national level. This created a very good and functioning system. At national level, each year the study quotas of psychotherapists are increased by 30 percent. I think that is a lot and is enough. For the reasons set out above, we will not vote in favour of the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16611	The next speaker is Mr Deputies List. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16634	Madam President. Minister of Health! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! At the beginning, a few comments from the BZÖ on psychotherapy. It was shown that there were equally many patients in mental treatment in the home physician as well as in diabetes. This situation is worrying. Ladies and gentlemen, 70,000 people have been mentally ill every year in hospital treatment. In addition, the economic crisis also increases the burn-out rate. People are worried about their jobs. Often they risk their health so as not to lose the job. Depressions accumulate, the threat of suicide is increasing overall in this area. This is a dramatic development that cries for immediate action. Nevertheless, the main association sees no need to act in the field of psychotherapy. You, Mr. Federal Minister, are also on the brake here. You are therefore a braker because an improvement in psychotherapeutic care has been established in your government program. Mrs Fuhrmann obviously does not know the government programme of her own party, and also the Federal Minister for Health has not given up the content of his programme. We demand from the BZÖ and claim that after two years of inactivity it is necessary to significantly expand psychotherapeutic care. We from the BZÖ support all efforts to upgrade psychotherapy in Austria – in concrete terms the two requests of the liberal colleagues. Our goal must be to see mental diseases already in the early stages in order to be able to treat them consistently. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16675	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16696	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question: How does health care deal with psychotherapy?, I would like to point out that last Friday we had a big event where the psychotherapy representatives found that good services are being provided in Austria in the quality of psychotherapy. I can assure you that in Austria, as far as the quality and quantity of psychotherapy is concerned, good benefits are being provided and social security has greatly increased expenditure on psychotherapy over the last ten years. I am right to say that the needs in the regional situation are often different. In the urban area, the supply is generally better, and in some rural areas, action needs to be taken. I have made it very clear that we need a home of health, that we must find these psychotherapy activities in rural areas too. I would like to say once again: The costs of psychotherapy have been greatly increased in all health insurance institutions. They've been since then. Year 2000 of € 30 million almost doubled. That is, the benefits will exist. We will also need to expand services in the field of psychology. There's a need for action. I also say very loud and clear that we are also taking measures in connection with activities for child health. We have clearly included the question of improving the care of children and young people in the child health dialogue. There are also measures being taken by our side. This is important and should also take place in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16738	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 969 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 970 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:55:36]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (901 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act, the Post Employment Constitution Act and the Land Labor Act 1984 (975 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16794	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kickl is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16821	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are dealing with the first item on the agenda on the agenda, which we are discussing from the outcome of the Committee's debate, I would like to say something basic about the Committee on Social Affairs and the agendas and how to deal with the items on the agenda, because I think that is not quite essential. On the one hand, we are faced with the situation that the government, in the form of government documents, hardly brings anything reasonable or anything essential. I do not want to underestimate what we decide today or what will be decided against our votes, but it is relatively poor for such an essential committee. On the other hand, we have a wide range of opposition requests, where we make it easy for you anyway, because we – and all opposition parties – are accusing requests on the agenda, which are resumptions. That means, these are things that have been postponed by you, where you said: We need to reassess this a little bit more carefully, so we need to look at it! . We then put these things back on the agenda, with the result that they will be postponed again. This seems to continue until the famous Sankt-Nimmerleins day. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: To a large extent, what is happening in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is a reluctance to act. But this has nothing to do with the fact that there is actually work in the interests of the Austrian population. I am not aware of the fact that the opposition is to make proposals on the part of the government parties over and over again. The proposals are in the form of our requests in these committees. I am saving this now because the speaking time is not enough, but I could read out eight requests from the Committee's last meeting alone, all of which have been postponed. I understand that you have a certain fear in the thirst of the government boards that it is so that you will no longer be able to reach the next agenda. This is probably the background for you to delay so that these things will then land back there to continue to be postponed. - Well, that's the one point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To amend the Constitutional Labour Act, ladies and gentlemen: What you bring us here is in large parts a belly shop – a belly shop of various adaptations, of different smoothings, of various adaptations that are useful and necessary in large parts – I do not dispute at all – for example, the question of adapting the active and passive voting right at the works council level to the normal regulations of other legal entities. I now assume that the Works Council is no more important than the head of state that the Works Council is no more important than a national council member and that the Works Council is no more important than a countryman. As a result, it is also useful that we reduce the active electoral age there to 16 years and that this imbalance is now balanced with all the added importance of works councils in favour of the works councils. That makes sense. There are also other points that I do not dispute. One essential point – and this is for us a lack which does not make it possible for us to agree to this law as a whole – is that in a single point of this whole history you do nothing but undermine the position of the works council and thus the position of workers in all positive measures in an essential area. You do so by subtunneling the need for operating agreements with so-called target agreement systems with performance and success-related charges. That's an important point. What is behind this complicated sounding formulation? – This is nothing but the premium for building savings accounts that someone who is employed in a bank gets. That's nothing but what someone's taking on commissions when he's making a certain number of insurances. In other words, with this law you go into an area of which we know exactly that in trade, in banks and in insurance companies the number of Workers who have a relatively small fixed wage share but a relatively large benefit-dependent component are getting bigger and bigger. [[President Neugebauer is taking over again.]] These people are now abandoned by you because with this change of law you simply abandon the necessary operating agreement and instead make an optional arrangement. This means nothing more than the fact that the company is now no longer looking for a scheme for all its employees, but it is now easy to do so and it is personal with the individual employee. There is, of course, a great danger that one will be played against the other, and below the line, social reduction will come out. – That is why we cannot agree to this. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, quite honestly, I wonder what devil you are riding from SPÖ in this regard. Since I am looking for an answer to the question of how Mr Chancellor Faymann would like to finance the bank levy he does not want to overwhelm the customers, I have now found one of the starting points: It is obvious that employees are to pay for what is to come from the bank via lower fees and social dumping. – This is at least a step in this direction that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16902	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e16924	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by saying that the Austrian Labour Constitution Act gives the Works Councils a good tool, which is the balance of interests between employees and employers. Of the participation rights of the Works Council in Austria, trade unions in many other countries can only dream. It is also very good that these rights of participation and co-determination are adapted and improved with the present government template of time. In particular, I would like to address a number of points which are particularly important to me and which, in my opinion, are crucial. On the one hand, this government template is about adapting to a directive of the European Union. It is true that there are more and more companies, multinational corporations that operate not only in Austria, but also in other European countries. There has already been the possibility to choose, determine and use a European Works Council. Now, with this government proposal, there are very important improvements in this area, some of which I would like to mention. The special negotiating body – which is an employee representative body negotiating with the employer’s side on the establishment of a European Works Council – and the European Works Council will be more closely composed in accordance with the principle of proportionality in the future. A second very important point concerns the principles of consultation and information that are specified. The aim of this clarification is to improve the effectiveness and implementation of the social dialogue, thereby simply improving the rights of participation and co-determination within the meaning of workers in this area. In this context, I also think it is important that, in the event of violations of the rights of the European Works Council, an administrative penalty is also foreseen. In addition, this innovation will help clarify the rights of the local works council in a farm in Austria and what are the rights and opportunities that a European Works Council assumes – that is, those areas that are cross-border. If you have listened to me, you will probably have found that is a very difficult matter for those who do not know exactly what work law is. This also means, of course, that works councils often face very big challenges. In future, it will also be ensured that a training claim for European works councils is established. This is important, especially in the context of international activities of interest groups. In the second part of my remarks, let me talk about those areas and put a very special emphasis on the work of the Works Council in Austria in the enterprises. There are improvements in the choice of the Youth Trust Council as regards the age limit. This will be referred to by my colleagues. It is very important and crucial – and this finally implemented a nearly decades-long demand of the trade union movement – that the time limit for the challenge of terminations in court by the employee or by the employee has been extended from one week to two weeks. That really takes time. This is very important and crucial and has a great implementation in this law. It is equally important and crucial that an improvement has also been achieved in the context of economic information and the advisory law of the Works Council. What does that mean? – If there is an economic restructuring in a holding, a change in the structure of a company, it was already necessary for the farmer to inform the works council, but the law only states that the wording “as far as possible”. That was a so-called rubber paragraph. This has now been much more precisely defined, which means the possibility for the Works Council to be actually used in time. The Works Council shall also have sufficient time to inform accordingly and also to deliver an opinion. I believe that this is one of the most important and crucial points that have been reached in this novel. I would particularly like to thank Mr Hundstorfer, but also the social partners, for having achieved these important points. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me now turn to § 96 para. 1 Z 4 – these are business agreements. My previous speaker has already found critical words. I would like to clarify this once again. In connection with § 96 para. 1 Z 4 there will be a change, yes. The issue is that the introduction of other performance and success-related premiums and payments in the event of certain conditions in the future is no longer subject to voluntary participation, as is already the case under current law. In the case of voluntary business agreements, it is true that the employer can not only choose the path of a business agreement but can also reach agreement in individual service contracts. However, I would like to point out that: Accord-like premium and remuneration systems remain within the scope of the enforceable operating agreements. If there is a risk of health to an extent such as is often the case in the case of chord work, this form shall continue to be subject to the enforceable operating agreement. Only where these dangers do not exist will the introduction of those performance-related premiums and payments be possible in the future also through a voluntary operating agreement. I should also like to say the following: I am convinced that where it turns out that some kind of uncertainty exists, the trade unions will be very likely to negotiate this in the form of collective agreements. It is also important to me that the other instruments relating to enforceable business agreements and co-determination rights such as the introduction of disciplinary regulations, the introduction of staff questionnaires or the introduction of control measures are still existing and not affected by this new law. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the majority of the points of this change in the Constitutional Labour Act are good, important prerequisites to give the Works Council more tools. Finally, allow me to thank the many thousands of works councils in Austria for their excellent work. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17021	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17042	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the government template certainly contains important points, which in our view can also be welcomed. Mrs Csörgits has presented the positive in detail. However, as I have already pointed out in the Committee, the changes in § 96 are a very serious problem for us. What's this about? – Mr Kickl has already tried to explain this a little. The issue is that a very transparent system for the design of such target agreements, which also have financial consequences, will be completely destroyed. A transparent system is being destroyed, which is a consequence of the fact that workers can be put much more under pressure in individual discussions and negotiations than has been the case so far. That makes this deletion possible. I would like to become a little more concrete and, so to speak, look at other contexts: Such systems certainly mean that women are even more disadvantaged in pay. Whenever pay systems are opaque, this results in women earning less than men. First point. Second point: Such a system – fighting everyone for the next premium – is guaranteed to lead to a worse and worse operating climate. And above all, third point: There will also be a lot of people who are no longer able to participate in this system, who will then pursue their target agreement from month to month, until they are in the burnout. If you, Mrs Csörgits, are saying that the scheme does not apply if there is a risk of health, then you know very well that burn-out is not a recognised occupational disease and that this scheme must be used to fear an increase in the number of burn-out cases. – All these are the consequences of this novel. I am really unscrupulous – and now, at the same time, I am glad that Minister Hundstorfer has yet to come, because: In the Committee, he explained to us that we have a problem with the exhaustion disease Burn-out and that countermeasures need to be put in place. And then let us have a template that will have exactly the opposite to the result! This template with the amendment of § 96 is a “burn-out funding law”, and this is simply totally unacceptable for us Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this debate, I also find the role of Mr Katzian, who unfortunately is not present. A few days ago, the Federal Forum of the GPA unanimously decided on a request that it should not make this change in the present form and that the representatives of the GPA should do everything possible to prevent it from happening here. – And where is Mr Katzian now? He is not here when it comes to important workers' and employees' issues! He's not in position. I find this very disappointing. I have announced in the Committee that there will be a separate vote on these points and that we will have the opportunity to say, well, we will find these parts of the law in order, but we are clearly opposed to a law that will further strengthen the pressure on workers, promote burn-out and further promote the inequality of income between women and men. Let us look at who will take advantage of the opportunity of this separate vote. – Mr Katzian will unfortunately not be. Ladies and gentlemen, if I am disappointed about your behavior here, it can be yours. But please also think of the thousands of works councils and works councils fighting out there every day, and think of the hundreds of thousands of people who already suffer massively from the pressure and stress at work! Remember that in your vote! I really hope that there are at least a few brave ones among you who still know why they have gone into politics, and therefore will not give their approval to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17113	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17134	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) So, of course, one can want to force politics, as you just did, Mrs Schatz. But everyone will vote according to his conscience – and hopefully he will not only vote in a national vote, but always. I too will do this, and I also know why, especially since I have been a works councillor and working chamber vice-president myself for many years and am still employee representatives in my party today. I therefore agree with the amendment to § 96, because I would also have a little concern about what you have been talking about, because I still believe that we can assume that the legal provision, as it is now available, also allows many opportunities that are positive for the worker, and I see these concerns that you see, not that the pressure that is anyway there is now an additional increase and that additional occupational diseases arise through this pressure. - I don't have these fears. Although Mr Kickl has this law and the fact that the opposition will not be heard, he regrets – that may also have its reason – but he has also seen some good in it. The implementation of the directive, which we have until 5. There is no doubt that many improvements must have been completed on June. They have already been referred to, think of the reduction of the passive electoral age for the Works Council from 19 to 18 years or of the Youth Trust Council. These are all measures that will, of course, help to improve dialogue between workers and employers' representatives. The possibility to conclude an optional operating agreement on the introduction of performance and success-related premiums and payments is now provided as a voluntary business agreement, and where the special protection mechanisms are really to work, these special interests are guaranteed even now. [[Abg. May. Honey: Why? Why do you change that?]] It was an agreement between the social partners, and it may not have been easy for the trade union movement or the trade union representatives to take this into account, but it is, as always in the case of social dialogues, a compromise – a compromise which I cannot easily but can also give my approval, because, in general, there are really many improvements in this law. I believe that we should also, in deciding on this legal provision, see the well-being, the overall well-being of workers in the foreground and give at least our approval to this proposal with this drops of advertising. In any case, we will do so – even if we vote naturally.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17171	Mr Hundstorfer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry I came a few minutes late. – I was at the Austrian Center and underestimated Vienna evening traffic a little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kickl.]] [[Call the Greens:Open!]] [[Abg. Doppler: Only 30!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:City-Tout!]] It has already been said by Mrs Csörgits many things that I do not need to repeat. Mr Maij-Weggen has also done a lot of work now. In the draft law, I believe, there are points which are very important to improve the position of the Works Council, and there are also points which are different from that which represent the whole position. I do not, however, avoid your criticism at all. I disagree with what you have said, Madam honourable Member, - I have not heard Mr Kickl's speech, but I assume that it was similar to what has already been said in the committee - that I am of course responsible to works councillors and also to the people who are concerned. I stand to our responsibility that it cannot be about exploiting, if you can say so, and opening the arbitrary door and gate. Point one: We have very good rights of participation, which are divided into an absolute veto, in an agreement by means of mediation or voluntaryness. We also have a knowledge of the 2008 Supreme Court, where we have acquired a certain double track record. Since this recognition of the Supreme Court, the participation in voluntary participation has been voluntary, and the targeting premium has been for approval. For a long time now, we can philosophise about this: What is the target-achievement premium? What is profit participation? We have therefore gone on to propose the revision here because, on the one hand, there is nothing change in the other co-determination rights of the works councils and, on the other hand, we believe that all pay systems, where the health risk can be apparent, should continue to be subject to absolute veto law. Benefits for activities where there is a risk of burn-out are therefore still subject to mandatory co-determination. Remuneration systems based on staff evaluation must also be agreed with the Works Council, whereby the approval of the Works Council may be enforced by court. That is to say, in the result, very little changes in the core functions of the co-determination of the works council. A detail: Certain premium schemes, which may not be dangerous to health, which may not be personalised, will now become voluntary. I believe that this interpretation makes it very possible for works councils to continue to have the opportunity to do so in the interests of those for whom they work. I mean, it is important, in particular, that something where there is a health risk or a personal assessment, can not automatically be implemented through the veto of the Works Council, or one agrees. I think it is possible, because of this innovation, to continue to make practical life very active on the one hand. And I believe that there is a signal here, where we have also demonstrated in the social partners: Yes, there are improvements, there are serious improvements. There is also an interpretation there or there, which may at first glance be a deterioration, but if you look at it twice, you can expect that it is not in truth at all, but that we have also interpreted a certain legal status more precisely. In this sense, I would like to ask you to agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17255	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17276	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This amendment of the Labour Constitution Act makes the co-determination In the event of a massive restriction on the right of establishment of the works council in the event of performance-related remuneration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of performance and success-related remuneration, such as premiums, the Works Council is now obliged to agree. And exactly this part is to be removed from the law. Dear friends! That's something we don't carry! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] That's exactly what it is, dear friend! Look closely at § 96! There only more accord wages and similar forms of remuneration are recorded. And we can't believe this restriction to the diligent people and to the many careful, committed works councils that don't always have it easy. We will not agree to a law of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17325	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17346	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! So you're supposed to know. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats approves the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. You really don't know whether someone is for it or not. [[Abg. Kickl: With reservation!]] But that's not my problem anyway. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are now talking about an amendment to the Constitutional Labour Act. In the meantime, this law is in 37. Year of life. Many novels have seen it. And I think that today's change or improvement – and I expressly say "improvement" – of the law is well aligned with the previous improvements. The content soon: Overall, as has been said, a quality improvement for workers' rights and participation in establishments where there are works councils. You can become a former works council member. Youth Trust Council can stay longer. The passive right to vote, as has already been said, will be extended to 23 years. A long-standing demand of the trade union youth is fulfilled, at the same time also a point of the government agreement – that has not yet been said – of the current Federal Government. It will also improve and clarify the economic information rights of the works councils, clarify and improve the information requirement of the trader vis-à-vis the works council. However, ladies and gentlemen, it will make clear how important works councils are in working life. It's clear: Where there is no works council, there is no company co-determination of the worker. There are fewer rights for workers where there is no works council, and there are clearly no operating agreements in enterprises without works councils. I would therefore also like to take the opportunity of today's decision-making, in particular, to point out that it is good to have works councils in the company and that it is good for workers to choose works councils as well. Each one of us knows that there are still a number of farms where this choice of works councils has not yet been carried out, and one can only appeal to address this in these establishments at last. The trade unions, of course, support in this area with information and know-how. So message: Choose works councils where there are no works councils yet! However, there is still the extension of the deadline for understanding the works council in the event of planned terminations – and this has already been pointed out – and there is also the extension of the time limit to challenge a termination by the employee. So when it comes to co-determination, questions of balance of interests between employers and employees in the company, not only in the company, but also in European law, then, I believe, today's changes are positive steps towards improving the situation. That is why I think it is very good for my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17383	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17404	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have now heard it, it has become a compromise between the social partners, the legal provisions on the Works Council and the provisions of the Labour Constitution Act, which is now being adapted. Some things have already been overdue, we have already heard: the reduction of the passive electoral age for the Works Council, the increase in the electoral age for the active and passive voting right for the Youth Trust Council and the extension of the appeal period on the part of the employee in the event of termination. - That's one. What now capriculates everything is § 96. The interesting thing here is that this has not been seen negatively in the opinions of the employees' representatives. But works councils, which were very attentive, seem to have alerted all the opposition parties – especially the workers' representatives of the individual political groups; I have also received news on this matter – and have said that the amendment to § 96 is a circumcision of the works council right. I then looked at this carefully and I have to say one thing, Minister of State: In § 96 it is said now as well as before: ‘The following measures of the farmer shall require the approval of the Works Council of their legal effect:... in so far as there is no arrangements by collective agreement or statutes...’ So it concerns, so to speak, only that part where there is no KV. Or? Otherwise everything will remain the same here. That's not the big thing now. But you should leave the church in the village. We are all in favour of the improvements contained in this government proposal, and we have already heard this today. All the political groups in this House are in favour of this. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do you agree?]] – Mr Klubobmann Cap, we will not give this novelle our approval, for the following reason: because there is a minor restriction on the right to work on the one hand, because this will in future try to prevent such an agreement from being reached at the operational level. An operating agreement, as Mr Riepl rightly said, where there is no works council, cannot exist at all. - That's one thing. The other negative is that the deadline for prior consultation of the Works Council has been extended from five days to one week in the event of a planned termination of employees. This is really a peanut. I would have liked this time limit to be extended so that, in case of disputes, we can also reach an extrajudicial agreement – based on the extension of the time-limit for the appeal of workers in the case of employer announcement, which has now been extended from one week to two weeks; I think that is positive, that is all right, because it is rather the possibility of an out-of-court agreement. Mr Federal Minister, I am particularly missing one in this government proposal: In the interests of workers, it would have been useful to bring about a modernisation and flexibility of labour law and a re-codification of labour rights to eliminate the current division of law. The implementation of our long-term demand for a minimum statutory wage of €1 300 from 2007 would also be urgently necessary. I miss that in this government paper. That is why we are going to refuse to accept this government proposal, so we will not agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17441	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17462	Mr President. Minister! For more than a decade, staff representatives, works councils, improvements and changes have been trying to bring about. This has been achieved with this government proposal. This is an overall package that can be described as quite positive. The Youth Trust Council, for example, should be highlighted. With the package we modernise and extend this important right of participation of the young in the establishments, we adapt it to the changed training routes. There are extended lessons, there are double teachings, there are teachings with Matura, and this leads to the completion of the training later. We respond and extend the circle of youth workers to up to 21 years. Therefore, they also have the opportunity to act accordingly in the Youth Trust Council. We also extend the possibility of co-determination of the boys in the works council. They can be elected to the works council as early as 18 years. But the work of the Works Council is also simplified by this innovation. Works Council decisions will be possible in the future, ladies and gentlemen. Especially for large, branched companies – I too am engaged in such an activity – with equally branched works councils, it is a huge relief that this is regulated by this law. More rights will also be granted to works councils when they object to a termination. As mentioned earlier, they can raise their veto against a termination within a week instead of so far only within five days. That too is a serious progress. But it is also very important that we clarify the information rights of the works councils with this bill. From now on, there must be no more mystery. The elected staff representatives must receive in time extensive information on changes in the operation, which has not been the case so far. This is also what we are now dealing with with with this Constitution. The same applies, of course, to companies and employees, ladies and gentlemen, who are active beyond national borders. Such a company is mine, the voestalpine. The economic crisis in particular has shown that problems can occur in foreign headquarters. The case of the source of Austria is unfortunately a very negative example. But by implementing Directive 2009/38/EC, we are building on problems in the future and achieving a clarification of the rights of our thousands of excellent works councils. The establishment of a European Works Council will in future be subject to clear and transparent rules, which will also accompany European associations. Especially in Austria, where the social partners have a very high priority, it must be stressed that the clarification of the principles of consultation and information is very positive and is also taken up by the works councils. No more and no less than the improvement of social dialogue is the objective here, as well as the change and improvement of the labour constitution law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17510	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 901 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Treasure as well as a desire to vote in favour of this. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for a separate vote, taking account of this request for a name-name vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(11) and (12) as amended by the Government template. That is what the honourable Member Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a request for a name-named vote, which has been sufficiently supported. We'll do this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No", which are the pink ones. Only those official ballots may be used. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who vote in favour of Article 1(11) and (12) of the draft law to vote yes, those who vote against to put “No” vote in the mood. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Mrs Lohfeyer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17581	Would anyone else like to vote? – The vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the correspondents. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17624	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 168, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 100, No votes: 68. Article 1(11) and (12) are therefore adopted by a majority. The names of the Members, indicating their voting behaviour, shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Transmitter; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakl Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Chapel, chapel, crest, church gardener, clickovits, cooks, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, cage, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmeilenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm. Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter; Singer, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17797	We shall continue to vote in the votes and will vote first on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government document. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for the draft, I ask you for a sign of approval. – The draft was adopted by a majority and was therefore also adopted at third reading. [[17:50:29]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (936, p._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a German law on employment relations with theatre companies (theater Arbeitsgesetz – TAG) is amended and with which the Holiday Law, the Labour Constitution Act, the Allowance Payment Act and the Labour Peace Act are amended (Theaterpassungsgesetz 2010) (976 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17843	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. Mrs Ablinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17867	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are reforming the Act of Drama from 1922. This was urgently needed. Fortunately, there has also been a unanimous decision in the Committee. I would just like to point out some of the passages in this law, which have been innovated several times since 1922, but in which a number of sexist passages were still hidden. Thus until now, married women were obliged to be employed only in the man’s place of residence as actresses. There was, for example, a special right of termination of actresses when the husband demanded it. There were also entitlements to pay or compensation for redundancies for women who had been prevented by the regular disturbances in the performance of their services due to the female nature. This disorder that is talking about here meant the female menstruation. Such provisions were hidden in it. Mr Franz Marhold of the Board of Directors of the Institute for Labour and Social law has already revealed this a few years ago, and it was useful for various reasons – of course not only for this – to reform this law. Apart from the fact that a number of these sexist nonsenses are no longer in the new theater law, it now also regulates the scope. And again, it also regulates the remuneration of pre-tests, payment payments and the right to holiday. It is also in line with a number of European legal requirements. That is why we are glad that we have now succeeded in deciding on this new government proposal. There has also been a discussion in the Committee on the impact of film actors. To this end, the Minister in the Committee has already announced that there will be talks because they do not fall within this scope. This has been offered and announced. Our group will be pleased to vote in favour of this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17907	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17929	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Theatre Working Time Act is the second part of those social measures we take today in the sense of artists. If you remember, at the last plenary session, we have already decided on two measures which, on the one hand, include the retirement notification for employees, on the other hand, a service agency with regard to social affairs. Both are intended to bring an improvement to artists. Today it's about the Theatre Working Time Act. The basic theme or the meta-level on which it is basically concerned is, of course, the social situation of artists, based on a study that led the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Schmied into the paths and which had the result, which we knew anyway, that the social situation of artists is a very poor one. Right then, When it comes to promoting creative work in our country and supporting those artists we are proud of at the end of the day, because they bring Austria international reputation, it is important to support them. Mr Ablinger has already mentioned a number of points which include this bill. The most important part is certainly the fact that not only artists and actors – that is why the term “play law” – are included in the law, but all those involved in the theatre. From the stage designer via technician, this Theatre Working Time Act is now responsible for everyone. This is certainly the essential change, in addition to the regulation of the right of vacation, after which in future, according to the right of vacation of the ABGB everyone employed at the theatre will receive five weeks of vacation. Retirement periods have also been changed to 36 hours, based on a European legal requirement. I think that these points are also very useful on their own, because they have also been negotiated constructively in the context of the review, the social partners have been involved, and this law ultimately brings a significant improvement to all its changes, including those already recorded in 1922 – and have not seen any change since then. I hope that, in the sense of the social situation of artists, this is not the last measure we will take in the House. In any case, the dialogue must continue. Accordingly, it would also be in our interest to make further measures, further proposals for improvement in the final effect also law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17971	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e17992	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers rightly pointed out that since 1922 nothing has been done and that now this Stage Labour Law, this Theatre Adjustment Act has rightly been amended. But, ladies and gentlemen, in 1922 there was only a handful of film actors, and that has changed exponentially, as you all know. Nevertheless, the actors working in the film are still excluded from this law, because they are said to have quite different working conditions. That's true, of course, they have different working conditions, but they're not like that again. Above all things: If they are different, they are worse – and ultimately labour law would be there to prevent bad working conditions. They do not have a collective contract, which naturally leads to wage dumping, and the preparation for the acting will not pay them. All these are things that do not have to be in the Theatre Labour Law, but over long shooting days, night work, long waiting, heat, cold, dirt and so on, perhaps already! Formal, the film actors are employees, and we all know that this is a farce, that in practice this does not take effect at all, and that the right does not take effect here either. The best example of this is the social security contributions that must be paid by them without ever getting anything out of them. It's clear: Once and for all, if you have a shooting day, A few days of shooting, a turning week or so, you never come to the associated working hours, never to an unemployed person. This is really a neglected professional group, and you, Mr Minister, have gratefully recognized it. They have shown understanding and have invited me to submit this to the Ministry. The date actually came very quickly – hat off, I can really say, really great! I am fully committed, and I hope that after this date there will be more, just with the group of those concerned. We have made it up with Mr Neubauer, and thank you again for that. I think this theater adaptation law is good. We agree. But we also create good conditions for the film for good work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18038	Mr Hundstorfer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18059	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all of you for the unanimous adoption of the decision-making paper. And what we are trying to develop with the filmmakers has already been announced by Mr Zinggl. On the one hand, we are trying not only to continue with Mr Zinggl in the matter, but also, of course, with those concerned. There were meetings in these one and a half years during which we met with artists, initiated by the Minister of Education. There is also, of course, a joint dialogue with representatives from the film sector. That means that it is again a stage of artistic professions positively completed. But the caravan continues: We will now see what we can shape accordingly for the film. There is not only labour law, but also the question of how to deal with various insurance periods in the AMS area, and, and, and. That means that even this matter is a little more complicated than usual. I would like to thank you once again for your unanimity.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18092	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18114	Mr President. Federal Minister! They have already preceded it and have thanked themselves for the unanimous approval, which also comes from the BZÖ. I think if a law from 1922 to today has not been adapted, has not been modernised, it is high time to do something. We agree that the rights and obligations of actors are adapted to modern circumstances. The claims in the field of work prevention – in case of sample obligations and so on – have already been addressed by my previous speakers. I think it is also important to further clarify and adapt matters in the next step, especially the rights of film-makers. That's what you've got, too. ==References== Therefore, there is agreement by the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18146	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18167	Mr President. Minister! High house! To conclude this very successful point, I would also like to point out that the Government Convention states that an interministerial working group brings improvements in the field of artists. We have the second point here today under the Artists' Social Insurance Structure Act – KSV-SG, which has been worked out, We have the modernisation in this area in the Theatre Labor Act. In other words, there is a labour contract law for workers in the theatre, regardless of the extent of employment. There are now also legal regulations on pre-tests, there are rules on leave. And above all: The claim is guaranteed at the beginning of the stage work relationship. As Minister Hundstorfer has previously assured here, there are discussions and other building blocks for us to assure artists in our country that we see them as a very important contribution, that we not only rely on the historical achievements in the arts and culture field, but also on the present art and culture creators, we have a very vigilant eye so that they are socially protected. Finally, I would like to stress that these discussions are being continued, in a proven way, in an interministerial working group where various ministries are working successfully – for people working in the arts and culture sector in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18205	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 936 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you agree in third reading, I ask you for your sign. – That is unanimously decided. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. [[18:04:41]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 112/A by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on a Federal Act with which the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, BGBl. No. 609/1977, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 82/2008, amended (977, e.g.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 132/A by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on a Federal Law establishing the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (AIVG), BGBl. No. 609/1977, amended (978 e.g.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on extending the transitional periods for opening the Austrian labour market for new EU Member States (979 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18290	We shall now proceed to items 22 to 24 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kickl was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18317	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Because previous suggestions from the SPÖ ranks have come in the direction of the liberals, I can only remember that there have been times when within the SPÖ – keyword: Gusenbauer – the trade unionists, so to speak, as a punishment for highly risky forms of indictment – keyword: “Caribbean” – have been banished from this house. These times are over. In the meantime, the high trade unionists are again in the ranks of the SPÖ Group. One has even found the way to the ministerial bank. However, in the real political work on the substance, one does not have the impression that this would have improved something for Austrian workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: What happened to your union?! She broke up!]] I can tell you from the Freedom Party – as I have announced to you the firm resistance as regards this budget of injustices – also in another very essential matter, the Of course, you would prefer to come under the carpet, announce determined resistance: This is the determined resistance to the removal of protection provisions for the domestic labour market by 1. May next year. This has to be broken on the tongue: that the SPÖ – I particularly appeal to the SPÖ! ==References== May, the day of work, desecrated by such a measure. Who would have thought that a few years ago?- Oh, my God! In the meantime, however, you are already so hostageish in the European Union that you are already participating, without even having to criticise outside at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, what you are doing in terms of opening up the labour market is irresponsible. It is therefore irresponsible – just as irresponsible as the billions you are pumping to Greece, to Ireland, perhaps also to Portugal to name a few blocks of this negative domino – because these things are related. They make the same elementary errors everywhere: They push things together into a system that does not belong to a common system. We have already seen it in the currencies. If you put economies with a completely different power into a monetary union, then what we have now experienced in Greece, what we are going to experience in Ireland and what we are going to experience in future – always to the detriment of the Austrian population! If you do the same in the field of the labour market, that is to say, completely different systems in terms of remuneration for social security, in a large labour market – and cynically under the guise of a so-called European social union – then the next system that creates injustice will come out, ladies and gentlemen. And we cannot give this our consent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: I was not surprised at the fact that, in the committee, Mr Bartenstein almost sang praises from the ÖVP that it was at last so far that these provisions of protection are now being removed, after these – I say, almost annoying – shifts were made, to which we first went through in this House, and only in 2011 the opening took place and did not happen before. At SPÖ I place at least the remains of a bad conscience. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that at least one person or another in the SPÖ, who is still in charge of being employee representatives, knows that in Austria we do not have enough labour, but too few jobs. This is a fundamental difference! It is precisely this difference to us; On the other hand, they are simply trying to wipe it out, although only and alone a look at the unemployment statistics, for example in Vienna, would suffice to show that they actually do. But you are hostageed by this European Union. There are still a few points where, I think, you know secretly that we are right. There are, for example, these regulations which you now announce as major protection measures against social reduction and wage dumping in connection with the removal of the protection provisions. They say: We introduce a law against social dumping, and anyone who pays under the level of the collective contract will be punished! – Yes, what is useful if the collective contract wages in Austria, as low as they are, have a level that is still far above that of the minimum wages of those countries that are in commuting with us and for all the barriers to entry to the labour market on 1st. May Next Year Drop Away?- Oh, my God! I have made the effort and looked into it – for you, Mr Minister, for the friends of the Socialist Group – as it is there with the minimum wages. Hungary: Minimum wage 256,99 €, Poland: Minimum wage 317,58 €, Slovakia: Minimum wage 307,7 €, Czech Republic: Minimum wage 311,39 €. These are the minimum wages there, and we are currently talking about the introduction of a minimum wage of €1 300. Don't you see this difference? Remember that these countries are in direct contact with us! Do you not believe that if day- and weekly commuters from these countries have unanticipated opportunities to go to our labour market to create an incentive for the Austrians? I do not want to go so far as to compare this level of minimum wages with the claims for minimum insurance in Austria. You should do that once, too! If you have seen the first results in terms of minimum security, I agree. Now we only have them in a few federal states, but it already shows the following picture: First of all, the number is much higher than expected, and second of all shows up – you hear and marvel! – that more than 70 percent of those taking advantage of the minimum guarantee have a migration background. I am already waiting for the Minister to tell us now that these are the Germans who have a migration background and apply for minimum security. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I don't think that's true, ladies and gentlemen. I also do not think that this development will tear off if you do not do what is the only sensible way to deal with the question of transitional periods for the labour market: to extend them – to a point where there is a rather balanced level! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Please do not make the same mistakes in the field of labour market, which you have made in the field of monetary union, which we now face. Be smart before you go back!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18409	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18430	Ladies and gentlemen! In the short time available to me, I would just like to address request 132/A, in which it is a matter of introducing a general loss of entitlement to unemployment benefit for asylum seekers. I have to say quite honestly: I do not understand this request at all, because, as you know very well, asylum seekers do not have a right of residence in Austria at all after the death penalty has been imposed, and therefore the labour market is no longer available, which is the basic condition for the payment of unemployment benefit. So this is an essential condition. In practice, it looks like that – we know it very well; it is always just a matter of being startled by you – that an asylum-seeker after the punishment of the criminal is anyway postponed or at least a residence ban is imposed, which is why the question of a service relationship usually no longer arises at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Only in a few exceptional cases, if, for example, an asylum seekers cannot be postponed for legal reasons or international obligations such as the Convention on Human Rights, can a service be provided. And it would be unacceptable – you have to say that – to say domestics during detention: You have to go to work, and you don't have to do that in the case of asylum seekers, so take them out of it. Similarly, it would not be acceptable to keep unemployment insurance contributions in the case of domestic detainees and to others who, because of their employment in prison, also receive the full remuneration to leave it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] These contributions, which are provided there, are acquired insurance claims – you know that very well – and constitute a property right. One can only then under special conditions, e.g. in the absence of residence that this may be limited. I believe that the social security which is linked to the payment of the unemployment insurance contribution is very, very important, because it also has the purpose of resocialising those who are released and thus preventing further crimes. That was also the reason why we did not agree to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18494	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18515	Mr President. Federal Minister! That was a funny statement from Mr Spindelberger, who, I think, is really far away from reality, because to say that it would not be, is really funny. – The problem for you is: The Federal Minister admitted this to the Committee itself. Now I would like to bring to mind the problem we have in Innsbruck to all the rulers here in the hall. The last example of the international sighting in Innsbruck was the following: ==References== In January 2009, three Moroccan asylum seekers abused a 17-year-old girl for ten hours. One of these three gentlemen is now on foot. That alone is enough for me if the Federal Minister says that 98 asylum seekers who have been released receive unemployment benefits. Please, my lords, we must act right away! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: I did not talk about “punity”, I talked about asylum seekers!]] – You yourself said that asylum seekers were released from prison. That's just facts! If the asylum officer approaches me from the country of Tyrol, as we have already discussed this often: The Moroccans in Tyrol have to be relocated, fly from Innsbruck to Vienna, and if the rulers in Vienna have to go to the toilet, they immediately submit an asylum application in Vienna, which happened several times in 2010. And then everything starts from the beginning: People then immediately get the same basis of life. – I think we should think about it urgently! I don't want to argue now if that's 90, 95 or five. It is about the fact that someone who comes to Austria and needs asylum and protection, of course, has to get this; but someone who does not comply with our host rules, who is going to be criminal, is simply to be postponed, there is no If and But! That's why you don't have a problem if you agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18550	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18571	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I quote literally from the Liberals' motion for a resolution, which was the basis for Mr Kickl's speech: ‘The free movement of workers is a fundamental right allowing nationals of an EU Member State to work in another EU Member State under the same conditions as the citizens of the Member State concerned.’ A fundamental right to work, Mr Kickl. That means that it is not a jubilation that you have not heard from me, but it is about loyalty to the contract and the realistic assessment of what is useful and possible, Mr Kickl. Don't talk about a fundamental right and then say, let's hurt it, but Pacta sunt servanda, it was even said by the liberals in the committee, and that's what it's all about now – after at least seven years of transition! And apart from this subject of fidelity, which has been a topic for the liberals at some point – unfortunately no longer God – we appreciate the possibilities and the real constitution of the Austrian labour market, Mr. Kickl! You may lack the information because you do not have much to do with working life in itself, but the labour market in this country is in good shape. In Austria, we have the lowest unemployment rate in all of Europe. And here you imagine a Minister of Labour who is trying to argue in Brussels: Seven years are now probably over, but we would still like to extend the transitional period, but we would still like to see Czech, Hungarian and other workers restricted in this fundamental right of the European Treaty! – I don't think so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another topic that I believe is worthy of improvement or even improvement: They say the minimum wages in the Czech Republic or Hungary, these are the standards that apply in Austria – certainly not! – But, you said that, anyway, it was... – I have listened to you without interrupting you, now you also listen once, even though you may find it physically and psychologically difficult! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl: I didn't say that...]] [[New calls from the Abg. Kickl.]] Please note that employees in Austria are of course subject to our minimum wage conditions! That means: What is meant here is collectively contractually, that is to be paid. When workers and employers as social partners introduce and implement further measures against social dumping in these months, this is all the better, because no responsible Austrian employer wants social or wage dumping. This distorts competition and is not in the interests of workers. That's why nobody wants it – we don't want it at first! That means: What you want here is neither possible nor meaningful. They try to move populist moods here, which may be subversive too. But this is not, as has been said, in the sense of Austrian workers and is not justified at all in view of the excellent development of the Austrian labour market in recent months.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18630	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18651	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, you claim, therefore, that a contract such as that of the 30th century, On April 1, the opening of the labour market will be completed. It is not possible to open it in May, because it would break the contract. I'll tell you: They are permanently breaking promises in this country. The budget shows it! They are currently confronted with the dispute that the country arlberg It wants to complain because the budget simply contradicts everything that would correspond to a socially just scheme in Austria at all. You are facing the situation that the Council of Seniors, your own people, Dr. Khol and Mr. Karl Blecha, want to complain now because the situation of pensioners seems unconstitutional. And you're telling us here that we have contracts to keep?- Oh, my God! At this very moment, the Treaties with the Lisbon Treaty are being broken by the extension of the number of Members to the European Parliament. Well, I am excited, ladies and gentlemen, whether what these gentlemen have promised us will happen. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper page up to date]] You will still be able to remember this impotent listing, because this has led to new elections in this country, to this listing, in which these two gentlemen, today's Chancellor Faymann and then Chancellor Gusenbauer, have told us the following: The Austrian labour market, which is now developing positively again, must be protected by transitional periods! Federal Minister! Stay protected! You don't want to hear that anymore! It also said: On the basis of this information, you want to work for it when the Treaties are amended at European level, that you promise the Austrian people that there will be a referendum. I am pleased to see whether, at this break in the Treaty, which is now taking place and which in Ireland, Holland, leads to popular elections in Belgium, Mr Faymann is ready to deliver the Austrian people to this promise. I'm telling you today, hic et nunc: He's not going to do it, he's gonna fall in this case too! Then: He fell by the hackler rule, and he also fell by the invalidity pension. This is especially absurd, Mr Federal Minister: that only the rich in this country can now afford to enter the disability pension at all because you have raised the premiums so high that a normal citizen can no longer afford it if he thinks he is going to do it at all. And I'll tell you something, too. If you yourself talk about 25 000 people coming to Austria after this opening, it is clear: These 25 000 will, of course, take away 25 000 Austrians. But you're saying that's not a problem for you. I quote from a daily newspaper, from the “Kronen Zeitung”, where you say that this is not a problem for you. You will, Mr Minister, have to explain to these 25 000 Austrians how you meant it. This is a provocation, which is an ignorance and an arrogance, as I have rarely heard it from a social democrat, and also from a trade unionist, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is grotesk: a trade union in Austria offers jobs to foreigners and takes jobs away from the Austrians – and it is still proud of that! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reason why the surveys, as you are published in the “Kurier” today, look as they just look. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I promised you a year ago, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: You won't believe it goes even deeper! And it's still going on. deeper – and you will cash the waxes for your non-social policy that you have launched here at the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18760	Next speaker: Federal Minister Hundstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e18782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer, do not overwhelm yourself in populism! Read the listing carefully, then you also know when the listing was made. After that, a letter was written that had not yet been gone at the time of the listing. Otherwise, we would not even have the transitional periods we now have. [[Abg. Neubauer: Promise and broken!]] When you were in the government, you didn't care about the transitional periods. That's point one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Who has negotiated the transitional periods?]] Every EU accession country has received transitional periods. [[Abg. Grosz: You have limited perceptiveness!]] - No, I have a very strong perceptiveness. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, please! [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Mr Grosz, we know which job You've been doing this for a long time, we know, we know where you did it. And you want your boss's monument renewed every day. Yes, he was, like all the other candidate countries, negotiating for the transitional periods. At present, the situation is such that Austria is the only country within the European Union... – You can save yourself an actual correction! [[Abg. Grosz: (on the way to the Bureau) Actual correction!]] [[Abg. Grosz: I don't think that will determine you!]] It's okay. Austria is the only country that will fully exploit the transitional period. [[Abg. Kickl: That's good!]] The neighbor, for example, will open earlier, there the seasonal eggs will already be on 1st. January 2011 has full access. I currently have a veritable wrap in Austria – I don't hear anything from you, there you are quite calm – with the hoteliers association that I don't do that. There you are. [[Abg. New builder: We can't take all the work off you!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Step back! We'll take over your job!]] At the same time, we continue to have the European Championship: We have the second lowest unemployment rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you claim here that I think that the 25 000 – the number you have of me; that will be about the migration – will automatically take the job away from Austrians, then I can only really ask you to take this claim back. I told you – and I tell you this on every occasion – that there will be a migration. [[Abg. Kickl: But only in one direction! That's the problem!]] If there is no such movement – Mr Kickl, stand at the border with Bratislava, then see It itself – then we would not have as many Vienna cars, which are already commuting to Bratislava every day, for whatever reason, and if it were as you say, for example, we would not already have 10 percent of the Turkish workers legally from Hungary today. The great task is to check compliance with wages and compliance with our collective agreements. Because it is not that someone who is moving from Hungary towards Austria now has a job here automatically. This naïveness is You don't want to go ahead with the Austrians. I suppose that's not going to happen so naively. At the same time – whether we want to hear it or not; They don't want to hear it, I know – we also have 220 000 Austrian daily commuters in other directions. They also exist, but I have never heard of you saying, for example, that the Bavarian labour market must be protected, so all Austrians return! [[Abg. Kickl: Stop with these “arguments”! You can be stupid, too!]] I'm sorry, it's not about stupid jobs. But first of all, the person on the Austrian labour market has to find a job, he has to have a qualification, he has to have language skills and, and, to get a job here at all. That is the basic condition. [[Abg. Kickl: But they're job seekers! Don't forget that!]] [[Abg. Vock: They're not less qualified!]] Again: The highly qualified people do not come in this way, because the whole of Europe is currently looking for highly qualified people. [[Abg. New builder: All the worse!]] In the meantime, the countries where the opening of the labour market has never been an issue, because it was open from home, are looking for qualifications within Europe. Look Why don't you put your hands on the numbers? Let us also stick to the facts in the case of minimum security. [[Abg. Kickl: Now the Germans are coming!]] You've already read it today: 75 percent of those who have registered for minimum security are Austrian citizens. [[Abg. Kickl: But many of them have migration backgrounds!]] Whether or not a part of this migration background does not exist, it does not matter! [[Abg. New builder: It doesn't matter!]] The fact is: What is the premise, among other things, to receive Austrian social benefits? – In this regard, I think we agree: This is citizenship. We agree on this, I assume. So 75 percent are Austrian citizens, and these Austrian citizens get it. The 25 percent who are foreign citizens have to meet some basic requirements so that they can get there at all. Among other things, they must have worked here for five years. In these five years they have worked here, they must have developed this claim at all. So let's leave the church where it belongs. We also have an increase in minimum security. Yes. But if you'd read what we've always published, what we've never concealed, where many have even been criticized, that the number may be a little too small, then you'd know: Yes, we have an increase, because we knew that there is a dark number of Austrians who are entitled to these social benefits. Now, by simplifying the system, making the system more transparent, we must not be surprised that part of what is said in the explanatory remarks, namely an increase between 15 and 20 percent, really happens. We must not be surprised that what we write is happening at once. We're just taking ourselves seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – I am not at all at the point of manning, I am exactly at what is in this matter of law in the explanatory remarks, and as a result there is this rise. [[Abg. Neubauer: So there is an ascent!]] I would like to say to Mr Huber – unfortunately he is not in the hall now; I would ask him to do so – what I have already said in committee: There were 98 asylum seekers who were referring to the AMS on the day of the Committee's meeting, and I did not say how many of them were sitting in the ports, how many of them were not sitting in the ports because I could not understand that at that time. But it's a minimalist number. It is 98 who had a claim at the AMS on that calendar day. The number 98, extended to the whole of Austria, shows that this is not the issue, because these people, in order to have a claim at all at AMS, have worked at least 52 weeks somewhere. [[Abg. Vock: This can only be done by an asylum seekers in the ports!]] This can not only be done by an asylum seekers in the ports. You should also know where an asylum seekers can be employed. [[Abg. Vock: Black works at the municipality!]] You know exactly – don't blind people! – that someone who sits in the port as an asylum seekers is immediately postponed on day X. [[Abg. Riepl: This is their policy, and they will always do it! They can't be different!]] There is one exception: if he is threatened with the death penalty in the country where he is to be postponed. That's the only exception, otherwise you won't find any criminal asylum seekers who won't get pushed into custody on Day X, that is, the day of the release.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19117	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19138	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address briefly all the requests that have been gladly rejected in the Committee, and I am pleased to say so, because otherwise, unfortunately, there is the practice of relinquishing applications over and over again. Because of the content of these applications, it is also very positive that, in this case, the government parties have been forced to reject these three requests. I would like to start with the more or less harmless request, which is to change the rules on cancellations of changes in connection with unemployment benefit. I have already expressed in the Committee that the problem of the termination of the amendment is certainly one that we must devote ourselves to, but in the proposal, as it stands, too many questions are open, as it is supposed to work. That is, I do not think that the objective you are actually defining within is in line with the measures you propose. It's not quite coherent. However, what would definitely come out is that social security contributions would be massively reduced, which would then very likely flow out of the system again, as it were, over higher unemployment benefits. That's an argument that doesn't actually fit with you. Short: This request does not receive our approval because it simply leaves too many questions open. For the second application with the unemployment allowance for asylum seekers or for asylum seekers released from detention: I think that the Minister in the Committee has made it very clear how small the group is of those people who are at all benefiting from this scheme. I remember it differently: You don't have [[towards the Federal Minister for Dog Torfer]] only spoken of the 98, but you said that “nearly none” so to speak. So let's assume it's maybe 20 of them across Austria. Now I think the debate you are taking on it is actually very clear that your work is simply not based on a serious basis. For if there are 20 people affected, I wonder: What else do you want to do than discredit more people coming to Austria because they are looking for help? Nothing else is meant by this request. He has no serious background. If we did, it would have no significant positive effects financially. It serves so to say nothing but for your populist, discriminatory argumentation. We have already discussed the third request for the opening of the Austrian labour market in this or similar form here in plenary. I've been asking a couple of times. What if it were to be extended, after that? I say no, I do not want to give the government a transitional period again, I think that now measures must finally be taken. We've got a few months left. I think there's still a lot missing. I believe that it would be necessary to adopt a minimum wage law, I believe that we urgently need a redefinition of the employee and employee concept, so that even in the future, for example, Scheinselheiden will be prevented, I believe that we need human increases at the control authorities, et cetera, et cetera. But I do not want to wait two and a half years with all these measures, but I think that now all of this should happen. That is why we are going to reject all three requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19198	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19220	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The enlargement of the European Union to include Central and Eastern European countries made it necessary to introduce transitional criteria. At that time, our group – then FPÖ, now BZÖ – took responsibility for government and laid down transitional provisions with two plus three plus two years. In 2009 it was extended once again for the last two years – some states have not done so anymore – because there have been certain differences between social standards, living standards and wage levels. That used to be so, has changed slightly, but is still serious. It is also true that this approximation – which is seen from the statistics – can hardly be reached by the year 2015 when comparing the individual social-statistical documents with these countries. Although Austria has one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe – I think this has already been mentioned by Mr Bartenstein, and that is also a good thing – we must, however, be careful to ensure that, when it comes to 1. In May 2011, freedom of movement on the labour market is virtually guaranteed, does not result in wage dumping, and we must do everything we can to counter wage dumping. Demographic development also tells us a lot. There will be a lot of less labour in Austria, but it should be around 25,000, Mr Federal Minister, that was now your figures. There are certain sectors that are, of course, predestined for it, that will be so, but one must ensure that the living and social standards are not revised downwards. This gives me the impression, because when it comes to a wage negotiation today, the economy screams: We cannot afford to do so, we cannot afford to do so; a wage increase is not possible! We need qualified workers, we need to increase the number of skilled skilled workers, we have too few skilled workers! Why do we have too few? - Because the economy has trained too few. It's easy. This is true once, that is the fact that industry and industry are training fewer and fewer people. If they were to train more, we wouldn't have that need. - That's one. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now we want to introduce a red-and-white red card, which countries such as Canada, the United States of America, Australia and so on have long ago, and we have long called for the FPÖ to be the same at the time, so that there is a controlled movement of people that we also need, of key workers. But I hear again and again, the last one was the Secretary-General of the Industrial Union of Beyrer, who said that less skilled workers are coming than we need. What's the cause? – That can only be the offer, because you have to pay it properly. If you pay them properly, they'll come. If the wage level is too low, no one will come. So it's important to have a well-paid labour force, and it'll do a lot of things. This is the best medicine to counteract wage dumping and also to maintain Austria's economic location in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19271	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! I would like to address the 1101/A(E) request for the extension of the transitional periods for opening the Austrian labour market for EU Member States. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The labour market is a very, very important area and an important topic for us. The measures already taken have shown how serious it is for us to deal with employment, the fight against unemployment, the fight against youth unemployment, the preservation of the workplace and the workplace. We have a positive record – as has already been said by the Federal Minister – that unemployment in Austria is among the lowest in the EU comparison, that we are actually European champions in this respect and that many states envy us for this low unemployment. Nevertheless, every unemployed person is a unemployed person too much. The seven-year transitional period for the EU-8 expires irrevocably at the end of 2011. You too know from FPÖ that a further extension is not legally permitted. Assent to the transitional arrangement with the final end of seven years was made with the involvement of FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. As one of a few states, Austria has always said clearly and stated that this seven-year transitional period is fully exploited. If we look at Germany, we can see that there is a discussion about starting from this seven-year transitional period in some areas. This means that, in seasonal eggs, admission to the labour market is to be heard from 1. ==References====External links== Austria, which we will comply with, will also apply to the Member States Bulgaria and Romania; this is also provided for in the government programme, the seven-year transitional period to 31. ==References====External links== By restricting the employment of third-country nationals and managing the authorisation of EU-8 citizens, we have another, I believe, good tools to control access to the labour market. Despite these instruments, more and more measures are needed, such as the law on wage and social dumping, a reduction in the quotas for third-country seasonals et cetera. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria is well prepared to open the labour market so that employment, the labour market and economic recovery can continue to develop positively. I am convinced that they will also develop positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19338	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19359	Federal Minister! Unfortunately, an actual correction is not enough, but I needed several hours of speaking time to explain to you the small one-time social policy of the last ten years, because in 2001, when Austria negotiated the seven-year transitional periods, you have never had anything to do with concrete labour policy at the Vienna Municipal Council's political boarding school as its old-fashioned chairman and have never had to do with social policy – except that you have been in the union school since your school years. Minister Hundstorfer, I would remind you, even because Mr Bartenstein said it would be impossible to require an Austrian minister to send out further relief for Austria during the transitional periods in Brussels. Minister Bartenstein, Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer, it was not possible in 2001 that Austrian Social Minister Herbert Haupt, together with German SPD Social and Labour Minister Walter Riester, alone, provoked a three-day BESO Council, Employment and Social Council, which had been appointed for a day and then lasted three days. Both ministers have blocked the interests of their countries for so long, until the seven-year transitional periods have come. It's impossible to think, Minister! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It is impossible to imagine that an Austrian minister suddenly develops backbone in Brussels, which is not possible for an Austrian government politician to represent Austrian interests within the European Union. Minister Hundstorfer, that was 2001! But they claim here that the government did not even know what seven years of transitional periods were, but the proud social democracy, which in 2007 under its comrade chairman Gusenbauer and her trade union boss BAWAG Hundstorfer was born new, and suddenly invented the transitional periods. This was 2001, Mr. Federal Minister! I can therefore quote someone who is also unknown to you – for there you also sat in the Vienna municipal council; March 2002 –: The fact that there has even been a time-limit scheme here is, in particular, the Austrian government – between brackets: Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt – thanks, while the red and green Federal Government has so far done too little. - Quote. This was said by the Bavarian Prime Minister, besides Edmund Stoiber, as an unwarranted witness in a social science series to which he made a guest comment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we ask you for something quite natural, namely that you do not act as administrator of your department, but as a political maker, in Brussels also act as a protective force for Austrian interests and that the Austrian interests, which this House should dictate to you here, should also be properly represented there. This is not too much for your gage to demand that you think a little independently, perhaps Austria at the point of your policy, the workers, and look at the fact that the Austrian labour market is protected in the future, instead of making any empty speeches in which you notice – that is the embarrassment – that you do not have a pale shimmer of social policy. It's a shame anyway that you brought it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19424	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19445	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to focus briefly on opening up labour markets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, you have already completed your past treatment here at the Pult. Maybe you could listen now too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Free movement – Mr Bartenstein has already stressed this – is the fundamental right of all EU citizens to work with EU accession anywhere in the EU, we must also appreciate, because with the accession of a country to the EU, its citizens also join and thus have acquired all the rights of an EU citizen. The transitional periods have already been fully exploited and have to be suspended at some point. It is also important to provide for the labour market, because there are still many sectors in Austria that are looking for employees. You shouldn't believe it. [[Abg. Neubauer: Which one? Call us these!]] It is about the desire to work, the attitude and also the ability to work, the qualifications. As an example, I can use agriculture where we face the problem of a shrinking supply of available labour. Experience shows that the domestic labour force is not prepared to do this physically difficult work. We see similar examples in many other industries, for example in the good and old classic craftsmanship. However, despite the opening up of the labour market for the eight Member States, it is also necessary to ensure that labour market regulations are continued, including seasonal quotas, for the two remaining countries and for third-country nationals. I should like to quote briefly from your motion for a resolution. They wrote: “In view of this situation, it seems urgent to point out, as soon as possible, the particular situation of Austria as a result of its peripheral situation...” I am Lower Austriaer, a somewhat younger than you, but since the fall of the Iron Curtain and since the fall of Communism, we are no longer in a peripheral position, but again in the centre of Europe. And that's what it's all about. What it says in our Federal anthem: “You lie in the midst of the earth. ” The opening of the East has brought numerous positive effects, we must not forget that, but we must also take advantage of this opportunity in social policy. A look into the history shows us where we end up in the 19th century. ==References====External links== Terms such as brick trees, raspberry binders, crockery, Bosniaks remind us and document that Central Europe already worked together at the time had an open labour market. There were two wars, fascism and Communism that have torn us apart as a central European region. It is important to continue to build bridges here in order to finally overcome these dark sides of history in order to be able to develop our society in a sustainable way. In order to develop a stable economic location, it also needs appropriate capacities on the labour market. That is why this opening is also to be welcomed. However, it is important to observe that all rules are complied with. Our task is to create appropriate framework conditions and not to create fears. Mr Neubauer, I do not feel that your motion for a resolution is helpful to see in a great challenge the opportunity of shaping the future. That is why we have already rejected your proposal in the Committee, because more courage is needed for a strong Austria in a united Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19496	Since there is no further mention of the matter, I will close the debate. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. Firstly, the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 977 of the supplements. If you agree, I'll ask you for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of report 978 of the supplements. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 979 of the supplements. I'm asking for your positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:52:12]] 25. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 99/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in relation to inflation adjustment of care allowance (984 d.a.) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1207/A(E) by Mr Mag. Helene Jarmer, colleagues with regard to the annual valorization of the care allowance (985 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19578	We come to points 25 and 26 of the agenda. The debate is under one. The first speech comes from Mr Vock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19605	High house! We are talking here today about the index adjustment of the care allowance, a matter that should be of course. Precisely the level of care 1 and 2, on the lower increase due to the more difficult entry of Mr Sozialminister is so proud, are now often not accepted by seniors. I'll give you two examples. A 83-year-old woman has been bedridden for half a year, is fed by the relatives and can only perform her diner at the campground next to the bed. When the family looked for care money on the advice of the family doctor, the following happened: The lady took all her strength together, showed that she stumbled against energy, was putzmunter, showed how quick-lived she is. - Of course she doesn't get a care allowance. A second case is known to me: An 86-year-old man had a stroke, lay in the hospital for half a year as a semi-trailer, then was again so far away that he was released into domestic care. The hospital itself was looking for care money for him. When the doctor came to investigate this, the man did nothing but remember the situation before his collapse, he told him how he cooked himself, how he made himself the apartment, that he needed no care. And that's what you think, of course, as a doctor. Both cases indicate that older people often view this care money as alms. It can't be that this is only seen as alms! These people have built our Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It offers us respect and gratitude to this generation that these people are not treated as alms recipients, but that they are told that this service, this care money is simply a necessity. It will be a little paid off, namely the time of care they take. They are not alms recipients, but they receive a legitimate performance. If the receipt of this benefit is now difficult due to the budgetary situation, then once again they are only beneficiaries of alms, and that must not be it, it cannot be!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19649	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19670	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you look at the two requests we are now dealing with, you can of course say at first sight that these are very popular applications. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Important applications!]] The fact that the proposals are also important is correct, Mrs Colleague. On the other hand, you also have to see the facts – and I ask you to pay attention to them. It is really true at the moment that we in Austria have to face a crisis that does not only lead to the consolidation of the budget in Austria, but rather to the need for governments and parliaments in Europe to deal with it and that all are required to bring the budgets back into a proper state. That is why it is currently the case that the budgetary situation does not allow the annual valorization of the care allowance. I would remind you that countries and municipalities are also subscribing into the care scheme. Many of us are also community representatives, and we know that in the next few years the benefits for social pots will increase by about 20 percent annually. This too must be taken into account in this debate. So I mean, you really have to look at all of this together and we have to find a solution to how we can actually make the care system sustainable. The criticism of the need for uniform criteria in Austria, also raised by Mr Vock, should be looked at together in order to find proper solutions to the care system. However, I would also like to remind you – and I ask you to see this too – that last year in Austria, when in many other countries already massively saved and massive cuts were made in social benefits, the care allowance was increased. You all know, there's been a staggered increase. We have implemented enormous improvements in care benefits for severely disabled children together, we have implemented improvements for caregivers, despite a really big crisis that we also had to deal with. Even now in this draft budget, there is no mention that someone is being taken away. It is not incorporated into existing law, Mr Vock! You have to look at this. No one in the system now loses power. [[Abg. Grosz: But everyone who needs it in the future!]] The seven-stage model is also maintained, although some other political forces believe that something should also be changed at the stages. As I said at the outset, it must be our common goal to put care funding on a proper financial basis. We need to work together to provide care in the best quality of Austria in accordance with the same criteria. We must also be able to develop needs-oriented offers that include extramural care, day-to-day homes and short-term care. As a speaker for the disabled, I am also particularly important that the people's self-determination is always at the heart and at the heart of all considerations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19726	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19747	Mr President. An appeal to colleagues Grosz: Even if it is difficult for you, I would also like to ask you in the interest of the way in which the opposition should deal with the government – not as a defensive act, but because I believe that we urgently need to compromise the discussions – to refrain from personal attacks and abuses in the future. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm sorry that as an opposition I'm always in the same pot, so to speak. [[Abg. Grosz: Since you are in the government in Vienna, you are no longer an opposition!]] I mean, we can discuss hard, and part of your contribution was also hard. But when it comes to personal intervention, no matter if the dog's tore or someone else is concerned, I don't think that's what I'm looking for in here. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now on the matter: Mrs Königsberger said we had to deal with the crisis. – Yes, you can't talk out like that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I know the wrong ones are going to deal with the crisis again. Let us take an example from the current debate: Ireland, where the Irish population has certainly benefited most from this beautiful upturn in the Irish economy in recent years and decades. In some cases, the Irish have not even been able to afford the rents because the land speculation has so exorbitantly increased the rental prices that people who lived in Dublin could not afford to live in Dublin anymore. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] And now it turns out: Land speculation – giant bubble, bank bubble, twenty billion are sunk and continue to be sunk into the rescue of Irish banks. Who's to pay for this? – In this case, it is quite clear that the Irish population, the Irish workers and the female workers are talking about social benefits; we do not have to talk much anyway, because there is almost none. You will pay it – probably. I hope they won't have to pay for it by reducing wages by 10, 20 or 30 percent. This is the concept you have for Ireland. I know we have a different concept. Thank God many things have been saved from us, but now, so to speak, we have to deal with the crisis, we have to understand that the care money is saved, I refuse to accept it – and I also say why. One step back, Mrs Colleague: Introduction of the care allowance – at the time, the helpless grant has been replaced. The helpless grant was as high as the care allowance level 2. He was also in a higher variant. To save yourself a bit with the introduction of the care allowance, one has created a care level 1 which was lower. So that from 1996 onwards you can save yourself a little bit, you have further reduced the low care level 1. In order to save something in the following years, one has not done what was natural in the aid of the helpless, namely the annual valorization. The care allowance has been valorised a total of three or four times. That is, the history of the care money – as much as I defend many elements of the care money – is a story of saving, a history of saving in those where one should not actually save, and this must be said on this occasion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not about understanding the crisis, dealing with the crisis, but it is a continuing history of saving. And I would have expected at least – whether by the ÖVP or by the SPÖ – that this debate would deal differently with this issue. I know. Not us, but you decided to cut the budget in spring. Please do not take us into account that in spring – not yet in the knowledge of how to be saved – you said that these millions should be saved in the care money. I've been wondering at the time: What's going on? How can we be responsible for saving such huge amounts in this area? – They have nevertheless made it, and it is also necessary to comment on it. We are not of the opinion of colleagues from the FPÖ who want retroactive care payments from 1993 onwards – I believe that this is really unrealistic – but we need to evaluate the care allowance and how we can make the care allowance better for the future – and that can't be called short-term – that is urgently necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19820	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19841	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Back to our politics in Austria. It is very interesting to hear the European stories and learn about the processes of all other countries, but I think we are discussing a very basic issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I do not want to get into the suspicion of wanting to defend everything, but where it is entitled, one must also raise the voice to discuss things correctly. Care money has always been a popular topic for all opposition parties – at all times. I understand the request of the Greens – it is not the first time, it will come again and again, it will also come in the future. I do not fully understand the FPÖ's request, especially as I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been in government with us for six years. They had the opportunity. They had the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Social Affairs, and you always thought that an adjustment – is so – at the time – for whatever reason – is not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That is why this proposal, which you are now making, I think, is not quite all right. [[Abg. Grosz: Where was the Minister of Finance? Where was the Minister of Finance?]] On the matter: Mr Oellinger rightly said that the care allowance was introduced in 1993, more or less in the continuation of the aid, which was given in two statements. [[Abg. Grosz:... 2002!]] It is true that the care level 2 has been equipped with the helpless allowance/basic service and then has several care levels built on it. And it is also true that with this phase 1 there was a so-called basic or minor performance or first performance. What you certainly didn't think of at that time is that the care money finds such great acceptance. [[Abg. Oils: No,...! Explanatory notes!]] – No, no, Mr Oillinger, you can do that. Tell someone else, not me. Today, there are over 400 000 Austrians who take care of them. Show me a country in Europe or elsewhere where on our dear earth, where 5 percent of the total population are care providers! Look at the population in Germany. In Germany, there is a care benefit ratio of 2.2 percent. There are three steps there. Of course, the Germans also think of improvements – we also think about it. I consider the requirements that have now been made – also accompanied by the budget – to be well thought out, reasonable and responsible. The care money is today a scale – federal government and countries – of beyond €3 billion. This is an amount to be spoken about, and it finds its purpose in accordance with its purpose. They know that the purpose of the care allowance is to partially cover the care-related additional expenses. So if we now have the discussion, we also have to consider very different things – not only what we have, but also what comes to us. We are living in a time when demographic development takes us in which aging from year to year is in reality a process in which we are all to participate. I wish that to everyone, and myself I wish that. We must also see that there is also some helplessness or support for care. In other words, the number of those entitled to benefit in the future will increase dramatically, and the number of those who have to pay will not increase. Ladies and gentlemen! This is something we need to think about, and so we need to see our responsibility. I think that in some things, of course, there are also flaws. Col. Vock has told about a few cases – there are dozens of such cases. It is true that not everything is 100 percent fine, but such a great miscarriage does not have the care money in Austria with God. We have a duration of about 60 days. It will often not be much shorter because people are not available because a corresponding time of care need needs to be demonstrated and much more. I know the matter, the satisfaction of the people is not always given – clearly – but most of the time, I think, it is present. So you can be happy about it. If it is now said in the discussion that we need a care insurance, a care fund, then that is all right, but then all those who raise this claim should also say how we cover all of this. We will have to get something into this matter – have to! A fifth of the people involved are those who draw the care funds from the national care fund – from the Social Assistance Act – and these are mostly young people. And this is also a special quality of our care money: that we also think of young people who are disabled, who need care. I believe that all of this is not a congratulation program – no – but that this is a good law to serve, above all, the people who need help and care. All those who do not see themselves fully in their right have the opportunity to be re-examined once again through labour and social courts in a reasonable period of procedure. I think that's all right, too. I'll get it to the point: We will not give these two requests the consent because there is no reason to do so. We will continue the consistent, goal-oriented, responsible social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19925	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e19947	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Oellinger, for his words, but I should like to add a little more to what Mr Donabauer has already done. Stage 1 was introduced in addition to the introduction of the care allowance. Why? – Because the helpless grant and level 2 – also from the rules of the game – were totally identical. It was not a saving measure, but a easier entry into the system. From whom did the government of that time learn that? – To say this openly and honestly: from Vorarlberg, for Vorarlberg was the only federal country that had already made such a thing at the national level. This was taken over at the federal level, including with the idea of making a little better preventively. Mr Vock, we have 60 000 new proposals per year, 60 000 new people are coming into the system. That's what's happening right now. And, of course, we know that in these 60,000 cases – there are still some that are rejected – there are certain things happening there or there, as you have described. What are we doing? - Don't look away, look at it. We now have five federal states in which since 1. October someone from the field of care is going to examine together with a physician. That's what we've got on the 1st. October started. We only wanted to try this in two federal states, but now we have five. That's practical life right now. Why did we do that? – In order to be able to address people very easily, because certain situations, as you described them, are primarily not medical questions, but primarily questions of care. I say this very salopp: The basic diagnosis of dementia is one, and then much more is only in the care sector, as the basic diagnosis of dementia will not change much. That's what we're doing. I do not want to pre-empt the budget debate we have, but you will not find less money in any budget law when it comes to caring than what we are spending this year. They will not find a single euro less, but we will save on growth. If we were not to do anything, we would have to spend €2,107 billion on care money next year, because 60,000 new ones will come into the system. [[Call the FPÖ:So Greece!]] Of course, a certain part dies, not a question at all. We don't spend €2,107 billion for this, but €2,088 billion. That's the so-called damping effect. For those who are now in the system, nothing happens, with one exception: At the care level 6 there is an increase of 18 €. [[Abg. Riepl: That's good anyway! That's good anyway!]] That's the exception. We allow ourselves to intervene in the existing system. For all who are in the system, the rules of the game remain as they are. [[call to the FPÖ.]] - The rules as they are. The only thing that changes is that new access to the system is slightly dampened. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Harder! ... slightly dampened!]] Why are we doing that? – Because this is the group of people who buy the least social services. The care level 1 is the group in which only 13 percent buy social services. The rest take care of themselves, the rest is cared for by relatives, whatever. That's why there's this damping effect. This damping effect is, I believe, very well explainable and very probably disputable. I have already discussed this with very many senior associations, many seniors, that is not the issue. I would like to say once again what has already been said, what Mr Donabauer has said – I would like to invite you, this is a publicly accessible OECD statistics, you can download all of this yourself, but I can also give it to you –: Austria is the world champion. We are the only country in the world in which 5.1 percent of the population receive care money! The countries that are always our role models – I say so, because I draw them very often to comparison: Sweden: 3.5 percent, Norway: 3.9%. There is no country between Norway and Austria and Switzerland which has 4 percent. We are the only world champion with 5.1 percent care money! This world championship will not change, even if we reduce the increase something because what we will not do and what you will never hear from me is that we will reduce the effects at the care levels 7, 6, 5, and, and, and do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] We will not, and we will not do that in the future. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20030	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20051	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, you have now prefaced the future budget and have actually presented it very positively, spoke of damping and of the fact that nothing will be changed and so on. One can also say to de facto cuts dampenings, and one can also say that those who are now applying for new care money – especially in the care allowance levels 1 and 2 – have had bad luck that they did not seek earlier because they are less served. [[Call the FPÖ: ‘Social justice’!]] I think we should stick to the truth for all differentiation – I know how to value the care money as a very, very important achievement – and say: The care allowance, as we have now had it since 1993, is an excellent achievement, in order, as has already been said, to partially pay care-related additional expenses by means of cash benefits, to secure the necessary care so that people can live as self-determined and need-oriented as possible, in order to be able to choose the type of care, in particular. This care allowance is also intended to promote family and outpatient care and to prevent stationary stays. So basically a great thing, but it must also be clear that this care allowance, introduced in 1993, was first raised in 2005 – not under this government, but under a government that you prefer not to mention, but I already – under an ÖVP FPÖ or ÖVP BZÖ government was increased by 2 percent. In 2009, the first steps were increased by 4 percent to reduce them de facto again. I say that the annual adjustment to inflation is simply missing. That's fact. She lacks family benefits. It is for me, for us, not comprehensible when fees, tariffs, promotions of parties are adjusted annually – no one speaks of that, there is an inflation adjustment – but benefits for families, benefits in the field of care, for those who need it especially, not. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That, I think, is simply not allowed. Mrs Königsberger said that it was permissible to do so now. I think it is permissible that, if one is adjusted, the other is adjusted at least. Therefore, we will agree with the request of the Greens by the BZÖ, not the request of the FPÖ, because, while the inflation adjustment and the annual valorization are inside, there is also a need for a retroactive increase in the care allowance, and I know that this is practically impossible. But the tenor is the same, so we will agree to the request of the Greens, because care must continue to be manageable, quality and safe. And the care money is part of a hopefully soon presented by you overall concept.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20089	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the last provisional speaker in this debate. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A study by Health Österreich GmbH and the Economic Research Institute dealt with the development of care costs by 2020 and came up with an identical forecast: In the ten years, not only will the cost of benefits increase by more than €600 million, but additional 13 000 professionals will be needed. So all in all – that's not so far away anymore – this is a challenge that we need to master with a budget that is no longer bigger. This means, to point out, that an inflation adjustment or an annual valorisation of the care allowance is not possible in this situation. That is why I repeat what my colleague Donabauer said: We cannot accept these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20142	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 984 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 985 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[19:22:41]] 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2009/4 (III-38/971 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20198	We're coming to the 27th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20225	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The work of the Austro Control in the years 2003 to 2007, the Court of Auditors assessed in detail the following: To highlight positively, the rationalisation measures, the Austro Control was above the average in European comparison with its productivity indicators in the field of air safety. Too few flight safety officers spent too many hours overtime, resulting in a sudden increase in staff costs by more than 10 percent in 2007. An insufficient planning of air safety costs and a lack of assessment of the costs of air traffic control. Aviation security fees led to undercovering the flight safety costs of the Austro Control amounting to just under €24 million. In 2009 more than a million flight movements were counted in Austria. On strong days, this is more than 4,000. This high level of traffic contributes to an enormous burden on air traffic safety staff – especially if there are too few personnel for this responsible activity. A discontinuous personnel development in the Austro Control was triggered by the short air transport crisis after 2001 and caused a need gap for air traffic control personnel in the following years. The Austro Control has not yet been able to make up for this through recruitment in 2006 and 2007 due to the long training periods, the Court of Auditors noted. The Austro Control records 40 air traffic controllers per year, and the training lasts three to four years. In response to the Court of Auditors criticism, the training capacity has also been significantly increased since 2009. Currently 80 trainees are in the pipeline, in addition to eleven EuroCONTROL air traffic controllers, which will be in use for three years from spring 2011. This is in line with the Court of Auditors' suggestion that additional personnel in the field of air traffic controllers should be needed in order to maintain air safety through Austro Control in the medium term. The Court of Auditors also recommends adapting the existing CEATS Treaty. This recommendation is also already being implemented within the framework of the Single European Sky project with nine airspaces. From the common airspace with nine functional blocks instead of 60 control zones by the end of 2012, significant improvements are expected in the handling of air traffic. Austria is actively pursuing work on this project; a project that is no longer based on national borders, but solely on operational requirements. Finally, I should like to thank all those who responded so quickly, sensitively and conscientiously to the Court of Auditors' recommendations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20276	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20298	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! My previous speaker, Mr Kaipel, said that air traffic control, carried out by Austro Control, has managed well, in principle, according to the Court of Auditors' current auditing skills and can achieve its objectives to a large extent by 2007. President Moser has also explained this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. As far as productivity is concerned – this is also mentioned by Mr Kaipel – Austro Control has long been in the forefront of international, European comparison. However, from 2007 onwards, there will be a slight set-aside, which has not only taken place in the personnel sector, but also in other areas which the Court of Auditors has also identified. For example, the overtimes since 2003 have increased by more than 200 percent, but – and this is actually worth being informed – the normal working time has been reduced from 35 hours to 32,5 hours at the beginning of 2008 and this has happened in the knowledge that every flight manager per working day 1.43 About In the case of an accident, the competent authority of the So it's not understandable to me: The working time goes back to 32,5 hours, knowing that each employee does 1.43 hours of overtime per day. The fact is that for many years there was an overtime remuneration scheme, which provided that there was a double supplement as early as the eleventh overtime. ==References====External links== That's how it was introduced hour ago. From my point of view, this is an incomprehensible development. As a result, the personnel costs were speeded up, temporarily accounting for around 66 percent, i.e. two thirds, of total air safety costs. I have not received a final explanation for the reduction of working time from Austro Control and its Managing Director Sommerbauer, who was present in the Committee, nor from the Federal Minister. I feel a bit of an impression that the Federal Minister of Finance made a gift to the Works Council in 2007. I believe that Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is in need of action in the area of air safety in the border area. While there are agreements in this area close to the border, the neighbouring country concerned is taking over air safety. However, what is still not available is international agreements that clarify the liability issue in the event of incidents and accidents. Years of legal disputes should be able to be avoided in the sense of the possible victims or their families. There is indeed an excellent example of this, namely that accident in Overlings in 2002. Here, there have been years of legal disputes with regard to deductions, pains and so on to the victims or their relatives. Among other things, the Court of Auditors also criticised the fact that the Federal Ministry did not require activity reports from Austro Control and that the business concept did not go as planned to the Minister, but only to representatives of the Ministry. The Court of Auditors has also not yet completed the merger of all civil weather services. So, ladies and gentlemen, you see: Minister Bures needs an acute response. I cannot defend myself from the impression that air traffic control in the ministry has a shadow existence in the light of the yet broad catalogue that it has been completed and that it is still unfinished. That can't be it, that's changed. I call on the Minister to act, and I should like to thank him for his attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20359	The next speaker was Mr Zanger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20380	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Today, we have a nice opportunity to discuss several reports on the areas in which the Court of Auditors is active – because we have spoken about the Court of Auditors' competence in the communities in the morning and we cannot see it all so negatively. We have to discuss consultation reports this evening – I say now – and then perhaps some more scandalous report, if we come to the next item on the agenda, to the ÖBB. It can be seen that the activity of the Court of Auditors always brings about something, especially if one considers it economically. According to the Austro Control report, this seems to be a good way forward, the previous speakers have already said, and we can only confirm this from our point of view, although, of course, there are some thoughts and suggestions, such as the CEATS Central European Aviation Safety Project, which is obviously not to be put on the rails and where one has to consider whether one should not stop the membership payments, resolve it and address it differently. Mr Moser has also clearly stated in the Committee that this would be the most meaningful thing. Of course, there are always so styling flowers – even if I say that was a consultation report – styling flowers in the sense that the overtimes have increased dramatically, from 55 000 in 2003 to over 120 000 in 2007. It has also been mentioned that since the shine performance was accomplished to reduce the weekly working time from 35 to 32,5 hours. There are actually no words on it. The managing director's statement on this matter was: We couldn't do anything, that's what the union wanted! – If you run a company like that, I don’t think you’re absolutely the most suitable one for that, but who knows what went on in the background. We have still found – and this has already been read in other reports – that there is a need for action in relation to the weather services. There were once three, you have said that it has become instead of less, there is now a fourth to it. I believe that a country like Austria should get through with one, maybe a maximum of two. The potential for savings would be enormous and it would be a good service to the Republic if one were to get through it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20423	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20444	I have actually believed that Mr Zanger is starting right, but he has not developed the way of thinking that is important to me on this point – and this is an appeal to all political groups: If we are discussing the Court of Auditors' report in this way, it makes no sense. It happened by chance to the first three speakers that they were discussing about the same topic, the Austro Control, but at this point we are not only discussing it, there are four or five other points and I now have a good desire or also the interest to discuss, of course, the execution of the care allowance. But there will be no other speaker, perhaps the colleague, Donk, who will also say something about the care allowance. If we want to take our control task - and this is not just the work in the Court of Auditors - seriously, then we can no longer do the debate on the Court of Auditors' reports as we do. Everyone chooses what's important to him – that's not an accusation, no matter who and which subject. There must be a different order for the discussion of Court of Auditors reports here, otherwise it is pointless. One says A, the other says E and there is no common language anymore or the feeling that there is a common interest in control here – and that is why we are discussing the Court of Auditors report. What you also see as far as we are at the back – not again an accusation, but just a statement – is that here we are carrying out the care allowance on the basis of the VAEB, i.e. the railway operator or ÖBB-Dienstleistungs GmbH discuss. In the Committee, however, we are already one step further and we know, in fact, how the novel that the Court of Auditors has begun to tell in relation to the care allowance ends. It ends with a clear appeal that the thing is not done with it, by cutting VAEB and Dienstleistungen GmbH on a common “packl” and that at least at ÖBB the care money is administered together, but of course we need this in another form through a uniform body for all federal states – a joint execution of the care allowance. So, unfortunately, at the end of the day I ended up with the point, which is across to what the colleagues have said before me. Just, we don't need to be surprised if someone doesn't really take us seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20495	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Schenk spoke. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20517	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I can give my colleague Karl Oellinger much of what he said before me. That really needs to be discussed in order to find a solution and to discuss the Court of Auditors' reports accordingly, to treat them worthyly and perhaps also to put them in a prominent position on the agenda and not always as the last, the previous or the previous item on the agenda, as it is again the case today, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] Now to this report: I refer to the audit of the Austro Control and I would like to refer in this context to a statement by Mr State Secretary Arbitrator, who meant that we are still providing three weather services, that would be a persuasion mentality and he could not understand them. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council is himself part of this persuasion mentality, which he condemns, because for decades this mentality has been the basis of black and red, as you make your policy here. They persistently refuse an administrative reform, which would be the most important step in dealing responsibly with the tax money. The Court of Auditors shall make this clear in each report. He shows it up and repeatedly charges it again and again. What are you doing? – You ignore it. The Court of Auditors will also be bothered if it is allowed to believe the statements made by Pröll and Faymann, which were recently expressed in connection with criticism of the budget by the President of the Court of Auditors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, responsible politics is not characterised by having ideas where people can save, but where they can save themselves. And what we insist on from the BZÖ is the following: no taxes on the population until the savings potential of the administrative reform is raised! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20566	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Court of Auditors, this report III-38 d.B. to take note of this. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:39:18]] 28. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2010/7 (III-152/972 d.b.) President Mag. Dr. Martin Graf: We're coming to 28. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Herbs. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20632	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I have only a few comments on a much debated subject, namely the irrational speculation of the Federal Railways in 2005. Mrs Bures, like her colleagues in the government, has to save hundreds of million euros, around 500 million euros in that case. When you think about it – of course, under protests and even a declaration of war, as you can hear – that the ÖBB actually put €600 million at risk with a bet, which ultimately led to a damage of € 300 million, the causes lie elsewhere for these necessary measures. We know who is politically responsible and also in the company. Whether that was Gorbach's minister at the time or ÖBB's chief Huber or Söllinger, Reithofer, Kukacka – the names are all common to us. Today, when accusations are raised against those – and we will see this with the next speakers – who will have to put the whole malaise back in order, then it is in reality not only transparent, but also blatant. So, the cause and the consequence of these speculations must not be confused. I'll make a second comment. I have been in the Court of Auditors since 1991 and in the dozens I have repeatedly praised the Court of Auditors – and rightly so. Today I make a somewhat critical remark because a certain passage was contained in a raw report but was not in the report at last. The argument was not quite convincing why it was. This is a very crucial point, because the capital representatives have been informed unilaterally about the speculations in 2006 and thus it has been somehow sanctioned – “healed”, as a German judge called it. This is a very relevant point, because it has of course influenced all later repair measures. The fact that workers' representation has been eliminated by cold means would have already been a note which should have been included in the III-152 report of the Supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20673	Mr Steindl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20696	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's like my previous speaker, Günther, carried out herbs. So, it is not a success story of the ÖBB Executive Board, that these speculations, which have been carried out here, have ultimately been lost in about €295 billion, and I must say that these financial risks have already begun in 1996. There you have done large-scale cross-board leasing business and sold some €4.4 billion of car equipment and equipment, locomotives and so on to an American leasing company, according to American law, where no one knows exactly how this will end up. At the moment, according to the present Court of Auditors report, €627 million of remaining liabilities are still outstanding in 2008. There are also corresponding cash benefits, which can be compared positively here, with about € 272 million. But overall there is still a high risk. One has then tried on the one hand to link this with these CDO business. I don't think that's a glorious story at all. As for the supervision of this board of directors, I believe that, even if payment payments are still paid and these boards are relieved without further burden, in the future it will be necessary to look more closely at them so that further damage will not occur in this large company. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Exactly!]] Another part of the Court of Auditors' report has dealt with the increase in revenue from mineral oil tax. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is only at the next point!]] This is a very positive report, as I mean. The political objectives have been largely implemented here. It was possible – to say this briefly again – to benefit from this in the infrastructure at between €60 million and €120 million annually; for the climate and energy funds €50 and €150 million, in fact in 2008 €100 million. For JI/CDM programmes, €10 million and €20 million respectively and for other environmental promotion measures in about €10 million. So it's a positive thing and it's happening as it was politically wanted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20744	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20765	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors' team, especially Mr Moser, personally. Mr President, I would like to thank you for not letting you loose on the question of budgetary reorganisation and reminding you that there is no major reform without it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Lugar.]] Administrative reform, health reform, structural reform, which is simply a command of the hour. Without these major reforms, we will not be able to achieve budget recovery. The fact that you've gotten a slut from the government side is essential, I would like to say. The government is not supposed to be insulting, but it is supposed to do what you propose. But now on the topic of ÖBB's financial transactions. This report, as always very detailed, reads like a criminal novel. In fact, the processes are close to criminal machinations. [[Abg. Grosz: Not close! It's you!]] - Good. I'm saying close. You have to know that the Austrian federal railways receive about €6 billion each year from the taxpayer. They're already wondering: How do the Austrian Federal Railways get involved in financial transactions and speculations amounting to € 620 million? The ÖBB, which only hangs on the control pot, speculates money. The Court of Auditors shall carry out this task and submit to the management of the Bundesbahn: Infringement of due diligence and no approval of this transaction by the Supervisory Board or the Executive Board. The approach was based on individual powers. The four-eye principle has failed. It is particularly problematic that the statutes clearly state that derivative financial instruments as a non-road business should not have been completed at all. Although these actions have occurred, there has been no far-reaching investigation into the question of debt. Finally, a loss of € 292 million remained, a loss that the taxpayer has to pay. What have been the consequences for this approach? - None! On the contrary: The Boards responsible for this – you know the names – Huber and Söllinger have been generously completed with €1.2 million and € 800 000 respectively and have thus even been rewarded for this mismanagement. From my point of view, we would have released such people without notice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The accusation I make to the owner's representative, namely the Supervisory Board, is: There should never have been a discharge for these people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20823	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20844	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need consequences! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] You heard it: a volume of over €612 million, with an annual interest rate of 0.59 percent, with a high risk. I mean, what kind of person, who's pretty much with sense forces, is such a stupid contract? This happened, please, with the approval and signature of holding board members, with the approval and signature of ÖBB-Infrastructure Bau AG Boards and with signatures and approval of ÖBB-Personenverkehr AG Boards, against the information. There was no information at the Supervisory Board, no queries, no risk analyses, no security agreements, and the whole happened even more or less in a shift of responsibility, which led to a single person, namely the one who closed the business with Deutsche Bank by email in September 2005. We have a shift, zero responsibility, and millions of discharges. That is why, at the beginning of my speech, I have just tabled the recommendations of the President of the Court of Auditors as a proposal for your application. We in Parliament have the task not only of ensuring that controls are carried out, but also of ensuring that there are consequences. There is nothing to be done if Mrs Bures, in the Committee on the Court of Auditors and in the public, is always saying this: Yeah, that won't happen again. We've changed everything. It must not be speculated anymore and we must now let it be based on it, and that is why the whole thing has to be done. No, you can't! Hold Let's have a look at this again! First of all, the approach in the back and front is really a push. My previous speaker has already quoted parts of the Court of Auditors' report. Secondly, those responsible are still partly in the service, zero responsibility or, that is the other variant, have been handled with Golden Handshakes. It's just too far away from us. In the debate in the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors has also said very well that, in spite of better knowledge, the supervisory councils have been burdened by the responsible persons who have been discharged from the board of directors, there is no reason for us not to address the issue of organ liability seriously, to impose claims for damages, and to make sure that, in all cases, those responsible are actually taken into account financially. We have opinions which also make recommendations in this direction. It is also clearly stated in the Court of Auditors' report that although the Board of Directors says that there are also opinions that support this process, such as Golden Handshakes, but these opinions are not existing. The Court of Auditors has in no way the possibility of seeing these phantom opinions at all. So the argument is not coherent in itself and actually collapses. The Supreme Court has already come to realize that it is very likely that when such mismanagement occurs, board members can simply be discharged, can be released without delay, can be discharged without discharge. But no, it was politically wanted – I call names – by Faymann and politically covered by Bures that the responsible persons with over €1.2 million have partly started their private life and have also received a gold finish with €800 000. We won't let that happen. That is why I have also introduced a case-law presentation to the public prosecutor's office for infidelity, because this must also be prosecuted by criminal law. If the Republic, if the public authorities themselves do not go the normal way that the Court of Auditors suggests, then the prosecutors must work. It can't be that every time we discuss double-digit million amounts in plenary and now here on the other hand, where it's really about three-digit and three-digit. more goes, the SPÖ takes responsibility in the 3 minute-staccato, the ÖVP withdraws. Yes, my goodness, Cross-Border leasing is also a problem. – Yes, of course, we only need consequences! This is not the case, and I am still going to use various instruments, partly a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, so that what the Court of Auditors recommends is really done. We need consequences, organ liability, liability, damages after these massive speculation losses. I didn't show you this anymore for reasons of time. You should really look at it in detail. At the end of the day, I'll just call it a given possibility: We still have additional damage, simply because practically the wrong safeguards agreements have been made. We still have 1.8 million additional damage instead of getting out in time. That is why I would like to end by thanking the Court of Auditors. It's a shame, of course, you've checked 2008 to December, now look at the clock, it's late 2010. Just remember how far the ÖBB has postponed the disclosure and disclosure of this report by their delayed opinion. That alone, I think, is reason enough not to let down here and continue to demand consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20951	Mr Grosz is speaking as the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e20972	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I can only follow the remarks made by my previous speaker. It is ghastly and simply an insanity that we discuss on the bright day with full crowd of viewers under switched-on cameras over € 25 million and then sometime at eight o'clock in the evening, after no one is in the house who could hear this, except he is a MP, discuss how loss has come to € 295 million in such business of the ÖBB, at a total volume of these cross-board leasing transactions amounting to € 613 million. I therefore call on all the political groups and, in particular, on the BZÖ, Greens and FPÖ groups to ensure in future when drawing up the agenda, in agreement with the President, that the Court of Auditors reports are not postponed to the end of the agenda and that perhaps the President is needed, please do not talk for too long, because it is a football game somewhere, because it is not a problem anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That was the Westenthaler!]] [[Call the BZÖ: That was an emergency!]] We must ensure that these reports are also debated prominently, because the Court of Auditors too, in our self-understanding and in the self-understanding of the rule of law, is an institution of Parliament, and we should always remember that. The speculation and loss of € 295 million are a scandal! It is also a scandal, however, as one has dealt with this malversation de facto, that to date the Minister of Transport, the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the ÖBB and the Board of Directors has not been able to take advantage of civil and criminal law and the share-law possibilities so that the ÖBB can also hold to the responsible ones. The President of the Court of Auditors has been on rather lost posts in the Committee and has not only once, but five times – counted five times! – not soaked with the fence, but now with the whole forest and has appealed to the delegates and to the ministers and the representatives of the ÖBB: Please, hold the responsible person harmlessly and see that we return to our money or at least to some of this money by the responsible managers, that we finally also have consequences in this area. To this end, the Federal Government, neither red nor black, has been able to pass through to this day that one has already known these painterries that Faymann knew and then Bures, who leads those managers to consequences and leads to complaints against the leaders of responsibility and decrees. Therefore, the opposition parties Greens, Free and BZÖ are in the best way to decide to apply with January for a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. In this we will not only make the painting around these cross-board leasing businesses the subject, but also this scandal of €7 million, which went to a Hungarian lobbyist for the MAV Cargo, for this deal that has gone backwards. We will address ÖBB's pensions once and even this lively Sodom and Gomorrah, this company, which is in scandalous hostagery of SPÖ, in its economy, will also make this the subject of a so-called small committee of inquiry in order to comply with your recommendation that the Federal Government should finally have consequences in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21022	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21076	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I have no memory of you ever being allowed to talk about a football game, Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I remember, however, that Mr Westenthaler, who has often been a member of the Westthaler, gives up football games early – and I think today it is so far again and he's gone again. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: But he is the chairman of the Sports Committee and not the Committee of the Regions!]] Away from the Federal Railways to the use of the more revenue from the mineral oil tax increase. The Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, has examined the use of the additional revenue from the increase in mineral oil tax in 2007 and has found that the objectives were very vague and therefore could not be controlled. The countries have also made it easy and after a year have already been able to do what they wanted, without objective infrastructure, without targeting climate protection. Propos infrastructure: We have already held a heated debate on infrastructure measures in Upper Austria today, and the ÖVP and the other political groups have assembled that no Upper Austrian has yet spoken about this. Let me have a few sentences. Point one: If we decide on a budget framework law that really imposes intensive savings on all ministries, so the ministers are saving, then we insist that this meets a federal country, and then a discussion breaks out that this is not possible and that this is not possible, then I wonder what it is supposed to be! I think it is urgently necessary to deal with the proper traffic solution for Linz with a fourth bridge immediately, only: There will be no progress in dealing with the media with declarations of war and up-to-date barricades risings at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: For that we have money!]] [[Abg. Grosz: For two pages in the “Kronen Zeitung” the woman has money!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: To do this, the money is there!]] There are so many views on this traffic solution that I don't know very slowly what's really right. Interestingly, there is also in this house, just on the sides of the FPÖ and, above all, the BZÖ, a very massive set-up for the Westring. If the BZÖ is so much for this, I would recommend to the colleagues of the BZÖ to talk to their people in Linz, because the Linz BZÖler, also represented in the municipal council, write to the Federal Minister and congratulate her on her attitude, because this Westring, who is nothing and... – I can't read this to you, I don't have so much time. [[Oh-noise at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Who promised the Westring? Was that the Faymann? Was that the "Ober-BZÖler" Faymann?]] [[Call for the call.]] But please, take a look first, talk about yourself properly in your own house, and then together we will make a proper solution for Linz!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21211	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21233	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! We still have to deal with the ÖBB a little bit – I am guilty of this as a bending field for my hackers who work on the railway and are constantly confronted with the question of what operation and under what circumstances they work and what they have to answer. They are not at all guilty, but quite different. And that's why we'll come to the meeting later, at the speech of Mr. Hackl. This is one of those cases that are quite typical of being able to say: Let's leave the hands of things you don't understand. And the ÖBB Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board should rather look at the fact that trains drive, and that customer-friendly and service-oriented, instead of participating in financial and speculation operations. You're supposed to say, "No, no, no, no, Schuster, stay with your performance! This is actually the Quintessence when reading this Court of Auditors report: some €300 million loss from a business that was not described as “business” from the very beginning, because the “fable” commission that could have flown from it was in a range of between 0.14 and 0.26 percent. That's, as it were, the return from it. This is a farce from the very beginning, that you have even taken it, and you have made your fingers not only dirty, but even broken them. A rewarding investment looks different, not at 0.26 percent interest rate, and this is still at 100 percent risk. But obviously these gentlemen do not know. I would recommend that you go to a bank on the World Saving Day, because they get at least 1 percent on a savings book. When it became clear that losses arose, there were no targeted decisions for two years. This was clearly shown by the Court of Auditors, which is also obviously an information manual on the Board of Directors and the relevant bodies as regards the risk management of such investments. It's clear: If you come from another matter, it can go into your pants very much – and that's it. One more thing to do now: The Supervisory Board has also failed to respect the due diligence and the resulting liability claims. We can only fully support the organ liability action that Mrs Moser's Greens have put into the room with the request of Mrs Moser's Greens. Of course there's something to do. A subject has still been addressed – Mr Grastaur has mentioned this anyway –: the ominous handlings to the responsible board. That's what you have to say: The Supervisory Board is already responsible for discharges, and on the Supervisory Board I also have a certain Mr. Willi Haberzettl as a staff representative in my knowledge. [[Abg. Grosz: He's really stupid in this debate at all!]] Yeah, he's always pretty quiet and shivering in the back. Nor does he express himself, if it is said, that the evil railers must retire at the age of 52 years. What does the person, the Austrian citizen, understand as “railwayer ”? These are for the average citizen those who provide shift service, the creators, the locusts, the staff in shift and so on and so on. But where does this retirement age come from? This does not come from these areas, not from those who deserve it, who are already entitled to retire by law. For these there is not even a successor! No, Mr Haberzettl sends his people out of the offices into retirement, and that's the big cleaner! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Pöchhacker already shows the next scandal: MAV Cargo. Yes, we will go to the bottom of it in a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors from January and I am looking forward to it. [[Abg. Grosz: Haberzettl silent!]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors, thank you for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21302	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hackl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21323	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to refer once again to the point of using more revenue from the budget. I see this use as more critical than one of my previous speakers, and the Court of Auditors also sees it as so. The definition and concreteization of the use of these funds is very muddy. This has also been demonstrated by the Court of Auditors in the course of an audit carried out at the various locations – the BMF, BMLFUW and BMVIT. No concrete projects could be mentioned. The Court of Auditors also very delicately points out in its report that funding from this increase could also be used for CO2 certification trading. In my view, this is the completely incorrect use of these means. Now to the BMF. The BMF has also promoted a certain steering effect as one of the reasons, but it has not been determined whether this increase actually brings a steering effect, for example in tank tourism or in similar things. It is therefore possible to draw the summation: The primary goal is to get money into the state funds. And the ordinary citizen is actually right when he says the driver is the milk cow of the nation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21356	Next, Mr Tadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21377	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! It has already been mentioned several times that the consideration of the items on the agenda which concern the Court of Auditors – you, Mr President – which, as honourable Members Moser said, usually takes place as a midnight deposit, is almost already taking place in the pre-night programme or in the main evening programme, and this is absolutely welcome. The Court of Auditors, as Mr Molterer said today – I quote it – is not the owner of absolute truth, but I would already be satisfied with the relative truth about the speculation business of the ÖBB. At Austria's most famous construction site, debt is rising rapidly, and it is still threatening to do so from Brussels, because the Maastricht problem with the outsourced infrastructure companies, which was feared by the State Debt Committee for 2014, could become a hitch for the ÖBB as early as next year. Therefore, the ÖBB is in danger of being unable to achieve the 50 per cent threshold required under the Maastricht Treaty in the absence of any necessary revenue. However, as a counterweight, these are more than necessary so that the debts from the railway expansions in the infrastructure companies and hence the debts out of the ÖBB can still be carried out as private and do not have to be committed to public debt. If this occurs, ladies and gentlemen, then we have Greek, Irish, Spanish or Portuguese conditions. In this context, it seems to me more than necessary not only to take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously, Mr President Dr. Moser, but also to implement them and to take the former Board of Directors, as we have already heard today. Due to the justified suspicion of gross due diligence violations and infringement of existing regulations by the board members of the ÖBB, the federal railways have remained on a loss, as we have heard many times today, of € 295 or € 300 million. The Court of Auditors notes in its report that significant risks have been concealed, ladies and gentlemen, and that the Supervisory Board has been informed incorrectly and incompletely. In order to be able to enforce in the future the liability for organs and the resulting – as Mr Moser has said – claims for damages should also be included in the contracts for the board of directors as well as for the Supervisory Boards. It may not be that taxpayers are speculated and, in the event of loss, none of the persons responsible are taken into account. But it is obvious that the morale and the budgetary responsibility of the ÖBB Boards are not required. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As we have heard today, the Court of Auditors is the control body of the Republic; you, Mr President, can only make recommendations. All the more important, Mr President, is finally to take these reports seriously and stop speculation transactions with state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21435	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Widmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21459	Mr President. High house! I also take the opportunity to discuss this Court of Auditors report in connection with the use of surplus income from the mineral oil tax, also in the connex with what happened to these more revenues or, more generally, has not happened, and first of all I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and its President for reporting. But I also put the whole thing under the motto: “There’s nothing new in the West,” or today perhaps: “With the Westring a lot new,” because today you have the opportunity – I have already announced – to do with heads at the Westring Nägel and the request that the Landtag in Upper Austria, with the voices of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ, has already decided to take part here. This will be the sample of nails for the credibility of the ÖVP and also the SPÖ: whether they take people in Upper Austria seriously, whether they are from the past to pledges, and thirdly, whether they take their own party in Upper Austria, the ÖVP and the SPÖ seriously. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Dear colleague from the SPÖ, when colleague Gaßner speaks of letter writers from Linz, I say to you quite clearly: This street is not a municipal road, which is a federal road of enormous importance for the Federal State of Upper Austria. The Court of Auditors has also examined the use of the funds from the increase in the tax on mineral oil, which is in two years, 2007 and 2008 – I have chosen it, on page 18 – 542 million more, only by increasing the tax on mineral oil. And because we now know that in the SPÖ and ÖVP load package the mineral oil tax should be increased by 5 cents, but the citizens don't know where this money comes from, that it doesn't matter in road construction, but it's simmering somewhere in the general budget, I wonder if this is the right strategy for infrastructure in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, it is important to make the nail sample now and to carry out this nail sample by name. I would also like to thank Mr Tadler, but also colleagues of the FPÖ Group, who have contributed to the request for a national vote. I would therefore like to make the following request, which, by the way, is identical with the country-day proposal, which is only once again to clarify for the SPÖ and for the ÖVP, which is why I am already very excited: [[Quoted print version removed]] The request is therefore consistent with the request made by the Landtag, and I would like to ask the ÖVP and SPÖ Members, but in particular the Members from Upper Austria, to agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21547	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21651	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21673	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I was not quite sure until a minute ago if I should agree with Mr Widmann's request or not after he had been announced. [[Abg. May. Widmann: That would have surprised me, Jacob!]] But since you have made it clear that the Westring project – and this is indisputably one of the most important road construction projects in Upper Austria – is necessary for the commuters, for the businesses, for the city of Linz, for the Upper Austria; that is undisputed – is a federal road and not a municipal road, as you yourself have done, but at the same time you submit the request that the more revenue from the mineral oil tax should be used for financing, I wonder why suddenly the communities from this area should co-finance the project! Obviously, you do not know that the tax revenue from these taxes is available to the federal, state and local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, we reject such funding, I say quite openly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr President, it is undisputed that I have once made the proposal to ensure a PPP model, and I am still convinced that this would be a possibility. Don't worry, it's not about a particular bank, because it's well known that it's necessary to write out such a project, and the best bidder would get the order. That's what you're going to want. Or do you want to take a certain direction? I do not want to do so, I would like to take part in a fair call for proposals. The fact is, Mr Gaßner: I would have expected you not to add oil to the fire in the last minute. I would have expected a little more materiality from an Upper Austrian colleague. I recognize the efforts of Mr Keck, who really had to find a formula until the last minute. Unfortunately, this obviously fails on both sides – whether on one side or on the other more or less, I let it down. Mr Gaßner, if you think that it would not be possible to exchange certain things about the media, I will give you the right. However, I should also like to remind you that in the media news, opinions, comments by Mr Ackerl, Mr Dobusch, the competent city council of Linz, were as clear as the reports and statements of my own, the ÖVP politician. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner]] Obviously the two sides have talked too little together, or in the city of Linz the problem is too little known and too little enforceable. The most important project of the city of Linz – and that’s it! – has only found few hearings in the Federal SPÖ. I still hope – and in positive terms – that we will find a common solution with an Asfinag project by the end of the budget consultation. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: So much for oil-in-fire pouring!]] I don't give up hope and believe in the motto: People come together by talking! I hope that the two government parties are aware of the serious situation, because it is unreasonable for the commuters from the Mühlviertel, for the anrainers in the city of Linz, for the traffic, for the industrial city of Linz, if there is not a solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21742	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-152 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on organ liability to the ÖBB. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Widmann, colleagues and colleagues on the use of additional income from the mineral oil tax for the financing of the A 26 Linz motorway – Westring Linz. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes may be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put their votes in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Widmann, ladies and gentlemen, voted in favour of putting “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21844	Thank you. The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e21879	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 146; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 43, No votes: 103. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Königshofer, Kunasek; Lausch, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Petzner, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosary; Gift, Spadiut, Stefan, Strutz; Tadler Erich; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Widmann Rainer, Winter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Brosz Dieter; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donnerbauer Heribert, strike-through; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hakl Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Hellerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Chapel, chapel, church gater, clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, head, crane, herbs, crystal, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Moser, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schatz, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schultes, Schüssel, Schwentner, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steinhauser, Steßl-Mühlbacher; Tamandl; Weninger, Windbühler-Souschill, Wöginger, Worm; Zinggl. [[20:36:23]] 29. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report, vol. 2009/6 (III-64/973 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22076	We're coming to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22104	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I should like to comment briefly on a very positive report, namely the report on the efficiency and quality of vocational education in Austria. Vocational education is an excellent educational model. The Court of Auditors calls it a best practice model for efficient training. There is a comprehensive quality management system, there are good facilities in schools, an efficient teaching company, and mostly a successful completion of the vocational school by young people. By the way, here is a note: Those who do not make it can increasingly rely on offers from the private side in recent times. I mention here, for example, the various forms of apprentice coaching that help young people create training as a skilled worker. However, when we look at the problem, we see that many young people are slowing down in vocational school by a few years because they have lost years in compulsory schools. The Court of Auditors estimates that the education system will be burdened with approximately €67 million. However, I would like to point out that it must be of great value to us that young people create training, because youth unemployment due to non-existent training is infinitely expensive, very dear ladies and gentlemen. Youth without training, without opportunities, without avoiding prospects, must also be worth something more. The Court of Auditors points out that there are many positive measures here. A success model is the teaching with Matura, but a success model is also the over-company training facilities that have been created, as well as vocational orientation courses. That's what a keyword has been made: In the field of vocational guidance, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a need for re-examination, especially in the AHS sector, and I would like to remind you that this vocational orientation in our schools is in the sense of training. We are still strengthening our youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22152	The next speaker was Dr Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22173	Mr President! High house! I do not concentrate so much on vocational schools now, but rather I have the ÖBB in mind and the advisory agreements, concerning which the Court of Auditors is well aware of the types of external advisory agreements. As you can read, one has changed the one advisory agreement with the office of Lansky in 2007, but in fact still remains. There is supposed to be even a side letter by which you can earn up to €2.9 million – without providing a performance – and the current Director-General has not managed to cancel this advisory agreement completely, but it is still – supposedly changed – in force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] But let's look at the vita of Mr. Lansky, gracious woman! May I remind you of 2006? 2006, remember? Gusenbauer, SPÖ candidate, campaigner, “Change 06”: [[New call for tender May. Worm]] Remember? Who was the boss of this club there? – Mr. Dr. Lansky has advertised for Mr. Gusenbauer! And, of course, Mr. Dr. Lansky also needed a co-compatriot: the competitor was Mr. Pelinka. Mr Kern has, of course, brought this as a press representative to the public, ladies and gentlemen. And that was supposed to be really fun: that former campaigners who know Mrs Bures best – she was then the Federal Managing Director... So, the leader of the Federal Government asked Mr. Lansky to vote for Mr. Gusenbauer, and now he is given an assignment to the ÖBBB, and Mr. Kern is not even able to cancel this order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] – Don't you think about it, Mrs. Colleague? You have to think about it! At Mr Pelinka it is then quite clear When Mr. Kern was confronted with this, he first said: [[Abg. Strache: Is this Mr Pelinka, who is now sitting in the Foundation Council?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – Later he was brought as a communication expert so that he had a job to do in the ORF – in the ORF! – to make pure party policy: Party policy leading the ORF to where it is on the journey, namely to the wall. You have to answer that, that has your party to answer! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] Mr President, unfortunately you have missed the appearance of Mrs Bures today. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Mr. Huber...!]] It has today announced to the House its visions of its transport policy. So I'm just telling you, the Court of Auditors will be required. The Court of Auditors will be required! After implementing what the lady has done today, you can employ several employees for it. [[Abg. Grosz: Nice, this coalition! ... how Christmas! You shoot yourself with Christmas...!]] So I'm just telling you, Mrs Bundesminister meant here, she's not talking to the countries anymore, she's making the planning, for example, of motorways. And she has just explained how this is with the various expansion lines at the Bundesbahn. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Huber!]] At the Federal Railway, Mrs Colleague, she explained to us, there are priority networks and no priority routes in the Trans-European Networks. [[Abg. May. Worm:... form Forests!]] And what does Mrs Bures do? – She invests hard on the non-priority networks and explains to us that brings jobs. I say to you that this is employment policy for machines that the lady does, and at the same time, it will consume the taxpayer's money in tunnels that no one needs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stache: Excellent speech!]] First of all, the coral tunnel is not an international network, second, its vision, as it has explained to us today, is that it dreams of the Adria-Balticum axis, and it explains to us that it has to expand the South Railway. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Tyrol... Brenner Base Tunnel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to do transport policy – and the Court of Auditors will probably have to worry about it – you should not build the most expensive routes, but the most efficient routes. And the steirs will also know – even if some consider the coral tunnel for the rescue – there is at best the sausage smelting effect, that is, the region has only something of it when it is built, because it is rented in there, otherwise this infrastructure project will not help too much. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes, who made the state agreement to the coral tunnel?]] I'm going to tell you free after Adenauer: You can get smarter and you can also change things. – And this is the task I expect from Mrs Bures, who should deal with the tax money in such a way that it is used efficiently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Who made the state contract?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I tell you, the great disappointment is for me Mr. Kern. Mr. Kern comes into office after 100 days and explains to everyone that the company ÖBB is pleading. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] That's where I ask you: Where were you, where was Mrs Bures, where was the Supervisory Board President? They have been responsible for the Austrian Federal Railways for four years, and he comes after 100 days and explains that the company is pleading. – You are responsible, therefore, with Mrs Bures, for the reference to the President of the Court of Auditors: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] He'll have a lot of work.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22403	The next speaker was Mr Kunasek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22424	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The mood is already heated up accordingly, that's good. Mr Maier has actually put the slide on a subject that I would like to address, namely the Koralm Tunnel. First of all, however, on the Court of Auditors' report: Thank you very much for the detailed report. As an apprentice speaker, I have, of course, looked at the chapter on labour market services and the fight against youth unemployment, and I have to say quite plainly that in this area there are abuses that are not of bad parents, for example, when we have to realize that there is €5.7 million in additional expenditure in the AMS Styria, because the rulers there have simply been badly managed and badly worked. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is in itself nothing bad to allow young people to be trained under the Youth Training Security Act, but I believe that some guidelines should also be observed as a labour market service. And if you make comparisons between the Styria, Upper Austria and Salzburg, then, as I said, you really didn't recognize the problem in the Styria. Tenders, which have been advertised all over the world, have not been addressed to regional circumstances and have in fact eliminated competition. A bidder consortium, which clearly comes from the red corner, has received the supplement here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a way of dealing with means of taxation. That's not how we imagine the liberals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At all events, the impression is that this measure is not about promoting youth, but about promoting institutions that are close to SPÖ. On a second chapter, on the ÖBB and on the external advisory services, Mr Haider will also say a few things: It's clear there's still a lot to do! The 2005 recommendations were only partially implemented. We expect and believe that savings potential for these external advisory services should also be implemented for important projects in the field of public transport. And with this I am with my previous speaker, so I am on a very important project for us Steirer, but also for Carinthia and for the whole southern region of Austria, namely the South Railway Project around the Koralm Tunnel. I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that the approval of this request should not be particularly difficult, especially as applications from the SPÖ go exactly in the same direction. Among other things, MEPs Heinzl, Stauber and Haberzettl only made a request this year “on ensuring the conformity of the contract with the implementation of the Koralmbahn”. There is also a request from Mr Bartenstein, which is almost correct. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, how does the Styrian population get, how do the Carinthians also get to get this essential infrastructure project because the Federal Government is unable to create a proper budget?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really call on everyone to vote in favour of this project – in a cross-group of all Members from Styria, from Carinthia. We owe this to our voters in Styria and Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22521	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22611	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22634	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Maier, you're right, you can be smarter – just practice it at all levels! I mean not only you personally, but also all the political groups. I am very conscious of the fact that I now put forward some oberösterreichische project, such as the Mühlkreisbahn et cetera, as a motion for a resolution on which we are to vote here. No, we should discuss Court of Auditors reports that clearly put their finger in the wound, for example, this large company, the ÖBB Group. I would like to return to the situation of consultant contracts. Let the sentence break on page 125 on the tongue: “With these payment and compensation agreements, ÖBB-Holding AG committed itself” – that was then, after amending the original contracts with Lansky –“, to a minimum. 2.90 million. EUR” – and now it’s coming –“, even if the law firm does not provide any services.” – Quotes. Thank you, I'd like to do that, without performance, €2.9 million. If you convert this into schilling, you get a double-digit million. This is how it is managed with our tax money! The report on the advisory contracts is already a follow-up report. He has already had a preliminary report, an initial report. And the initial report has entered the advisory situation under the black and blue government. We have happy origins that the consulting industry has been able to celebrate. It is only the filleting of the ÖBB structure that has given the lawyers a great deal of honor, the many division contracts; I am not talking about the advisory agreements that were concluded at the time. I know the first contract with Lansky was still under the form of forest. That was one who called Forstinger into office and who knew himself as Berliner in Austria and not at all with the ÖBB. And there was an easy thing to do as a consultant. But instead of finally drawing a final line after the Court of Auditors' first report, this Treaty will be extended under the aegis of Red-Black from 2006 onward, and also with this general rule: no benefit, even a money. I mean, it's not, ladies and gentlemen, because especially the ÖBB need every tax schilling in order to improve the overall offer for passengers. We're not talking about construction projects yet. In this discussion, they now attach importance to introducing construction projects. I can do that, too, just the problem is: If I am already so generous in the consulting agreements, how can I afford such generous construction projects? Only one aspect of the coral tunnel: Do you think it is wise for the Koralmbahn to be run far past Germanysberg, a district capital in Styria, that there is only a small stop there, where perhaps the ICE trains are just standing, called West Styria? A new route will be built, with billions – the Court of Auditors will check this again anyway; if you calculate the financing costs, it will certainly be between 6 and 8 billion – and then this train will not even lead to the county capital, but will drive through the Pampa into the black hole towards Klagenfurt. This planning alone shows how much housework there is, ladies and gentlemen. And I don't want to talk about that on an existing lan the Linz–Graz capital connection, an existing one, where there are tunnels, then the ÖBB no longer rides with ICE trains, then you can switch there. Mr President of the Court of Auditors, unfortunately, the future tasks of the Court of Auditors in the form of audits have already been prefigured by the infrastructural decisions that have been taken, which have reached the links of national capitals, which are now to be partially raised in priority TEN-ranges, while on the other hand – this has to be imagined! – Linz–Graz is already a priority! And on the priority route, there is no longer any long-distance traffic. They're all laughing! We can no longer put this in normal words, how reprehensible this infrastructure policy is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, I know only an excellent advisory agreement that the ÖBB should really enter into: Please take a simple, cheap traffic advisor from TU! It hardly costs anything because the opinions have already been drawn up. You just need to copy the opinions. Copy costs are the same as consultant costs, and with these consulting and copying costs, you could say goodbye to some billions of projects. This would save taxpayers a lot of money and, above all, promote the provision of millions for the timely financing of education, training and youth investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22716	The next speaker was Mr Grosz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22738	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs Moser, you just wished that the Koralmbahn pass through Deutschlandsberg or that there was a railway station in Germany. Apparently you are not informed. There has been this route planning. The route would lead on the trail of the old Graz-Köflacher Bahn to Germanysberg. This would mean that the high-performance Koralmbahn line leads through the Bundesschulzentrum Deutschlandsberg, through the Kindergarten at the Stiftungspark, to finally cut the Koralm through the leisure pool Hietlbad in the north of Germany and then under the castle of Deutschlandsberg with the Schilcherhangen, the Buschenschäken the Koralm. Mrs Moser, you would have been better informed before! The region from which I stem, that is, main square 17 in Germany, is very satisfied with the current route tour. It has been said by word of mouth on rail, and I am in favour of Mr Kunasek's request, which we will of course support. I don't know if he's particularly sensible. For if Mr Kunasek for the liberals here calls for expenditure for external consultants to be used for the Koralm tunnel in the future – that was €16.25 million in 2007 – then I must tell him that I get a worse underpass and a better railway crossing. I will not be able to close the Graz–Klagenfurt route, a project of over €5.2 billion. If you try to devote €16.25 million to the construction of the coral tunnel here, we will not finance it, but of course we support the request. But again: It's not even 30 meters of rail that we'll build with it. We will need a little more, including political energy here. in the National Council, so that we do not experience what honourable Member Maier finally made in his remarkable speech: First, he gave a speech in opposition style. I looked at it more than he reported: still as an ÖVP speaker, which has surprised me anyway. Tears of resentment and joy have come to my eyes, as he has rightly condemned these processes around the SPÖ and their consulting agreements here, from Lansky to MAV Cargo and the role of Pöchhacker. But then what did Mr Maier do? . He said that one should actually think about the coral tunnel – under the advocacy of the Styrian representatives of the ÖVP. Nothing else he said. That is why there is still a lot of initiatives on the Koralm Tunnel, whether this is the initiative of Mr Kunasek, whether these are our initiatives – by Stefan Petzner, by Martina Schenk, by me – and by many others here in Parliament and in Carinthia, which form a strong south axis. On the report itself: Mr Maier, you are perfectly right – double-emphasised, exclamation marks – because just as the SPÖ has awarded advisory contracts within the ÖBB, some orders are being made in Freemason loggers. This is the same pattern, the same system as has been done here within the ÖBB. The highlight, comrades and silent Mr Haberzettl, the secret Director-General of the ÖBB and ruler of this disastrous company, which is being driven to the wall, is the highlight of a 7 million-€ advisory and lobbying mission for a company in Hungary consisting of two persons: a certain woman Gulya and a Mr. Gulya, mother and son, in order to make in this way lubrication payments and possibly hidden party financing as an Austrian company in Hungary that one could buy this disastrous financial Hintelstein, the MAV Cargo, which has now become the millstone for the ÖBB. Mr Haberzettl, honourable Member, “gratulate” on this “foresight”, to award an order worth €7 million to a dubious lobbying company. This process, this criminal procedure, which is now the subject of judicial investigations in Hungary and which will certainly also lead to consequences in the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors of the ÖBB, will of course also be the subject of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, because it is clear that a management of the ÖBB, which also includes you as a indexer, can allow 7 million euros to be pumped into a corrupt system, a corrupt company in Hungary, and to the suspicion that illegal party funding has been done here to a large Austrian party in the run-up to a large election, by chance in that city. That's what we're going to explain, and I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22795	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22816	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, on the content of your speech, I certainly do not say anything, but I am deeply convinced that in your speech to Mrs Minister you have made a major mistake and that this requires an excuse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I should like to come to my point, and I have devoted myself to the topic of the AMS Upper Austria, Styria and Salzburg on measures to combat youth unemployment. There is a detailed report from the Court of Auditors, but unfortunately also from a period which is already very, very far behind, namely from 2005 and 2006. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] An innovation on over-company training has already been made in 2008, where this whole legislative matter, which has been criticized in the Court of Auditors' report, has been re-established and many suggestions and recommendations from the Court of Auditors have been taken into account, such as the uniform compensation in the first, second and third years, the possibility of ending the teaching, standardized lists of participants and enhanced vocational orientation measures. This is a very important point, because there is still the traditional career choice among young people, and I am convinced that it is very important that the labour market service works closely with schools and also with parents. You just have to be quite honest, too: It cannot be said that the labour market service and all the institutions will then be called upon to reduce deficits that have been set up for years in a course of perhaps three months. This won't work, because you have to think about something else in advance. I think that a lot of new things have happened with this new law, on the basis of and on the basis of many suggestions made by the President of the Court of Auditors, and this creates a good new development, and it is always working on it. We shall therefore take note of this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22865	Mr Obernosterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22886	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I too am talking about external advisory services for the ÖBB, whose costs have been exploded. By 2005 they made up € 25.7 million and then reduced again to € 16.25 million by 2007. I would like to say a few words about this long-term consultation agreement with a certain law firm: As an economic operator, I understand that you sometimes make long-term contracts with certain companies in order to simply get better conditions. The fact that there are fixed amounts for services that are not provided is a bit extraordinary when you see that 34 percent of the total amount has been lowered in the first year, i.e. you have just come over these €2.9 million guaranteed as a fixed amount. But what I don't understand at all – and the Court of Auditors has also complained – is that this contract, which is also charged over hourly rates, is between 15 and 30 percent above the rates that the ÖBB receives when they hand over other law firms orders. As has been said, long-term contracts are intended to improve conditions. I do not understand why a long-term agreement, which was concluded by 2017, is more expensive than a short-term agreement, but I must say that if I refer to the links which Mr Maier has referred to before. I have no understanding of this, but I can understand it. Such procedures shall be stopped in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22925	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e22947	Madam President. Mr President. High house! Without exception, all but really all the Court of Auditors' reports relating to the ÖBB are indeed a moral picture of this Republic. Mr President, you should really consider setting up a permanent branch, an office of the Court of Auditors at the ÖBB. This would pay off and would also save many of your auditors ways they will have to take to check the ÖBB in the next few years. What is the point of external advisory services? There was a report from the Court of Auditors in 2005, which criticised the fact that €18 million has been spent in advisory services, although 120 lawyers, of which 70 are housed in nine legal departments, are employed by the ÖBB itself. And now we have to do with the follow-up review, and this follow-up review has resulted in the result that the effort for this has now been reduced to € 14 to 16 million instead of € 18 million, so there has been almost no reduction at all, and that a special law firm, namely the law firm Lansky, as it has already been mentioned several times, has received a long-term advisory agreement of € 4.5 million, with the guarantee to get at least € 2.9 million paid, even if no services are provided at all by the ÖBB if no services are received from lawyers Lansky and partners at all. This follow-up review shows us very clearly, the track has become a self-service shop for red freelancers. And, Mr Maier, this is not without it, nor for the ÖVP: The 100 000 € honor for Mr. Saxinger for his work as Deputy Supervisory Board Chief can also be questioned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the ÖBB, tax money is continuously burned, and tens of thousands of counterparts are in traffic jams every day in Linz, because the Westring is not and is not built. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it is really a transparent and pitiful double game that you have delivered here today. Mr Gaßner, you were mayor in Schwerberg, which is located in the east of Linz, as far as I know, in the Mühlviertel. It's about the West Ring! I can tell you one thing: In 1977, as a ten-year-old gymnasiast in the post-bus, when I went to the school in Linz, I was standing in this traffic jam for the first time. And then, in 1977, it was called, now the fourth Danube bridge will soon be built. That was nothing new in the 77s. Since 1977, you have been planning – or much longer, of course, for 40 years there has been this project. And it would have been easy for you to explain to your Federal Minister, your Minister of Transport, that this project, which is now available here, she says, has to be re-dimensioned, that is too big, because we need a smaller project, already the speculated project. The whole northern part of this project is missing! All the state and city politicians – I do not want to praise the red and black state and city politicians for their far-sightedness – have always asked the federal government: Is it okay now? Can we plan it like that? Is this funding? – That's why it's already redimensional. If she goes here now, she says: Let's make a country road out of it, you know what that means? This is a new project. This is a delay of at least 30 to 40 years. And that's really ugly, that's double-duty! Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23011	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23032	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Maier, whom I very much appreciate as a specialist, has today shot a bit beyond the goal. A gentleman does not do this in the division he has addressed to Mrs Bures. I note that we may have something to learn in this form together. Just one, ladies and gentlemen: When you call into the forest like that, you should not wonder if it comes out similarly. However, we will try to keep ourselves in check, and I will make a different choice when discussing the item I have selected for myself, although it is about the party president of the ÖVP and the Finance Minister. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for their work, which, in the follow-up review on energy taxation, has revealed to the Ministry of Finance that all the relevant objections and proposals of the Court of Auditors have passed. That is, one has ignored that, and that has cost the taxpayer, ultimately the state, the “littleness ” of € 580 million. However, it should be noted positively: A new procedure has been chosen for 2011, i.e. for the next budget. So-called service companies will no longer be able to claim the energy refund. “Doing good” is the next approach. The procedure was so complicated that the officials of the Ministry of Finance were so overburdened that they could not control at all and simply credited everything in the form that was stated. I hope that you will get under control in the near future, because the state cannot give up on these millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23066	Mrs Mag. Mulder is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23087	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In the follow-up review of the control of illegal foreign employment, the Court acknowledged that a majority of the recommendations from the 2005 report had been implemented in full or in part. These are concerned with staff representation, overtime arrangements and the organisation of central coordination bodies. Progress or widespread implementation has been achieved in the use of the databases. An improvement is still to be sought, particularly in the case of the increase in the share of external service. In the years 2004 to 2008, there was only a slight improvement in control from 29 percent to 30 percent, as measured by the total working time. I am of course aware of the social dimension of illegal employment and have tried to get a realistic current picture of this situation in dialogue with the authorities concerned. I would like to present this briefly in an example. There has been an anonymous announcement that a large number of illegal construction workers are working on a construction site in Vienna. The KIAB with the competent authority, in the case of the security guard, has become effective immediately. Today, as required in the Court of Auditors' report, the KIAB will act immediately within 28 days, if necessary, in serious cases, as in this case. It was initially observed for three days, and it was then possible to find 30 illegally employed workers on the third day at the construction site. This case, of course, also has a social and human dimension. The workers received € 5 per hour for 10 hours per day and a total of six days per week. The employment firm has been indicated in accordance with the Ausländer Arbeitsgesetz, as well as under the Social Insurance Act. A fine of several hundred thousand euros has been requested. The farmer has been designated in accordance with the Social Fraud Act, and the construction workers have thus been shown the way to enforce the open claims. I think, in total, one can say that KIAB works very well, especially in Vienna, that it is well informed about construction sites, about construction plants. It reacts very quickly with all the authorities, and the control takes place at all times of the day, including weekends, and across the board, which, as I believe, is also very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23129	Mrs Schönpass is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23151	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors criticised the conclusion of an advisory agreement between ÖBB Holding AG with a law firm. The order volume, as we already heard, was € 4.5 million, the contract was concluded by 2017. The ÖBB had accepted very unfavourable terms of the contract, as we already heard in detail and blatantly. At the Court of Auditors Committee meeting, Director General Core and Supervisory Board Chairman Pöchhacker informed us that the total cost of the ÖBB for external advisory services could be reduced again in the following years after the peak in 2005. Half of these costs are planned for 2011. The ÖBB also wants to make these costs as transparent as possible. A framework agreement with the financial procuratorship has also been concluded. This offers the ÖBB favourable conditions for legal advice. Only in exceptional cases do the ÖBB want to resort to other consultants. I hope that these positive approaches will be pursued and that the Court of Auditors' recommendations will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23190	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-64 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on the use of savings in external advisory services by the ÖBB Group on the construction of the Koralm Tunnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request does not find the majority and is rejected. [[21:16:41]] 30. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2009/12 (III-96/974 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23248	We're coming to 30. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Lapp is the first one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23276	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I would like to focus on justice in my contribution. This Court of Auditors report also deals with the duration of proceedings in civil court proceedings. It was found that the duration of proceedings in district courts was between 3.5 and 15.3 months, in national courts between 12.8 and 20 months. The Court of Auditors noted that there has been a little streamlined judicial procedure, that organisational conditions are also in very many cases in need of improvement. For example, the establishment of service centers as a central point of contact would bring relief from the law firms. This has already been carried out in one case and has been promised by the judicial unit also for various other areas in Austria. The use of IT also improves the duration of the procedure, facilitates and, above all, faster handling, because it is true that the case law in our country should also be better and more efficiently handled for those people who want to speak right. Writing pools are also called on from the Court of Auditors to speed up the implementation and settlement of procedures. In response to the Court of Auditors' report, the Ministry of Justice has expected that there will be a focus on training for judges in the streamlined management of proceedings, that there will also be improved expert management in order to reduce the duration of the proceedings. A follow-up review by the Court of Auditors in this area would certainly be interesting, because the efficiency of justice is an essential pillar in our state.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23318	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23339	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present Court of Auditors report on the Vienna lines shows how public infrastructure has been carried out unprofessionally and negligently. I thank the Court of Auditors for showing this. During the expansion phase of U1 and U2, he examined three construction phases and there are four serious points to be noted: First, that there have been additional costs of € 9 million in total, Secondly, that there have been additional costs for the federal government of €3.09 million just by shifting the benefits, thirdly, there has not even been an internal control system, and fourthly, the overall impression is that there is a sum of errors in the commercial duty of care. Much is simply not understandable in the records and even in the evidence. Saving potential was simply not used, offers were not carefully examined, and the quality of the offer review was inadequate. The control of the contract processing and construction clearance was inefficient. There were, I think, also very strong balances and differences. In the case of additional orders and construction costs, easy progress was made, and approvals were often granted afterwards. This report does not have the dimension of the ÖBB report, but it is nevertheless very important how we deal with the construction of public infrastructure. I don't think it can be taken into account for the federal government money that actually has the city of Vienna and the Vienna lines. Two, three things are positive: that was done in time and that Mrs. Federal Minister Bures has announced in the report that she will also recover these €3 million. I hope that these funds, which have been incorrectly used, will also be recovered. I would like and hope that, on the basis of this Court of Auditors report, the extension of U 2 lessons will not happen again so that such things, especially as a public institution, should have a role as a model for public infrastructure in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23399	Mr Zanger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23420	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! We're at the last chapter this evening, and I'm dedicated to myself. Now the promotion of sport, which is very clearly set out in this report and which also shows very clearly what is in general lack of funding in Austria. The report speaks of transparency, of double and triple funding to the various umbrella and professional associations. The fact is: If today a small club, a football club, a sports club, whatever the club, wants to build a sports venue, then he first turns to the community, there he gets a little promotion, then to the country, there he gets a bit of promotion, further to the football association, there he gets a bit of funding again, and what do I know who else – and that is the root of all the evils in the entire funding area in Austria! I'll remind you again: If we total almost €12 billion – €7.7 billion above the federal government and €4.4 billion above the countries – in order to spend around 5% of our GDP per year, this is a sum above the double of the EU average. There's a lot to be done. I believe that the entire system of support should be researched, rethinked and redesigned. It is always about transparency: Who receives what?, because nothing is easier than to operate over double and triple rail clientele policy, as the big fractions do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Individual programmes, which were supported, for example, were the football challenge 2008, a funding programme that the Austrian football national team should have brought to the quarter finals at the European Championship; it did not succeed. The lack of operational objectives was due and also lack of support. One of the major issues is – and it is not yet solved – that the promoters are the beneficiaries at the same time, because these persons are equal in coverage. Those who decide to forward promotions are those who are also sitting at the top of the large sports associations. Mr Wittmann and Mr Haubner know that they are with them themselves. In the course of the debate in the Committee, I turned to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security on how far his working group, which he set up to evaluate sport promotion, has been involved. He said in a parliamentary reply that results on this reform group should be available by the end of 2010. He also promised that Parliament's parties would be involved in the reform debate in good time. This has not happened until now, and I assume that no results will be available by the end of 2010. Obviously one wants to wait a little while longer to play a bit of promotion. We're going to catch up, because 2010 is soon over, and I'm going to assume that nothing has changed in the promotion of sports. Thank you for this report, Mr President, and thank you to the entire team in your home.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23480	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23502	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is now about mobile communications, it is about the Vienna lines, it is about harmonizing train safety. - Three more topics which have been discussed in the The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their rights in the event of a breach of Community law is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. Let's perhaps start with the nearest one, with the Vienna lines. Construction costs have yet to a large extent occurred, although the Vienna lines already have massive experience in metro construction. – But no, it has been put money into the sand, it has been partially depreciated, it has been built overly expensive, and the experiences you should actually have are not involved in the development of the expansion of U 1 and U 2. I mean, it is a little laborious if you have to read these cardinal errors which have been committed before in the Court of Auditors reports again and again on current projects. Similarly, these two reports deal with the ÖBB investments. I'm just taking out the ETCS train safety system now. It is in itself a central task at European level to harmonise the railway sector: from operation, from power on the one hand, from the personnel specifications on the other, but from technology, the security systems, on the third side. The EU has ETCS Level 2. It has, so to speak, recognized the radio-based train safety system as the future system, long before the ÖBB was only strategic in this direction. Now there is a danger that parts of the Austrian rail network with ETCS Level 1 – this is still equipped with balises, i.e. partly by mechanical means – will be equipped and the other part with ETCS Level 2, where we will be slightly dependent on Level 2. Switzerland is generally at this level, and the Germans too are going in this direction. The ÖBB – which the Court of Auditors has also clearly pointed out – should first of all start strategic work and, secondly, advance the current technology, say Level 2, and thirdly, even in the tendering process, a little more comprehensive and more serious and, above all, a little more detailed. Finally, because the speaking time is relatively short, on the question of mobile equipment and mobile telephone procurement. It's not carnival yet, although the ball season has already begun, but imagine more than 8,000 mobile phones ordered by the ÖBB found their way into private hands, have simply been turned off from the ÖBB stock, has been used privately! The person responsible for this did not even have to face a service procedure because he had been able to terminate before. – That’s how it looks with responsibilities, and that’s how it looks with consequences, namely, with consequences that this company has suffered on the occasion of this abuse, actually fraud! But there is one, two other dimensions. Second dimension: Which mobile phone system is used directly by the ÖBB? A 1, says Telekom Austria, says Rudolf Fischer, who is also on the board of directors of the ÖBB. You have it for years – for years! – to avoid awarding competitors to tender, even though they were often best bidders to keep the loyalty of Telekom Austria and A 1, and for years old mobile communications contracts have been maintained which have led to increased costs for the ÖBB, which ran towards the rest of the ÖBB. Unfortunately, this was also noted by the Court of Auditors. There have been consequences, but not to the extent necessary. The last point on mobile phone issues is the question of reception and equipment on the train. Here, too, it has been missed from the ÖBB, if you already make it possible to conduct cell phone calls on the train, so that you really take several operators into the design of the network, so that there is a wider coverage at the same cost. – I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for their detailed work. On the other hand, I would like to address all the appeals: If you're already calling the phone on the train, please on the corridor and not that other people are harassed, because that's really a disease that's wasting your life and moving! [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Großruck]] It's interesting: It has been scientifically proven that we are extremely stressed if we can only follow half of a conversation. And when we call, we always get half the phone calls, and that means people who want to read who want to talk are permanently distracted and disturbed during their actual activity on the train. Perhaps this could have been taken into account in the Court of Auditors' report when it comes to illuminating the mobile communications situation at ÖBB. We also need rest zones, zones such as the Deutsche Bundesbahn, where phone calls are not made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23568	Ladies and gentlemen, that was a good word. The same applies to the meetings of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, wonderful!]] The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23613	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that a report of the Court of Auditors, which has given rise to investigations by the public prosecutors today, is so close that it stands at the end of the agenda, is already a strong piece and speaks volumes! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Transparency and control are obviously two areas to which you attach only final importance. This report on the extension work on the U1 and on the U2 is a very special treat. The report on the work in the Taborstraße U2 section is particularly interesting. The Court of Auditors notes that: “The ratio between the excavating material to be disposed of and the volume charged for the construction of tunnels (...) was implausible and physically impossible.” [[Abg. May. Stadler: Clearly you can't say it anymore!]] However, it was easily possible to provide an account of €1.1 million for these works, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. € 1.1 million! Today, the representatives of the government parties have fully motivated in the current hour that our BZÖ initiative would have no content, no savings potential and no solutions. Apart from the fact that this is not at all true – here, please, 1,1 million €, which could have been used usefully, could have been saved and with which you could have done something meaningful if you had been properly reckoned, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors and his staff very much for the reports which unfortunately do not come to the attention of Parliament. I would therefore like once again – and I have done so today – to ask the President, the Presidents of the Bureau, who are asking club members to ensure that Court of Auditors reports are put forward so that taxpayers can also have a debate on a report on the Court of Auditors on television and see how their tax money is handled, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23675	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be prepared if the House agrees that I am preparing the agenda against the Club's proposals. [[Congratulations and yes-no-no-nothing at BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You have the fullest consent!]] [[Abg. Mr Jarolim: I think the President does not want to do so either.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23726	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors' report on the review of the duration of the procedure in civil law proceedings is also being discussed today. It is very gratifying that a very, very good witness has been given in international comparison among 28 states of Austria. According to the Court of Auditors report, Austria is in fifth place in the ranking. I should like to congratulate the judicial administration on this. The average duration of civil proceedings until the first instance was 8.6 months for the District Courts in 2007, 16.3 months for the national courts. However, it must be noted that there are considerable differences between the individual courts: a scatter between 3.5 and 15.3 months in district courts, between 12.8 and 20 months in national courts. There is, of course, the question of the causes. On the one hand, these are procedures arising from road accidents and general claims for damages and guarantees. Interesting are also the appeal rates that play a role in this: 30 percent of the district courts, around 76 percent of the state courts. Procedures involving experts also take twice as long as others; the duration between the conclusion of the negotiations and the presentation of judgments is, of course, also important for this. When assessing the causes, it can be seen that a number of causes are not inherently related to the administration of justice, but are in the field of independent judges and experts. The judicial administration has already set up a number of measures, I am counting: electronic business registers, control reports as a basis for service supervision measures, now also a mature internal revision. There is also a process-time statistics, but unfortunately without cause statistics. The personnel management has also been adapted accordingly. There are, of course, also appropriate recommendations from the Court of Auditors, for example after a more stringent procedure. The fact that there should be an appropriate expert management has already been developed at the time. There should also be a clear observation of long procedures. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I am convinced that, taking into account the Court of Auditors' suggestions and the measures already taken by the judicial administration, the Austrian judicial administration will be able to make the most of the international summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23780	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23801	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I too would like to address the Vienna lines. For me, the Court of Auditors' report reads like an economic crime, it can be said. There have already been problems in the tendering process, in the award of tenders, in the examination of tenders. For example, speculative bid prices have not been recognised during the offer review. In the case of additional orders, laws have been circumvented and internal directives have been disregarded. There was no effective control either. After the city of Vienna, the BMVIT and the BMF had ensnared in competence uncertainties, the control was simply not given. As a result, however, there were double-payments, which were even paid. Furthermore, money was donated, there were fees in the order of over €60,000 that were not charged. There were also delays in construction due to incompetence. In any authority or office there was a declaration of expropriation for six months. What I still noticed as a technician and perhaps it is very difficult for the Court of Auditors to consider: I am convinced that the planning quality for this project does not meet the technical standard. If I have an increase of more than 1,000 percent in construction positions – and that is the eight of which are documented in the report – then I have to say, the planner has not been very intensive about the project. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My request to the Court of Auditors – even if it is difficult to clarify the planning phase more precisely in the future – especially with regard to the new government in Vienna between red and green, which has announced that the public authorities are being massively expanded – and there is certainly also the metro – to ensure that in the future the quality of handling of tax funds will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23851	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23874	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! A chapter of this Court of Auditors report refers to mobile phone equipment and mobile phone procurement at ÖBB. It is true that, although there were relatively few millions of decisions, there have been totally reckless and insidious decisions. For example, € 4.36 million was spent on improving the mobile reception of trains – and this only worked on a 300-km-long section from Vienna to Salzburg. And like the “driving”, 8 597 mobile phones that should have been delivered to ÖBB staff have disappeared! A very “smart” railway worker has ordered by fax and without signature mobile phones at the mobile com in the years 2002 to 2005 and – you have to imagine that! – distributed to other employees, possibly even sold and so on. But: This employee was not even paid ad – let alone that anything else would have happened! This ÖBB employee has just quit; probably now he works in sales for the mobile com, because he has done best services for them. Each individual audit by the Court of Auditors at ÖBB reveals inconceivable conditions. This is an enormous economic damage that has arisen there and arises! In addition: There is money being deducted for important infrastructure projects in other areas! And here I am again at the Linzer Westring, for which obviously the money is missing that is juxtaposed at the ÖBB. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, it was really a sad spectacle when, after the debate on Mr Neubauer's motion for a deadline, you came out here with hanging shoulders to vote, because you are not just allowed to speak in this House as you would like – and you must not even vote as you would probably like! That, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you will have to explain in Upper Austria. Then I praise the ÖVP: The ÖVP has a very clear line with regard to the West Ring; they do not fall down, for: The colleagues from the Upper Austrian ÖVP have been on the ground from the very beginning as far as the Linz Westring is concerned. They can't fall by any more! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are in shame at the very Upper Austria: You give yourself at home in battle – yes, Mr. Wöginger, you give yourself at home in battle, stand at the head of resistance against Bures, challenge the march against Vienna – and then when you are in Vienna, the air goes out and you are running on the ground! [[Abg. Wöger: You're a big deal!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] You, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are here in Vienna on the belly in front of the Minister for Transport! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But don't worry: We liberals will make sure that people in Upper Austria learn how to pull in the tail of the ÖVP here in Vienna. You can rely on that! [[Abg. Wöginger: Can you talk, too, or can't you?]] I am really excited, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, how You will be acting if we call for a nominal vote in the budget when it comes to the transport chapter. You don't come out of duty – I promise you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23963	The President of the Court of Auditors spoke. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e23984	Madam President. High house! Allow me to begin by thanking you for the positive words that have also been found by you in these 22 reports on the agenda today. I would also like to thank the fact that these reports have been dealt with very strongly by you in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. In this context, I would like to thank you and return to the beginning of today's debate, where the Court of Auditors' competence in examining communities has been extended. You have expressed your recognition of the Court of Auditors' auditing activity, but also that it is recognised in the interests of the local authorities that the communities have an impact and that they are important. In fact, if we want to achieve fiscal consolidation in Austria, or if we also want to give the communities the means necessary to enable them to fulfil their tasks, it should be noted that demographic development is particularly affected by the communities, particularly in the field of care, in the field of education, in the field of health. It should also be noted that there is currently no transparency as to whether the transfer income is covered by the transfer expenditure and that some of the transparency is not given to ensure that the municipal council can actually exercise its control authority. It would therefore be important for the municipalities to make the transfer flows more visible in the future and allow the municipalities to check objectively to what extent their tasks are covered by revenue. And last but not least, it would be important for the credibility of the community's activities that transparency is given to local citizens as regards the setting of fees or that the economy can also be aware that fees have been determined cost-effectively and not over-examination – and that it is not possible to carry out cross-financing in other areas. Again: Thank you very much for this recognition. A closer look at the RH reports on today’s agenda shows that there is a great deal of potential for introducing measures in the framework of an administrative reform to ensure that the money is more efficient, closer to citizens and more timely with those affected. This shows, for example, the Austro control, where it has been putting on for years the three weather services in Austria. These have not been grouped together: In the meantime, there are four weather services in Austria, with two weather services, which are 100% owned by the federal government, still competing each other when it comes to a contract such as the ASFINAG! A benchmark check makes you safe here, too, because: When considering the EUROCONTROL Member States, it is shown that the weather services have a share of the total cost of 5 to 6 percent, while in Austria they account for 12 to 15 percent, so the cost share is more than twice as high. In Austria, it was not possible to use these rationalisation potentials, already calculated at the time – they could account for up to €35 million. Today, the honourable Member’s herbs have also addressed the area of the ÖBB’s financing operations, and it should be noted that the Court of Auditors has clearly stated that the ÖBB Board of Directors in this area has largely disregarded their due diligence; Carry-out obligations, which are clearly necessary; they have also violated the share law. It was also significant that on 11 May, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In November 2005, ÖBB Supervisory Board Chairmans were informed orally by the Holding Boards after the Boards had previously taken the decision that precisely this business should not have been completed due to the threat potential. Nevertheless, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, regardless, has held that one should inform the Supervisory Board in a short version of these transactions. ==References== In November 2005, an extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting took place, but it was not about these financial transactions, but about ‘call-damaging public statements’, which is certainly still in the memory of Mr Haberzettl. Before this ao Supervisory Board meeting, a discussion should have taken place between the capital representatives and the ÖBB Financial Board. In any case, a file note made three years later, i.e. in 2008; the contents of this file note also did not correspond to the facts: wrong and incorrect, because essential circumstances were left out. Moreover, this document note was irrelevant from the point of view of share law, because it was crucial how the Supervisory Board was informed; even in this case it was not entirely. ==References====External links== A Supervisory Board meeting took place on December 1, 2005, a month later, at which the Board of Directors informed the Supervisory Board; however, no reference was made to the Supervisory Board on the part of the Board of Directors: neither with regard to the risks of this business, nor with regard to the conclusion without the approval of the Executive Board, with regard to the infringement of the corporate rules or the need for post-negotiations; but it was only pointed out that the attempt to diversify risks was supposedly made. In other words, even in December 2005, the ÖBB Supervisory Board was misinformed and incorrectly informed, so that in this case a violation of the § 255 Shares Act is very likely to be considered. It would therefore be necessary, especially if transactions were made in such a way, to draw the necessary consequences in order to achieve credibility and at the same time to ensure that a behaviour which is necessary in the case of a close-to-state company is used in order to make optimal use of tax money in the final consequence. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, BZÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] The fact that this is not the case shows, not least, the results of the tests on mobile phone equipment at the ÖBB, on the ÖBB services, on the Vienna lines or on the private railways, where no controls were carried out, which could be expected. In other areas, especially in the area of the implementation of the care allowance, it shows how fragmented the competences are currently in Austria. This is also evident in the audit where the Court of Auditors has examined the ÖBB service company or the railways' insurance institution. It should be noted that, for example, pensioners who had increased protection of termination during the active period, the ÖBB service company, pensioners who had no increased protection of termination in active periods, the railways' insurance institution, and the respective federal state – depending on their residence – is responsible for the activity. This shows how necessary it would be to take action in particular in the area that the care allowance can also be targeted and actually used in accordance with the needs. [[General condolences.]] Finally, it should be noted how important it would be to implement measures in the field of support. Sport promotion is a model example of the fact that this is not the case at present. 26 percent of the resources of the sports clubs are spent on the application and the promotion process, with up to five funding decisions to be made for the promotion process until the money reaches the club. This is also a fact that indicates that there is a great deal of support and that it would be possible to save money through a reform in the area through greater transparency and at the same time increase its impact. I would therefore like to thank you once again, if you would also like to help implement the recommendations, and would also like to point out: Without structural reforms, it will not be possible to lead the budget within the meaning of the strategy report or stability programme towards achieving a balanced budget over the economic cycle – an objective set by the Federal Government itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e24101	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-96 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:52:38]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-11-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00083_d7e24139	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were made for 1335/A(E) to 1344/A(E). Questions 6857/J to 6897/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 21.53 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
