ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12243	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 53. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament The official protocols of 49. Meeting of 10. ==References====External links== Meeting of 11. In December 2009, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Faul, Katzian, Fürntrath-Moretti, Kickl, Mag are reported as prevented. Brunner and Dr. Van der Bellen. [[09:07:08]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12277	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice from Mrs Mag. Dr. Beatrix has renounced Karl's mandate and, in her place, has been appointed to the National Council by Dr. Franz-Joseph Huainigg. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mrs Hagenhofer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12319	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12340	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12356	I warmly welcome Mr Dr. Huainigg in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:08:07]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12383	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 26. January 2010, Zl. 210.0/10/1-BEV/2010, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Johannes HAHN has removed from the Office. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the Ao. University professor Mag. Dr Beatrix KARL appointed Federal Minister for Science and Research.” Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12413	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer is represented by the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger. Before we get to the current hour, let me say a few words, which, as I think, should be very important to all of us. Our all participation is the suffering of Haiti's population. It is a command of the hour that we not only transmit our oral participation to the population of Haiti, but it is also a command of the hour to help. I have therefore allowed myself to have two boxes of donations put in place in Parliament by “Neighbor in distress”. These gift boxes will be in Parliament by the end of March. I am looking for you and invite you all to participate actively in the donation first and to motivate your employees, but also the people who visit us in the house, to do so. I think we can send a good signal with this. At this point I can very much thank the Austrian people for their generosity for the people in Haiti. [[General condolences.]] [[09:10:51]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12483	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Austria on course – point landing of the Minister of Finance in the implementation of the budget’ The meeting will be held live by ORF until 1 p.m. First of all, Mr Dr. Stummvoll has spoken. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12513	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Our country was facing the biggest economic challenge for many decades as a result of a global financial crisis, which nobody could expect worldwide. Policy in Austria has responded very quickly under the leadership of the Minister of Finance. In order to stabilise the financial markets and protect the “small” savers, we have chained a bank package. I am still glad today that a unanimous decision by the National Council is in place here. We have tied two economic packages, we have chained two labour market packages – strong impulses for the economy. Thus, this served on the one hand stabilisation, on the other, as an impulse for the economy. The result can be seen! Austria today stands far better than the majority of European countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister, congratulations on this success! Some key figures to support this thesis that we are better off than most of the other EU countries, I would like to mention. First point: Economic growth. Despite a painful fall by 3.4 percent, we were also better here than the others, ladies and gentlemen. In the eurozone, the drop was minus 4 percent, and in our neighbouring country, Germany was even minus 5 percent. Second characteristic, ladies and gentlemen, is the labour market. Of course, the famous sentence: Every unemployed person is too much! However, an unemployment rate of just over 5 percent at an unemployment rate of almost 10 percent in the euro area and thus the third lowest unemployment rate in the EU in Denmark and Holland is a success for growth and employment in Austria. Again: Mr Finanzminister, congratulations on this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third key is the budget, today's theme. In the budget a minus of 3.5 per cent was foreseen, exactly this minus of 3.5 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! I remember – Lutz Weinzinger, you were one of them too! – as has been the case here in the debate on the budget of the opposition horror reports. – Werner Kogler also belonged to that! – It was called: The budget won't hold! The budget is based on incorrect data! The forecasts do not vote, so a swindle budget and so on! – I did this in the documentation, I looked at it in the stenographic protocols. My friend Werner Kogler was one of the main speakers, as was Lutz Weinzinger and Martin Strutz. You can read all of this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You should read correctly!]] I agree with you, Mr Kogler: They seem to have been in the best society! The Monetary Fund forecasted a negative 4.2 percent in September, the EU said in September: minus 4.3 percent. A certain Mr Krugman, his Nobel laureate, saw Austria in front of the pleite. Ladies and gentlemen, they were all just as close to the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] You do not need my advice, Mrs Colleague, but let me say one thing: Leave In the future, if you are less dependent on Nobel Prizewinners outside the Atlantic, you would rather trust this Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Despite these successes, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to admit that 2010 will be a key year and perhaps the even greater challenge than the fight against crises. Crisis reduction has meant: I quote Hans-Werner Sinn, head of the Munich Ifo Institute, who overpowered it, there was no alternative that all the countries of the world would have used public debt as a means of combating the crisis. – That’s very pointed, but it’s right in the core. Of course, that can't be permanent. There was no alternative, but we have to do everything we can to screw it back. Debts are spent future, and no one here in this room, I believe, can account for the fact that that leaf-maker becomes reality, which a few months ago a business magazine wrote, namely: ‘The deceived generation’. Our children and grandchildren were meant to be. No one can answer this. Therefore, budget consolidation after growth impulses is the next major challenge. I would like to admit that it is likely that a trapezoid will be necessary to determine: When is the transition from growth impulses to budget consolidation? This is a very delicate and difficult question, namely content and time. We know that the EU's Finance Ministers agreed that consolidation should take place in 2011. – Right, we are also of this opinion! I am very glad that the government has taken a decision on a budget path this week in the Council of Ministers until 2013. That is quite, very important, because – once again! – nobody can account for the fact that our children once stood there as a treacherous generation because we did not solve the problems. Budget consolidation is therefore a very important concern. This budget path, ladies and gentlemen, foresees that we will be expected to reach 2.7 percent from this year's deficit to 4.7 percent by 2013. This means a total saving of almost €6 billion each year, about €2 billion less compared to the previous year. This is a huge challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember the end of the 1980s and the mid-1990s! At that time we faced similar figures. That means it's an incredibly big challenge, a tremendous effort, but that's feasible. [[Abg. Oils: Education reform!]] We already have that in the late 1980s – I do not know if you were here at the time, Mr Oellinger! – and brought together in the mid-1990s exactly in the same order. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Since 86 demands...!]] I'll tell you one thing before you become populist and demagogical: Saving does not mean saving at the expense of health, does not mean saving at the expense of education, but means using the means of health to provide education efficiently! This is the challenge: efficient use of resources, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me say one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. We will do everything we can to comply with the deadlines set by the Constitutional Legislator. But I say in the light of what Mayor Häupl said some time ago – I don't know any more literally, but he said: Pre-election times are times of general unreason in politics! –: It is already the question of whether the quality of the consolidation programme should ultimately take precedence over dates. I do not want to link a consolidation programme for the next generation at a time of general political irration, ladies and gentlemen. We should really consider this very, very well. One last word: Mr Finanzminister, as the chairman of the financial committee here in Parliament, I say that I am very glad that our state finances are in good hands with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12650	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12672	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of Bud, I believe you should look back to 2009, starting with the debate on a budget for the years 2009 and 2010. I would like to thank Andreas Schieder and Reinhold Lopatka, who, at my side a year ago, in one of the most difficult times for Austria, in the biggest economic crisis since 1945, have not only tried – as you know – but also managed to set up a double budget, which we have discussed passionately here a year ago and of which we can say today: [[Abg. Grosz: abdominal area, large abdominal area!]] With our forecasts, with our budgeting, we have achieved exactly what we have done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 3.5% of the deficit was planned for 2009, 3.5% of the budget year 2009. 4.7 percent for 2010 was forecast at the time, and we kept course. This year too, we should not develop even more drama in the markets, which we currently have no reason to calculate the year 2010 as budgeted on points and additions. Few other countries in the European Union have made such a point landing in a difficult time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, how were the conditions? – There was an economic collapse in a dimension like never before. At the same time, we have progressed with two economic packages, one of the largest tax reliefs for people in Austria. Furthermore, with a new budget law, we have taken care to introduce more budgetary discipline of the resorts in Austria. From today's point of view, we can say that the tax reform has worked, and private consumption has supported us in the revenue of sales, which we see in 2009. A real policy measure to relieve people! Second point: The economic packages have stabilised the small and medium-sized economy and industry as well. We also see that in the budget. Third and most important point, and it also makes me optimistic for the future: Never before or rarely before have the departments, the Ministries, in their responsibility, shown such expenditure discipline, precisely under the new budgetary law, as in 2009. The overall package was coherent, it was correct, and we have therefore fully scored in the European comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also remember many discussions of the time here in the House. Josef Bucheretwa, but also all the other leaders of the opposition parties, said in the budget debate at that time: It's all a "wooder" that can't work! [[Abg. Bucher: I didn’t say “Holler”! That's not my choice of words!]] How can one link such a double budget in a period of crisis?- Oh, my God! We should still be waiting, you said, Mr Bucher. It was too early to make a budget in April 2009. One has to wait and make the decision as late as possible to know how the crisis is developing. We have acted, and we have kept course, and that can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would of course also like to thank the ministers and, I have already done so, to the State Secretary, but also, of course, to those who have made sure in the economy that the year of crisis, which was hard, could be dealt with accordingly, not least with optimism. Why, many questions, will the budget deficit rise from 3.5 percent in 2009 to 4.7 percent this year? – Because parts of the tax reform only work fully this year. In the area of family discharge, this is about €500 million. Secondly, because we have to expect a further decline in revenue for this year; so we are hurting, but there will be no positive dynamic here due to the low growth. Thirdly, We will also be able to feel the dynamics of social expenditure in the field of care, pension, health, as it is above GDP growth in 2010. And fourthly, we will continue to have an increase in unemployment – as the growth of 1.5 percent is not sufficient – which is also shown by the first data in January, unfortunately, in order to be a limited barrier to the growth of unemployment. Therefore, there will be a deficit of 4.7 percent for 2010. But we have also acted, not to get caught up on the great result of the 2009/2010 budgeting. On Tuesday, in the Council of Ministers, we considered how we could get rid of the deficits and debt we had to deal with as a result of the crisis. This is a key task for policy over the next few weeks and months, this issue of reducing deficits and debt quite controversial, but also in the final effect, so that our children, so that the next generation is not burdened by a debt backpack, where there is no room for political necessary measures, where there is no room for offensive action in research and development, in education, in all the issues so necessary for the future of our children. Therefore, with the consolidation path, with 4.7 percent for 2010 as the starting point, we will push the deficit below 3 percent by 2013, namely to 2.7 percent by reducing it by 0.75 percent annually. The path is clear: In 2011 4 percent deficit, 2012 3.3 percent deficit, 2013 2.7 percent deficit. This results in a consolidation volume at the final expansion level of € 5.8 billion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this dimension that is necessary to shape the future, we know that we are facing a mammoth task. And if I say “we”, then this concerns several here in the hall, not just the government groups and the government members. That is why the schedule is also clear: We will now send this consolidation path to Brussels. We will decide on what is necessary in the Federal Financial Framework Act in April/May in this House. There's no way past that! The expenditure framework should be defined, discussed and decided here. And we will start immediately – in order not to raise misunderstandings – with this mammoth task of budgeting for 2011. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And when is the budget?]] The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, to get into the final phase of the autumn, just as Parliament wanted. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We now have January! You need a year for the budget?- Oh, my God!]] But I am fair enough to put the points on the table here clearly, you have to face up to what task we are facing. First: Administrative reform. This is also a question of countries, and there will also be two-thirds of them needed to achieve the objectives of fiscal consolidation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A little less “side views” and more work! That would be better!]] Second point: We will have to discuss and negotiate the budgets with all the departments. Thirdly, In terms of the expenditure structures of the Republic, of the pension on health, wherever the dynamic needs to be broken, we will need an incredibly extensive debate. And we will fourth in order to reach this path, budget accompanying laws need to be to an extent, starting with the 2011 budgeting, as never before. This mammoth task takes time and needs quality. That is why we will immediately enter the debate. The goal is to get to the final in autumn, but I hereby announce that this is an extremely ambitious schedule, and I don't want to have any accusations if we can't fulfill it on or off for a few weeks. That is the goal I have clear, along which we will negotiate, to develop the path of consolidation and the budgets of the future for Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For a year!]] That's the job, and I invite you to talk, to co-examination, that's a task that goes beyond the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12818	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12849	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the 2009 budget has kept, that's good. Many have already been praised, and Parliament too has been praised for the framework, budgetary law, which leads to more discipline. A group that could perhaps still be mentioned here in praise is Gerhard Steger and his team from the budget section, which always make it excellent, and these are also his budgets that keep. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I sometimes have the impression that some believe the crisis would be over because it goes up on the exchanges again because there is a mini-growth again, and I want to say clearly that for us the crisis is over when unemployment is falling and not as long as it rises. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who are the people?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we are now seeing is that unemployment is rising even further and there is no end in sight. That is why it would be absolutely wrong now to act as if the crisis were over and to save us in an even deeper crisis, but it is now necessary, above all, to invest us out of this crisis, that is, to make an offensive policy, as we did in 2009. We had long discussions about the tax reform, about the time, and I am glad that at the end of the day, the ÖVP was ready to make the tax reform already in 2009, because it was one of the building blocks for Austria – of course, we came to the crisis just as much – to be taxed much less than many other countries. It was one of the building blocks to deal offensively and investively with this crisis and not to save yourself into the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The discussion that we have, in fact, been having since autumn is about the question: Who pays for this crisis, who pays for it? There are, of course, different approaches and different concepts. I believe that we all agree on one point: that we must first look at expenditure on the one hand, in the administration and in other areas where we can make the state more efficient, efficient and also save on the other. I think that's where everyone agrees. And that's a policy task, not only in the crisis, it's always a policy task to see that the state works as efficiently as possible. That's certainly the first thing you have to do. But we have always clearly said that those who have caused this crisis, who have previously benefited from bubble developments, are also those who, of course, have to bear the costs of the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also made a number of clear proposals on what this participation can look like. The first thing we said was that we want a financial transaction tax, best at international level, at the second best at European level and also at Austrian level. The first two steps are now consensus – and was not always so – with regard to the national level we will still discuss. The second thing we have proposed is that the banks that have played a special role in this crisis, including the costs that the taxpayer now has, must also make a special contribution. That's where we went a step further. I take away from today's newspapers that the Vice-Cancellor now also says: Yes, the banks have to pay a contribution. [[Abg. Head: He always said that!]] That's a good thing, it seems to me that we're also coming in the direction of a consensus: Yes, the banks have to pay a contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two points from our proposals are still open. One thing is: We must regulate the amount of manager salaries, the deductibility of the tax, by no longer being deductible from the tax what exceeds the double salary of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Unfortunately, we have not yet reached an understanding with the coalition partner, since we will continue to actively promote this idea. I assume that even here – as was the case with many other issues, as was the case with the tax reform, with the financial transaction tax, with the banking tax – at the end of the day the reason will prevail – and we, as a very essential matter, will finally go more towards performance justice. Today we have the situation: Those who pay for their incomes, who go to work, pay high taxes – and those who have an unprofitable income, through speculation and the like, pay low or no taxes at all. That is what we need to get under control, and as well, the ÖVP must now be ready to say, yes, we want a performance-based tax system, that is, speculators should pay as much a tax as those working around their money.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12935	Next come Mr Deputies That's right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e12956	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If it is true that the budget is the policy cast into figures, this was an excellent policy of last year. It is not to be surpassed a point landing and accuracy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A belly spot!]] A belly spot, Mr Westenthaler, you have made, I could quote your statements on this budget at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that's nothing new at BZÖ: You're right. You're right. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 3.5 percent were the forecast – perfectly implemented, serious and credible by the Federal Minister. It is to be congratulated on the two Secretarys of State, Mr Lopatka and Mr Schieder, but it is especially thanks – it has already been carried out by Mr Krainer – to Mr Steger and to the officials of the Ministry. It will always or very often go to officials, but here are perfect officials at work who provide appropriate foundations, and we are grateful for it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To remember: What were the statements then? I have withdrawn the press releases, the speeches. A witness of poverty, a mogel pack, was called by the Greens. Or: Be hell-seen! Pröll was on the blind flight, said Mr Bucher. – Obviously located You're sinking, Mr. Bucher, with your party. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or: The budget produces additional unemployment, social misery, said the Green Chef Glavischnig, which I do not see today. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Here I am!]] - Oh, God, I'm glad! Bucher went on to claim that Pröll would be put under curate by the European Union. Mr Bucher, he has not yet presented himself that the colleague Scheuch will one day put him under Kuratel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Again!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache said that Minister of Finance Pröll was unhealed and praised the statements of the Nobel Prize winner Krugman. What happened to all of this today? – It was a year of misprognosis, the opposition was on the wrong level with the rating agencies and this Mr Krugman. [[Abg. Scheibner: Again!]] Mr Grazauer said that the budget would already be macular at the time it was printed. – Your statements, Mr Grastaur, have become macular, populist, loud, but all the more false. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you were right next door, because: The fact is, and the facts, the figures and the result prove it: Austria is better than the European average. Austria's growth from 2003 to 2009 was 11 percent, and in the euro area only 6 percent. Keywords: Wolfgang Schüssel – and I am sure that some people in this House would have to abdicate, too. Ladies and gentlemen, if – and that is right – Austria, as Mr Stumbled has done, has the third best value, then we should be pleased. Austria's debt is significantly lower than in the European average. Our data are significantly better than that of the Federal Republic of Germany and therefore internationally available: Austria's budget, Austria's labour market figures, Austria's economic performance. Because so much was said about who would have to pay for the crisis: Yes, I also say, the speculators to the cash register, please, quite clearly. These are the bad guys we've gotten into. But I don't think it's a bank tax, because these would have to pay the small house builders as a borrower, the small traders as borrowers and the small savers. But the speculators are supposed to pay, for which we are to have, because it can't be that they break us in and then steal from us. That's probably not how it's done! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased about this result! The budget has been made professional, it has been implemented as forecast. The Austrian economy, the Austrian workers make a corresponding part of it. And it is also gratifying that the share of social benefits in private households in Austria is much higher than in the European average. On the European average, this is 20.8 percent of GDP, with almost 26 percent in Austria. We should be happy about this. It will only be possible to maintain and expand these social benefits if necessary, where important, where appropriate, if Austria's economy can grow if employment can rise. And this should also ensure our policy: a positive future development for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13099	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13120	Good morning, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, the point landing is such a story. You know, I'm not a parachute jumper, but I assume that when you jump the landing point, you have a diameter of a meter or just about it. If, of course, you define the point with the size of the city of Vienna, then you could say: Hardly next door is also over! This is quite simple, which depends only on the size of the point you need to define. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the only reason why these budget figures have remained halfway within the framework, is that the bank savings package is not fully used by the banks. If these amounts are beating in 2010, you'll pick up twice and triple this year, and you know that! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Proll: Wrong!]] In all other things, you are completely adjacent; this is what our Budgetary Spokesman, Mr Alois Graurdauer, will tell you, of course, on the basis of figures. [[Abg. Aure: Beside it again!]] What you're doing here is a beauty. You want to talk something beautiful here, which is really not at all beautiful. To address the economic situation: They know that there is still no equal opportunities between the large industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. You know that the so-called economic packages, namely the billions of the economy you have imposed, increased the liability framework in the AWS, promotions in the ERP area and, and, at all, did not work. Just a number of them: The AWS loan or liability frameworks were not exploited for two reasons: It is far too complicated and not at all feasible for small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from such liability, because they do not have the opportunity to do so and the support of banks was not given. With the ERP credits you have placed €50 million; collected on the basis of ridiculous 700 applications, not even €15 million. That is, not even a third of this idea was exploited, and for itself, because, as I said, the whole process was far too complicated and because the whole thing goes far too slowly and far too sluggish. And what you still haven't heard is that the banks are still interconnected in direct promotions. That's a big mistake. What do you need banks for when you make ERP funding or other support that you can directly forward? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, you switch the banks between here. This is an additional hidden promotion of local banks and unnecessarily prolongs waiting times for those who would urgently need the money. That's the economic situation you're talking about. Mr President, you are now saying that budgetary consolidation must begin. – Yes, you are perfectly right, clearly it must start, it cannot continue like this! And you also say: Quality must stand before dates! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] Now this government has been in office for a year, for a year it has been said that savings potentials amount to several billion euros – by the way, by the way, figures from the Court of Auditors and not from us – would be available, but you are not doing anything. And now we have at the end of January 2010, and you are already talking about the budget for 2011 being delayed by a few weeks. Yeah, are you planning on not working this year? So I ask you all seriously: What have you done so far? [[Abg. Grosz: Preparation for the opera ball!]] You haven't done anything for a year, you know exactly that this savings potential, whether it be administrative reform or tax reform and similar things, will be impossible to implement as you imagine it. That's why you haven't done anything for a year now, you already know in January that you won't do anything in this year, and if you want to continue working like this, it would be much more reasonable for you to pack all your backpack and step back. – This is not a way of dealing with the Austrian population in times of crisis! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what the facts are, but I am telling you now the real reason why the whole thing will move. The real reason is the upcoming elections, and especially the elections in Vienna, but also not to forget those in Burgenland and, of course, in Styria. That's why you have back cover from the red side if you commit a clear constitutional break with the shift in the 2011 budget. You obviously don't know that. Perhaps you'll ask your law department in the house once, which is, if you decide on the 2011 budget only in 2011. It should already be legal. The real reason is that in the city of Vienna you are afraid of H.C. Strache, the true reason is that you are in Austria afraid of the Freedom Party, because the merciless reveals all the things you are trying to beautify here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you all: If you do not seriously deal with this crisis differently than you have done, then you will suffer shipwreck, and the voters will give you the right answer in the Burgenland, Styria, but especially in the city of Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13235	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13256	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Yes, you can talk about it if you want to design the current hour in this way, anyway, about the pro and contrast of your future process will be to be discussed separately. Look, we can now hold a jubilant hour to a number of points landing. I do not want to say that we are going to see how many random hits there are, because it is possible to get there by means of revenue and expenditure deviations. But that's really not the point. Let us be glad that it has not become a deficit, absolutely right. But in the perspective of the next few years it is not about a number of points landing here and now, but about how we will describe the budget deficits of the future and what is hidden from them for social and economic policies. And “hidden” is true then, because with the timetable you are calling out here, it means nothing more than that there will be a public debate after the country elections, and since last year you have refused the debate on the essential question: Who pays the cost of the crisis? - Well, of course. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] And now we’re going to ‘ clear through, ’ in what order we’re going to have to do that. First, the administrative reform – from me, d’accord – stands, then we can talk about where we can do something about expenditure, then we can talk about where we can do something about revenue. It is only clear that the deficit cannot remain that high. There you have us in the boat, we are very ready to talk here. And what Van der Bellen and I have always stressed was no horror news about any 2009 budgets, we have discussed how we get back to the stage until 2013. That was our theme! So you can take this quote collection back with you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely about us now that we are not raising any point landing to the fetish, because you can easily get to a political, economic and social break-up landing from a number of points landings, and you are on the best way. You're on the best way because you refuse the justice debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] On the subject of administrative reform: Look, we have accepted the invitation to these “Austrian talks” and participate there, but the question will be how long, if we have to find that nothing goes on there. Each reasonable proposal is blocked by certain provincial politicians, mostly red and black couleur. Admit it or stand by it, but do not explain to us that this path of administrative reform will make an essential contribution to the 6 billion in three years that you have just called out! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do this once, talk to the head of state Pröll in Lower Austria, from me also with Mr Voves in Styria, as it is with the school reform, as it is with the health reform and the hospitals. This is the same regularly: They continue to trample on our noses when we have a reasonable proposal. But it is not yet so far that the Federal Government is really going to break up here. You've had this offer, it's still up to you, just, I'm telling you one thing: More than a billion we will never get together in this administrative reform, not even in five years, probably much less. But this too would be a correct step if you were to take it reasonablely. Of course! But that's where you have to make reasonable national leaders, too. You are obviously overwhelmed with this question. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll as well as intermediate calls to the ÖVP.]] – Yes, they are well-informed in your party. I know exactly how the government negotiations were. Whenever Willi Molterer and I negotiated something reasonable, then some country captain came and meant that it wasn't. This is the state of ÖVP's reform! You know it very well. So stop pretending as if one could not now debate it so as not to block the administrative reform progress. That's blocking your people, and you just don't want to talk about how the contributions that are undoubtedly to be paid can be justly distributed. That is why you have also broken the social transfer account debate from the fence to cut down there or tax the whole thing. Yes then at least we talk openly about it! But you don't. You have said that you want to postpone the debate so that you can talk openly about it. I haven't heard a bigger nonsense at all: Don't talk so you can talk openly! How's that going? – Of course! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] You already have the Parliament. [[Abg. Amon: Go, go, go! Madam President.]] We've been negotiating the entire schedule here for weeks, and all of a sudden that's no longer true? This is a “beautiful” contribution to administrative reform! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The real question is: We're talking about revenue, we're talking about taxes, not around, but you don't want to admit it. The rich and super-rich are under your protection, and the masses are supposed to pay. They are planning to increase VAT, and no one should know that before the election. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'll tell you: Budgetary truth, honesty and justice are now failed as transparency and injustice of tomorrow. But this is your Pröll way.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13376	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13397	Madam President. You know, Minister of Finance, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I really wonder what the citizens are thinking now when they are following this debate in front of the screens. [[Abg. Head: What do they think about Carinthia?]] A celebration to which the ÖVP has invited is that, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the 400 000 unemployed in Austria! In Austria, 400 000 people are looking for a job, we have an economic decline, we have a budget deficit, and you are holding a special celebration here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Finanzminister, at the end of this legislative period, you have accumulated €280 billion in debt if you count the ASFINAG and the ÖBB with a total of €40 billion. Let's talk about the truth, let's talk about the real debt it's about! And here you sit here with your colleagues and take an hour off here in the House. That is unworthy, that is an increase of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have to tell you, Minister of Finance, if you are now so proud of a point landing: I would now be quite calm and recall, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2007 the Court of Auditors stated in a report on the Court of Auditors that the Minister of Finance had lost €2 billion at that time! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Which Minister of Finance?]] That is to say, we should now go the right way and wait for what the Court of Auditors calculates here from the 2009 balance sheet, and then we will see if a point landing has really come out. In fact, it is true that you had reserved €10 billion for the banks and the banks only collected €5 billion. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] That's exactly why you're getting over the rounds with the budget now! You can partly thank the banks, but not a careful budgetary policy, because you have not done so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To date, you have not sent a single reform on the journey, neither in education policy nor in health policy, nor in administration, where we have been presenting to you, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, for months and years, the potential for savings to be raised there. You didn't send a single reform on the trip. No, you're going the way that you're saying: We will not negotiate and adopt the 2011 budget until next year! Thus, the 2011 budget will not be effective and implemented until mid-2011, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Head: Go, stop! Stop telling the fairy tale!]] There is no orientation in the middle of a crisis. In the middle of a crisis, the government does not know what to do. In the middle of a crisis, she deceives voters because we have elections this year in three important federal states, in the Burgenland, in Vienna and in Styria. Tell the truth, Mr Finanzminister, what you are planning to do, tell us the horrors that come to the Austrians, tell them what the wave of burden looks like – but before the elections in these federal states! We expect you to: Honesty, cleanliness, propriety! This has been announced, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because you're talking about that it's not possible to make a budget: You have created a double budget in 2009 and 2010, on which you are now so proudly based, ladies and gentlemen. That's why I'm saying: That is a deep blow for parliamentarianism too! We have already set up a clear budget timetable for this year. You know that you are on the move, you know that you have to make a proposal under the new budgetary law by April, you know that you are also bound by the Stability Pact and the Stability Programme and by 2nd. June after Brussels, what measures do you plan to take, what burdens you are planning, so don't do that! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Let's do it! That's what we do!]] It's not what you expect from a finance minister. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, you are planning an attack on the middle class! That's the truth! They want to take away the citizens! That is the truth, Minister of Finance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally put the cards on the table and cheat You do not go beyond three important country elections again, but rightly address the measures! You know that measures are necessary if we are to take seriously debt reduction. No one will stand in your way because the opposition will also help you. But no burden, no new taxes and no tax increase at all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's the wrong way! We will not put the economy on healthy legs.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13534	Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13555	Madam President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Estimated Secretary of State! I think that this report of the billing is, of course, a positive signal and, of course, the opposition’s cash-and-run calls cannot be properly given here in far-reaching areas. In any case, this is gratifying and testifies to the fact that the performance of this federal government as a whole is much better than it is desired by some and described by many. That's a fact! I would like to refer briefly to my colleague, Jakob Auer, who, as Raiffeisen's representative, is here – obviously – betting against the 0.07 percent bank tax. If you look at the latest edition of the FORMAT, where the question is asked: How rich are the banks? and where there is a chart on the questions: How much do they pay taxes? How do the profits develop? How do the tax payments of these banks develop?, then one sees that it is appropriate to discuss them. We have been elected by the people and not by the banks in this house, and if the porters pay more taxes than their own service provider, the bank, then it is appropriate that this be brought into the debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that these 0.07 percent are really a minimal, very modest idea, which could nevertheless bring a lot of money, and I believe that every Austrian bank must be able to afford it. We have had problems here over the last few years – I remember the agreement in the Lombard club – and therefore I believe that the Austrian banks have developed a very good performance over the last eight or ten years, have had the best conditions for expansion in Eastern Europe, and a contribution from these banks to taxpayers should be made, which is reasonable, because we have finally made this possible through appropriate legal conditions. However, as it is a very current hour, I would also like to talk about current problems. In the media, we have been hearing in reports for a few days now that the vultures are circling over the Austrian banking area in Austria, Central and Eastern Europe and are now finding some of these American funds, which, so to speak, are trying as vultures to cheaply divert banks, troublesome or unattractive loans. For the banks, this is not a problem: One exchanges a risky liability in the future for a short-term asset and has the concerns off. This is the philosophy of our bankers. But that will be a really bad thing if it really gets beating. We must resist, we must try to keep these vultures away from the European markets, and we must develop our own concepts and innovative concepts. I think it would be quite possible to establish a secure bank for all foreign currency loans and their repayments – for house builders; but also for commercial customers, huge volumes are on the way here – in Austria. I could also imagine that the local credit, which normally does not operate in these private transactions, could have a function. I really want to suggest that this model should be remembered, Minister of Finance. With an Austrian Debt Recovery Fund, we could develop a financing solution for these dangerous loans, which, positively managed, would lead to a good long-term economic outcome. I believe that exports to neighbouring countries, to the Austrian banking area, as I call it, would be a real economic, economic and social innovation. I would therefore ask you to address these thoughts, because otherwise, in the coming weeks, months and perhaps in the next one, two years over Austria, but also in the Central European area, an additional crisis could come that would make it even more difficult for us to achieve these Austrian budget targets which we are so ambitious in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13606	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13628	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Minister of State! Estimated State Secretary! High house! I am very curious and excited about that plenary session in which we then have to make the decisions in which – in good Lower Austrian – we want to make the nail exactly on the head. I am curious who will take control of the opposition in order to decide on the measures necessary to bring stability back to the country in order to bring security to our country. I am already very excited, Mr Themessl, especially with regard to the two-thirds decisions, I am curious whether there will be populist speeches or whether there will then be expertise and necessary views. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say to Mr Bucher: Our Minister of Finance, our vice chancellor Josef Pröll will present proposals in April. I am curious about your concepts, and I am very excited about what action you are planning, because the measures of the Greens – a tax increase as announced by Mr Kogler – cannot be. This is the simplest method: If we increase taxes, we ask all citizens to register! That's too little for us, we don't want that in this form! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is also important for the people to know what has actually happened. Everyone is talking about the financial crisis, from which the economic crisis has developed – and what does that mean in numbers? The state has, of course, revenues, but in 2009 we had an end due to the economic deterioration. In the case of taxes and taxes alone, we have a loss of 1.5 billion less revenue due to this economic downturn. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is a nonsense what you say! It's 1.5 billion less than forecast!]] We have only taken 1 billion € in corporate tax. We have only taken €100 million less with the wage tax. We have a minus in the sales tax of € 300 million; I could continue this list. Because of these under-incomes – and a budget is something alive, we know from the budget creation in the communities – we have seen the need to work accordingly in expenditure. And this has been achieved by our Minister of Finance: not only to see how people can be burdened, but to relieve them, and where it is possible for us to limit expenditure. I must congratulate our Vice-Chancellor on the success of moving colleagues from the government – all ministers – to stick to their budgets; of course, I also support the corresponding budget law. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] The fact that the tax reform has succeeded in keeping private consumption on track, that people continue shopping – perhaps even stronger – has helped us a lot over this difficult situation. But fact is – and we can say this today – that despite these difficult and turbulent times in 2009, the Minister of Finance succeeded – I am staying here – in making a point landing, not a belly spot, as has been said today. There has been a abdominal spot in a southern federal state – not in the Wörthersee, that would be understandable – a abdominal spot on hard soil that has spread beyond our borders. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There's the ÖVP in the coalition! That's where the ÖVP reigns in Carinthia! You forgot, didn't you? There's a coalition in Carinthia!]] That's what we have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, the year 2010 must be the year of stabilisation, consolidation, and we simply need the strength to make 2011 a year of upturn. We need the strength and economic stability to make the years 2012 and 2013 that way again, with a financial margin that we need to secure and guarantee further development. Only an economically sound, strong policy can also provide social benefits. We must be aware of that. We are in favour of reforms, we are in favour of administrative reform, but always with regard to social justice, with regard to social distribution justice. This is a special concern to me personally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We, the EIAs, have not pressed us at any time before it was necessary – especially in economically and financially difficult situations and times – to act themselves; whether in the years 1995, 1996 or 1999, when serious consolidation measures had to be taken. We have taken this responsibility. We have re-established the Republic, so to speak, and that is why it is our task and objective – and our Minister of Finance is the guarantee – that we are coming from the 2010 recovery phase into a recovery phase in 2011. I'm all right, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13710	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13732	Thank you, Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! How to get over €10 billion deficit in a It's a great miracle and a surprise for me to be happy year. Last year, we made €10 billion deficit – but in line. A courageous topic today: ‘Austria on course – point landing of the Minister of Finance in the implementation of the budget’. We've already heard: 200 billion € Debts are up to now, until the year 2013 there will be 270 billion €. We pay much more than €10 billion per year. Austria is on course – black work is flourishing, the pussy is as widespread as never, unemployment is rising at a level of currently 380 000 people, unfortunately. Only yesterday we heard again that at Böhler in Kapfenberg 280 cancellations are pronounced. Austria on course – what does one do against this unemployment? Where are other economic programmes to stimulate the economy? Austria on course – the economy where one looks in close-to-state businesses. The ÖBB speculate € 620 million – Huber and Söllinger are being generously finished. The Federal Finance Agency speculates millions of euros – no consequences so far. The BUWOG sale is going to take place under very corrupt conditions – the suspicion is that the state has been greatly cheated here. Cities and municipalities speculate large amounts with securities and in cross-border business. The AUA is donated with €500 million – Ötsch is generously finished. Skylink – the expansion of the airport in Vienna – costs twice as much as planned. The bureaucracy celebrates enormous origins, financial market supervision fails on all lines. Austria on course – so far, too, but at the wrong spot, namely in security, in justice, at the police. It was not saved in the administration, health, where necessary, and in many other areas in the public sector. The stability programme, which the EU has encouraged and commanded, proposes further savings. But now to the abdominal landing, breakdown of this budget. It's not finished yet, we're only half-time, and the numbers aren't on the table at Weitem. At present, we are €9.6 billion in deficit for 2009, and that is only because, as honourable Members Bucher correctly said, we have not exploited the bank package or had to take advantage of it, which we, Mrs Schittenhelm, have also decided, because you have said that we never participate in reasonable decisions. Tax revenue has fallen dramatically in the case of income and wage taxes, with corporation tax. It's twice as bad as they're really lost money. Look around – many of you are mayors too – how bad the communities are, how badly the communities can finance themselves; many are facing inability to pay. I also doubt that these figures mentioned here are correct. Two weeks ago, the ORF said that the deficit amounted to €7.1 billion. Now, according to the stability programme, it is €9.6 billion. And in the monthly report of November, which we in Parliament always receive from the Ministry of Finance, it was still 12.1 billion € deficit. What's right now? I suspect that the public is consciously informed falsely or half-rightly and that Parliament is not getting the figures and figures at the right time to do so, as we do. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to the ÖVP: Don't ask the people of Austria to sell stupidly, because people know very well that there is a catastrophic situation in the finances of the state, and expect everyone to make his contribution. First, however, the state needs to go ahead with a good example and use the existing savings potential before talking about other possibilities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13801	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13822	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A question to the ÖVP: What are you so proud of now? – They are so proud that the forecast deficit corresponds to the actual one. Okay, but let's maybe take a look at the numbers a little bit. The actual deficit corresponds to the forecast, yes, but you have been a little deceived as to tax revenue – you have estimated at €1.5 billion – and you have been lucky that neither the short work nor the bank package have been fully exhausted. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] You can't be lucky that this has gone out. It looks different for the next year. If the lack of this year's tax revenue – these are 1.5 billion that have been taken less than forecast – are rewritten for the next year, we already have a problem, and that the Hypo Alpes-Adria will need more than 500 million, we also know. So I think there is no reason to rejoice, but there is an occasion – and that is why I refer to the budget speech when you presented the budget – to the truthfulness. And that's your big problem, Minister of Finance Pröll: You have a problem with the truth. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll talks to State Secretary Dr. Lopatka.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Listen! Mr. Minister, listen to me!]] They sit down and say: Point landing at the budget! At the same time, you say: It's not going to go out. It is not possible that the talks with the countries will not be concluded, I already know. The economic situation is so uncertain that we cannot, at least, present a budget to the National Council in accordance with the Constitution in due time. This is not the case with the federal states. Maybe it's going to be okay. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Mr. Minister, listen to me at last!]] I don't think you can sell the population for stupid. Everyone knows what it's all about. It is about not having to present a budget before the Vienna elections, and that is why the savings package that must be included in it – otherwise it does not go out; it will be a Pröll-Supersparpaket, otherwise it will not be possible to discuss it in a transparent way. That is your intention, and we cannot and do not want to let go! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you take the word “administrative reform” into your mouth again, I really get a laugh. Poor President of the Court of Auditors Moser has already thrown away the nerves. He says it doesn't go on that way anymore. Each measure is blocked in the working groups in which the federal states are represented. There is no single measure submitted. I really have a great understanding for the poor President of the Court of Auditors. After 30 years of discussion, this enormous pressure for reform is on all sides, but there is no measure that you want to present to Parliament by autumn, where you can actually manage revenue, savings. It's a witness to poverty. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's still kicking!]] – They chat behind me, Mr Finanzminister, and are obviously good, but we would like to have a few proposals on the table. We would have liked to know what is hidden in this black magic box – more than that at the moment – administrative reform. By the way, we have been trying to know this for 30 years, and it is already very frustrating to hear the same answer: The Federal Governments are not going to the next budget in time! – Please, consider You have another excuse, and you can also persuade your heads of state to be truthful and to have serious discussions about how we can better put up the entire federalist system! – Thank you for your understanding. Col. Schittenhelm of the ÖVP has made a round wrap to the hypo to Carinthia and said that there was a abdominal spot there. I should like to remind you of one thing, Mrs Colleague: There is a genuine coalition in Carinthia, namely with the Freedom Party of Carinthia, which should never again in her life take the word “taxer”/“taxer” into the mouth; half the state government is suspected of corruption. €1.5 billion of public money – not because of the financial market crisis, but simply because of real barges! It's amazing, though! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Given that there is something else to talk about cleanliness and propriety, the Chuzpe is simple. That's really a joke what you've done here. Also a deficit and such packages as the 1.5 billion someone pays. For the colleague Schittenhelm to understand: It's not just a question of suffocating tax revenue that someone has to pay for it, but a deficit must also be paid by someone. This must be paid for by the entire population, namely the present generation, the next generation and the next generation, in view of this deficit that you have now achieved. Therefore, you can quietly demand a little truthfulness and say: Not only would we like a stability programme, which is essentially a fantasy programme, but we want to talk about measures. We want to know how you imagine bringing these billions back in. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I'll tell you that!]] He refuses, he refuses until after the elections, because he is afraid to put the cards on the table. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We're not going to let this happen as an opposition. I'm sure not! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Don't believe the population doesn't see this through! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13964	Now comes Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e13986	Madam President. High house! The topic today is: ‘Austria on course – point landing of the Minister of Finance in the implementation of the budget’. It could be said that the Minister of Finance has done his job well. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. You're right!]] So Mr Pröll is very satisfied with himself. [[De monstrativ acclaim and bravoruf des Abg. Amon.]] He's very satisfied with himself. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Now the question is: Is Austria also satisfied with the Minister for Finance? [[Calls:No]] Mr Finanzminister, you can celebrate a budget that is completely out of control. It's completely out of the row. We're building a deficit on an unexpected level, and you can celebrate that you've known it before. You can celebrate that you knew in advance that our budget will be very terrible. You're celebrating this as a great success today. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Where is Germany? France?]] Imagine a head of the Group, Mr. Finanzminister, a head of the Group, presenting a deep-red, disastrous balance sheet, and setting the whole thing up – and that he still likes – that he has already known it before and can be celebrated for it! So one thing's sure: The owners of this group would have no pleasure. Just as little joy has Austria with you if you let yourself be celebrated for knowing that you have always known that this budget will be disastrous. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If we had to issue a semester certificate to you today, Mr Finanzminister, it would have to be in it: not enough. It is not enough, Minister of Finance, if you come here and celebrate that you have delivered a budget which is completely out of the row if you accumulate more debt every year if the pressing problems of our country are not solved if you simply do not do anything in the education system, in the health system, in the administrative reform and in pensions, Mr Finanzminister! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] That's why I have to tell you, that's not enough. All these problems are waiting for a solution, and nothing comes. There is nothing from your point of view, Mr. Finanzminister, and I ask myself: Why is that so? [[Abg. Großruck: Call your suggestions!]] Maybe you don't know how it is, Mr. Finanzminister? Don't you know? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Look at the budget, then see it!]] I'm sure you know. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Eben!]] I think you know very well how to solve the problems. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] You know that because the Court of Auditors, the Industrial Union, the World Bank, the EU, the opposition, all of them have made proposals to you. It's all on the table, Minister of Finance, but you're not doing anything! Now the question is: Why don't you do anything? Why Dissolve You're not the current problems in this country? That is the central question, Mr Finance Minister. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Because I don't want to risk permanent...!]] Why don't you solve this country's problems? – I can tell you why you don’t. You lack courage, Minister of Finance! You lack the political courage to act against your own country chiefs and against your own party. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: yours is something very special!]] You lack the courage to act against the administrative apparatus and your own trade union. You too lack this courage. And you especially lack the courage to tell people the truth at last, and the truth in this country is: It can't go on like this! That's not how it goes, Minister of Finance! We drive full steam to the wall. We are ruining this country, and we are building our children the future. We build the future for our children. So far, all generations before us have had a election, a single election, namely: Our children should go better than ourselves!, the current election today seems to be loud: Our children should go worse than us! This is the only way to explain how you act, Minister of Finance, and to raise debts for debt that our children sometimes have to pay. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister, we've been watching you for a whole year now. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Prill: You always watch!]] We now finally want you to address the problems of this country, because we have earned ourselves a Minister of Finance, who has the political courage to solve the problems of this country. If you, Minister of Finance, do not want to give up this courage, I can only say to you: Make the way for a finance minister who gives this courage, because that is exactly what Austria has earned and only in this way can we prevent our children from getting worse than ourselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14187	Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14220	If the EIA has calmed down, we can talk about the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... orange tie!]] If one has listened to you today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and you too, Minister of Finance, then it is believed that the budget is actually all right. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If, in fact, everything is all right, Minister of Finance, why don't you submit the 2011 budget to Parliament and the Austrians in due time and just as it is provided in the law, but prepare us here today with good words to say that, in fact, due to the failed negotiations on health reform, the Service Law and the Administrative Reform in front and back, and that you have to turn on the tax screw? Why, Minister of Finance, do you not tell us the truth, namely that the announcements you made in your budget speech – administrative reform, health reform, service law – have failed due to the conflict in the coalition and that we now have to take unpopular measures? Unpopular measures which, of course, cannot take place now, because country elections are in place in Burgenland, in Vienna and in other federal states. You are talking about a point landing today, Minister of Finance. In fact, it is a break-down landing that you are presenting here with your budget, because the budget flyer has been cancelled and you have also announced in your budget speech that we have to take action - due to the highest re-indebtedness ever made in this Republic - due to the biggest budget deficit and the highest rate of unemployment - but this budget flyer has become heavily tumultuous. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Let us take a look at what has become of these announced measures! The administrative reform remains that the service cars should be grouped into a pool, and then the ÖVP has said: Well, we're not going to do that. The health reform has shot hundreds of millions of euros and said: Now you need to clean up! – nothing is happening. [[Call the ÖVP:... Carinthia!]] The Law on Teachers' Service has entered into negotiations. The union has risen, nothing is happening – the deficit is being postponed. This is how it continues in all areas. They have announced and promised expenditure-side rehabilitations. What happened to it? - Nothing! And stupidly today comes out here for the x-t time and announces a consolidation program again. It's always the same thing in this coalition: You promise something, you announce something – whether it is in education reform or in health insurance, for example, whether it has been in the ORF law on the current occasion, or whether it has been in banking aid – then it will be negotiated first, then disputed and finally the reform will be cancelled. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Mr Finanzminister, you have the courage to give the Austrians some pure wine and say what is actually planned in this coalition. If you are talking about bank taxes now, if some Member, especially the Social Democrats, is thinking out loud about the increase in VAT, then you have the courage and say that you need to plan and carry out tax increases, because you really don't end up with your budget. Ingeborg Bachmann once said: “The truth is reasonable to man”. Put the truth on the table – here in Parliament the MP, and put the truth on the table to the Austrians too, before the elections and not after, where there is an evil awakening!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14298	Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to lower the noise level a little! Next, Mr Linder. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14336	Federal Chancellor! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's from the old clothes collection. [[Abg. Bucher: Bundeskanzler is not!]] Well, "Wonder-gern-" or future Federal Chancellor! [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP.]] This should again be a small step in these coalition disputes. Ladies and gentlemen, after this celebration of a supposed point-specific landing of the budget, I believe – as we have already heard today that we have calculated by €2 billion – that we will still take a very close look at these figures and see to what extent they are voting. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: If we're talking about a budget, it's a prospect for me, a pre-planning. This budget, which we are celebrating today as a point-specific landing, has been decided exactly in June. That means that it has already been an account for more than half of this budget, and that is why you should not say so full-bodiedly that you are perfect in planning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll is in such a big celebration, because he believes that everything is so perfect and we don't need to make a budget for 2011. For now we celebrate and enjoy once, in a supposed success without looking forward without giving, calculating, or looking at how it continues. We in the communities have real problems to contend with when I think that we alone have losses of more than 15 percent in income. 15 percent in the very narrow community budgets is crazy money, and we would need help, we would need perspective and planning. But unfortunately, Mr Chancellor – again Mr Chancellor, should be an omen – unfortunately, Minister, instead of looking ahead to you. However, I also believe that it is very important – where we work directly for the public – for us in the communities in particular – that we get the support we need that the 15 percent loss of income is not simply taken on the light shoulder. It would be urgently necessary – if you, Mrs Schittenhelm, say that the budget is alive – to link up an infrastructure package for us communities, because we know today that 90 percent of the funds that come to the communities land directly from the citizens, in the local economy. I believe, Minister, that it would be necessary for you to look forward, work and stand by us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another real approach to work for you would be to finally stop the injustice of incomes between the West and the East in the course of a financial compensation. It can't be that the municipalities in Styria, Burgenland, in Carinthia get less per citizen than the municipalities in Vorarlberg, Tirol or Salzburg. That's the time when something is done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we decided on the budget in June, the Ministry of Finance declared: Since we are heading for the biggest crisis, a double budget has to be set, we have to work ahead, we have to plan ahead. Now, where the elections are in the house, you get cold feet and say: For God's sake, just do nothing! We're not moving anywhere and we're not doing anything. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to work in the congregations in this way and show such practices, the citizen would not understand us and would not give us any votes. I believe that what is actually on the agenda for our small communities is courage to reform and to tell the public the truth, should already be a commitment for a Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14401	Mr Jury is now speaking. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14428	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! One could say today in the football language: Attack is the best defense! [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, but also Mr. Finance Minister and Mr. Klubobmann Kopf, it is only apparently a brilliant move if one is in the corner to go to the offensive. With your announcement to have fed this double budget 2009/2010 of an optimal score landing, you have done so. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case with Weitem. If you get the figures to mind, then we start from the month of June 2009. Today you go out where you have the numbers, and say: Yeah, it's all right anyway. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, only the year 2010 is the year in which these budget figures have to stand by the paint must test. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I am also speaking today as representatives of the countless mayors, including in this House, in all the municipalities and cities of the Republic. [[Call the ÖVP:Na na!]] If you know that the proportions of income – sometimes up to a third of the total budget of a municipality, make up a community – have fallen by 9 percent in 2009, they are forecast to fall once more by 4.4 percent in 2010, and – now listen and marvel – state the first forecasts and statements in 2010 that even these 4.4 percent cannot be kept, but rise to 6 and 7 percent, then this is the bankruptcy declaration of the budget figures and the budget policy of this House and of this government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: the Federal State of Carinthia!]] If we can't keep these budget figures, that's what's happening to the public – twice. It is not only because it loses its work, but because the communities can no longer carry out their most appropriate tasks, such as safety, road construction, educational facilities and the various services for citizens at the base. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, finally you are launching the overdue administrative reform, otherwise the Republic of Austria will suffer a financial collapse! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Start the overdue educational reform and not always put the educators and teachers at the centre of interest, but put the youth, the students, the future of our country at the heart of interest! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Start a health reform so that we don't find our youth on the streets – lonesome, alcoholic, intoxicated and psychologically ill. [[Abg. Scheibner: Hello!]] Only yesterday's statements of our Minister of Health need to be put to the fore: This is not at all a problem in this investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the bankruptcy declaration of the red and black coalition! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, go to work, and if you refuse to do the job, take off and make room for new elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14546	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. – Once the ladies and gentlemen in the hall have calmed down, we will continue. [[10:35:12]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14571	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:35:36]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14924	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 4319/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior concerning the establishment of an asylum first post in the south. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[10:36:00]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3168/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14950	I shall also inform you, before receipt of the agenda, that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on Question No 3168/AB of Question No 3177/J by Mr Dr. Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues in relation to advisory fees for the sale of the federal housing companies by the Federal Minister for Finance. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Treatment of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14975	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 to 7, 8 and 9, 11 and 12 and 15 and 16 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e14999	The Presidential Conference reached the following consensus on the design and duration of the debates: A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 126 minutes, FPÖ 113 minutes, Green 99 and BZÖ 95 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were agreed for the duration of the TV broadcast by the ORF until 1 p.m.: Statements by German Chancellors and Vice Chancellors each 10 minutes, one round per group with 10 minutes each, the German Federal Minister of Science and Research's speech 10 minutes and then two rounds first with 8 minutes and then with 6 minutes. The line of speakers is as follows: first round FPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, SPÖ, BZÖ, second and third round after group strength. The President-in-Office of the Presidency shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups at the latest before the beginning of the last round – after consultation with the club presidents – in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:38:25]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council concerning the appointment of a new member of the Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15050	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement and put the clock at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15078	Madam President. My Honourable Government Members! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would first like to thank the Minister, who has so far had the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Science, Hahn. In the course of the debates on the question of the appointment of our Commissioner, I would just like to remind you once again that our candidate Dr. Johannes Hahn was excellently cut off from the hearing in Parliament and that he has been given a place that can truly be referred to as an important area of the future, namely regional policy. This is a great success for our country, a success we are proud of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] On this occasion I would like to thank Dr. Johannes Hahn for the work he has done in this House and wish him all the necessary good for the future of his work, which is very important for our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to introduce you, as it is so beautiful, to someone you know well, because she has been working as a parliamentarian in this House over the last three years. Dr. Beatrix Karl has been working at universities for 18 years, she is an insider in the universities, she is a practitioner and thus meets many requirements that this office requires. I do not need to mention the CV of Mrs Beatrix Karl, who has often spoken in this House for a long time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We already know that! 75 per cent unemployed!]] We have often discussed together that this task of being responsible for a substantial part of education in this country is one of the key factors in dealing with the problems of Austria in the future. In a difficult economic situation with regard to the question of jobs, in which the whole world asks whether we can prevent the negative effects of the situation on financial markets once again – a number of regulatory economic decisions are necessary for the future – this is a matter of equal priority in the political debate, for example today in Davos, in which one of our ministers also participates, namely, how to regulate financial markets in the future, so that we do not once again international – and no border can protect ourselves from it – a situation in which we have to save much more urgently for education and universities, banks and financial markets. It is therefore a task of our time to draw consequences from the economic crisis and to continue to combat the impact of the economic crisis with all the means available to us, as we do in Austria, because otherwise we would not have the second lowest unemployment and second most youth unemployment. However, we must also use this time to take matters of education as key questions for our country's decision after the economic crisis, particularly seriously. There are countries that, due to difficult budgetary conditions – these are not comparable to those we are discussing – in all areas, cut down and delete so radically that they also significantly reduce educational expenditure. We also need to save in Austria, we also need to reverse every euro twice and exploit all the savings potential, but we agree that research, development and education are among those key factors that will also be equipped with the necessary resources in the future with appropriate efficiency but also the necessary resources. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This includes not only promoting very young people, for example in the area of pre-school childcare and the pre-school year initiated by us together, and all the time of schooling with all the improvements that we aim for together, but also in the field of science, education at universities and universities, which can be greatly improved. Dr Beatrix Karl therefore takes on a difficult task – and that at a time when the university dialogue has begun, where there are many partners with whom this dialogue is to be conducted – she has already made it clear in her first interviews. It has identified the students as an important partner in this discussion, announced conversations and has shown that it intends to conduct in all seriousness the dialogue that has always been seen in our country as the right way to resolve conflicts, questions and wishes for improvement. The fact that discussions, such as about access schemes, are to be held, as she said in her first interviews, but that she does not mean Knock-out tests and that the issue of justice and equal opportunities plays an important role is just as important to us as the challenge of the Minister to be active at European level. This does not have to be dealt with by a member of the government alone, but, of course, with my support and the support of all other members of the government at European level. We cannot solve many questions, which we are facing together with the Minister, in Austria alone – the word "medicine regulation", but far beyond, the word "solution competence" at European level. There will also be points such as the tuition fees in which we do not share the same opinion. But it is part of a discussion. We all agree, however, that for universities, the students of our country, we also set out in the medium term the measures we have set out in our government programme. The improvement of universities and the creation of better conditions of study are one of the essential tasks of our country, and I wish you, Mrs Minister, every good thing for your work. It is a work in the interest of our country for a good future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15141	I now give the floor to Mr Pröll for another 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15163	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Intergovernmental colleagues, but above all Dear Dr Beatrix Karl! Beatrix, welcome to the government bank in the High House, which you have known for a long time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] In the conflict between the MP and the government, you changed the fronts, so to speak, but how it is going and how politics is designed in this House is known to you since 2006. I am also very grateful to Gio Hahn, who has set important trends in science and research policy in the last few years here in the High House in the field of science and research policy, who has also done a lot and has shown commitment on a daily basis in the issues of universities, the technical universities and in his entire portfolio of responsibilities. I too wish him every good thing for his new responsibility in the European Commission, which he will take up in a few days. With the Regional Policy Committee, it will have an important future for Europe in Brussels and thus also for Austria. Beatrix Karl comes from the heart of Austria's university landscape – and that's why my choice has also fallen on her. She has been active for 23 years as a student, assistant and university professor at the University of Graz and, with her experience and knowledge, knows the inner life of university operations like little others. These are the best conditions for this, I think that the challenges that are not too narrow can be met. She has a second great advantage in her Vita and her CV, namely to be active in research in addition to teaching. In Munich, she was active for two or three years at the Max Planck Institute in the field of research. It also knows the second facet of this important region of the future, science and research. The third point is that all of us, I think, have the task of finding out from the crisis the right answers for the future. It is safe – I can join the Chancellor – that education, research and development in and after the crisis represent a key factor in the upturn in Austria and the prosperity we want to develop. We want to create jobs with research, education and scientific training at top level and to keep Austria where it is, one of the best places in Europe in the labour market situation. This is the third area and core competence of Beatrix Karl. She comes from labour law and European law, especially from labour law as a professor, and was active in the employee representation of my, our Austrian People's Party for more than half a year, so she also knows this third area. This is an exciting bow: To create research, science and work. And in this expertise, you're unattainable, and I think that's a great prerequisite for the next few years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, a number of challenges to be faced. The university and higher education dialogue has started, and I am looking to everyone here in the House to ensure that not the style of the dispute between students and universities and the Minister and the government in recent weeks will also prevail in future debates. I cannot understand at all that a few days after the start of office, the new minister is distrusted by the Greens because she has put concepts on the table. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want the style of dialogue in this sensitive area, on the university level. But we need courage for truth and openness. And if there are problems with some faculties and disciplines, we must address them openly. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] There are several ways to provide a wide range of access restrictions. – The Federal Chancellor mentioned this, there are different opinions on individual topics, but it is clear that the new Minister must act in the sense of the quality of universities and also the quality and speed of students at universities and colleges. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, there is enough to do and in the government the discussion is to be held on the question of how we carry on the universities and research. And Beatrix Karl is in the right place with her openness, with her dialogue strength the right woman at the right time!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15268	We are going into the debate on the statements. The speaking times are known. First round: 10 minutes each. I call Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15295	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Beatrix Karl, first of all, I would like to welcome you in your new role and wish you all the best for your coming task. It is not an easy task that you have taken over, especially because of what has been left behind you, you have a very, very difficult inheritance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore do not understand the praise for the divorced minister who is staying in Brussels today. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - He's sitting here on the gallery. Greetings to God, Mr. Hahn! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] You have not noticed me today, but also in the past very rarely as far as your activity in this House is concerned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You won't have it easy, Mrs. Minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Their predecessors have left quite negative things at all levels. He has failed in many areas and left behind a chaos, even if you don't want to hear it – as in other areas – and keep coming under the carpet. One can also speak of a very weak balance sheet, in some areas also of a gray balance. It is only to be hoped that Mr. Hahn will manage this in the future in Brussels and will not do as much harm as in the local research and science landscape. He has indebted a number of negative developments. However, Mrs Minister, I am afraid that you made the mistake before your fishing observation, by going up to the steps of Mr. Minister, out of service to Hahn, because we know what Mr. Hahn has always tried to do in the past. Mr. Hahn has expressed the view that higher education abuses can only be solved with tuition fees. [[Abg. Listen, too!]] He felt that it was only possible to turn to the positive with restrictions on access to the university. [[Abg. Listen, too!]] And that's exactly the wrong answers. But as we had to learn from the APA reports, you, Mrs. Minister, have repeated and advocated just this old hat, which has already been given to Mr. Minister out of service, and which has not found a majority in this House, and that there should be tuition fees in the future, that there should be access restrictions at the universities. ==References== January to the APA articulated. I say to you, Mrs Minister, that is not a new way of politics. These are, as I said, old, outdated demands, that is an old wine in new hoses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And we do not imagine that under a new, forward-looking policy of this ministry. We understand something else by future orientation. It is also interesting that you in the APA have expressed the opinion that the coalition partner would agree with your plans in the matter of tuition fees. I am looking forward to the coming, if you think that the coalition partner supports study fees and access restrictions. I think everything is possible. The Federal Chancellor now sitting behind me has already fallen into many areas, of course this is possible even if you have already announced it. We have already experienced this in countless areas that could be mentioned, for example in the pension area, where you have abandoned the pensioners with the pensioner price index, or in many other areas where you have not agreed to an adequate increase. [[Abg. May. Rudas: How was the hunter ball?]] That's on the table, as it were. And you can almost hear the crackling of your project, otherwise Mr. Finanzminister Josef Pröll's budget would not have been postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, that is to say to the time after the next three country elections, because there were a lot of burdens on the Austrian population. That's what I'm Your method: We do not want to be unpleasant before the country elections. [[Abg. May. Rudas: How was the hypo?]] So wait, move the budget for the year 2011 to the time after the three country elections, so that the big loads you already have in the drawers meet the population. And that is not only dishonest, but also a false policy that you are responsible for here and which the citizens are also looking through. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the field of universities: Instead of reinvigorating the old failed methods, as you have already done in advance, Mrs Minister, finally nails should be made with heads. There are suggestions on how to implement necessary improvements in the university field. The Freedom Party of Austria and its science spokesman Dr. Martin Graf presented a twelve-point programme to the National Council some time ago, very, very reasonable proposals. I can only mention a few points: Hold to the principle of research-led teaching, i.e. no classroom university; additional study places for Austrian students with the aim of finally enabling and ensuring 300 000 places of study in Austria, namely by 2015 as a target; creation of 3 000 additional posts for teaching staff at Austrian universities by 2015; Creation of a total refurbishment and replanning including a time and cost planning based on an evaluation of the spatial offer at the Austrian universities. These are just a few points, but I do not see any intention to implement them on the part of the Government Bank. But that is exactly what would be necessary, namely, finally these university billions, to enable these billions of students to do so. Unfortunately, I am not able to see God's will with you until now. We need a national power act on this issue, we need the implementation of these points. The money should be used on the one hand to increase the capacity in teaching and research, but, of course, additional infrastructure must also be invested. It is necessary to ensure that in Austria everyone who wants to study is allowed to study. It can't be like today that students who don't have a degree qualification in their respective home country then stream to us and here in Austria, our young Austrians who want to study take away the place. That's not our model, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Every young Austrian who wants to study must have a right to be able to study and take an academic path if he has developed the qualification. That's your responsibility, too. One cannot say that one would like to introduce access restrictions for Austrian students in the end, and this is reason why a mass storm from abroad takes place towards Austrian universities. You have been asked to finally put your hand on the table in the European Union and to say that this is not the way forward. We want to achieve something for our young people in Austria, namely that the country of origin principle applies again and that only those students from the European Union can come to us who have the appropriate qualifications and also in their own country the right and the possibility to study, but not those who are turning aside to us, because they have not done so in their own country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is necessary for the protection and safety of our own young people. But that's exactly where you are. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today, many young people have to sit in overcrowded audiences et cetera and thus face problems that ultimately you, namely this federal government, also have to answer, you are not yet, Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to change that. I hope you will also have the courage to take these steps in the face of this serious heritage that you are taking. I can only ask you: Do not take an example of your Minister of Finance and Head of the Party Josef Pröll, who, as far as the 2011 budget is concerned, cannot even set the exact time and say when he will have the willingness to do so at all. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] Well, one he knows, after the Vienna election in all cases, that's what he said. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Where did I say that?]] When it just fits. But that's not really exemplary. I think it takes concrete plans, it needs a concrete budget, it needs concrete goals so that we can really improve something in 2011. And since I ask you, you have the courage not only to address these things but also to try to impose them on the Minister of Finance, because he is the actual person responsible for why there is too little money in many ministries, things are blocked and can not be implemented for the benefit of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15488	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15525	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! But today, above all, Mrs. Federal Minister, Professor Magistra Doctor Beatrix Karl! I welcome you in the name of the entire ÖVP Parliamentary Club in your new role as Federal Minister for Science and Research. We all wish you every success and good for your challenging but beautiful task. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in many ways Austria stands far better than many other countries. We have managed the global economic and financial crisis better than most other countries. But we already have to be clear, we take a heavy backpack into the future from this rehabilitation phase. It is all the more important to recognize that our future success will depend in particular on how successfully we create framework conditions, especially in the field of education and research, because these will be the key areas with which we can go into a successful future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you can build on the foundations that your predecessors have created in your work waiting for you. Johannes Hahn, whom I would like to welcome very warmly here at the visitor gallery, has set important marks in higher education and research policy, for example with the University Law Novelle, with which he has created contemporary structures for the universities with more performance orientation and quality assurance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The moratorium he negotiated in Brussels has succeeded in completing the waiting list for medical studies. He has succeeded in significantly increasing the level of funding at the vocational colleges, which has never been increased since 1994, namely in a double-digit percentage. You, dear Gio Hahn, have succeeded in ensuring in the public service the A-valuability of the high-school diplomas and, finally, in the course of the government negotiations with the pooling of competence in the research and science fund with you in the ministry, to make a significant contribution that we are moving on to the 3 percent target research rate. There, particularly attention is paid to the effective allocation of resources and to the fact that the researchers, in particular, receive funds from the scientists. And this has proved to be a great success to you. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear John Hahn, we wish you every good, good success for your new task in the sense and in the interests of the regions of Europe. We will be able to benefit very much from it and from your work with certainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Education and research are on every signpost into the future. Well-trained women and men, state-of-the-art technological possibilities and research that meets international standards, all of which is the success of our economy of tomorrow. Our new Federal Minister Beatrix Karl brings the very best conditions for this, which has already been addressed in order to be able to successfully shape this policy area in the next few years. Mrs. Federal Minister Karl, because of your long-standing work as a university professor, your international experience in research, your multi-year political activity here in the High House and also your sensitivity to the concerns of students and universities, you have precisely the ideal conditions to succeed in this non-lightly office and to be able to deal successfully with this task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of universities must be increased. Where Bachelor or Master insists, Bachelor or Master must also be in it. Austria needs more graduates. That is to say, if you are studying, you should get to a degree faster. One of the main legislative projects for this year will therefore have to be the creation of a framework law on quality assurance at universities. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to motivate young people to go abroad to study. At the end of the day, Europe's harmonisation through the Bologna structure also serves this purpose. One last thing: With the budgeting of tertiary education, we are clearly and clearly on the path of spending 2% of the gross domestic product for this purpose. This path has been determined, it is disputed, and we will arrive successfully on this path even earlier than some believe. But, ladies and gentlemen, even more important than so many percentages is certain that we are actually improving the conditions and that we are continually improving these conditions in the substance. In conclusion: Mrs. Federal Minister Karl, you will find constructive partners in us here in the Hohe Haus in managing your tasks. We will support you in this work as much as possible and wish you all the best in the interests of all of us. Good luck in your new function!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15638	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15659	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs new Minister of Science! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is surprising how long it took us to have a new science minister, because the candidate herself as a former scientific spokesperson of the ÖVP is actually not so surprising. It is to ask once again the question of Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Pröll, why, despite the great efforts of the lips, both of which give up again and again, how important education is and how important the universities and the schools have been, they have simply allowed three months of valuable time to pass. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Gio Hahn...!]] Gio Hahn was no longer capable of “acting”, we all know, in a situation where thousands of young people have gone on the road to protest against the conditions. Why was it not possible to present a contact person more quickly, a negotiating new minister, already in November? Big question mark! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another question, which, in the light of your repeated knowledge of the importance of education and the importance of young people and young people, is to address both of you: Why was it not possible at this time to take a trip to Berlin to discuss burning questions, such as compensation models with Germany? Why, Mr Finanzminister, have you done without problems for the banks of Eastern Europe travel in recent years, from one capital to another, while you have not been able to travel to Berlin for Austrian students, for the international university location of Austria, and to talk to your colleague Merkel about the question of compensation payments and to achieve something? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I was in Berlin!]] And what did you accomplish? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why, in spite of a majority decision of the 2008 National Council, is it not possible for you, as Minister of Finance, to actually budget the funds that we as Parliament have assigned you to make available for the university system? Mr Kopf, this is a great mistake! Neither in the 2009 budget nor in the 2010 budget You will find this additional €200 million that we need to achieve this goal, which you constantly conjure up, in 2020, 2 percent of global economic performance will flow into universities. Why didn't that go? This also reveals something which both parties, I believe, are characterized in this question: It is an extreme separation between these lip confessions, how important young people are, how important education and training are, and what is actually being done on the other hand – something that many people feel very much. I now find this every day: an incredible anger, disappointment and also an anger, especially in the light of how your economic policy works, that within a few hours you take millions, even billions, in order to admit something important, namely saving system banks, while on the other hand, we have to fight over decades over the necessary resources in the education sector. People don't understand that anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl, I wish you all the best personally for the new task. But I was a little surprised: They were not even praised, since you have already given a very detailed opinion on your concepts on TV in the “ZiB 2” in the evening. Of course, you can do that before, only you must not wonder if you are evaluated immediately after that. I would have liked you to present these proposals in Parliament and we can open up a new dialogue here. I believe that education policy is extremely important to all of us, since I do not take out any party in this House. However, starting a proper and serious dialogue here would have been more beautiful than directing the House over the media that you want to reopen a majority decision that has been taken here, namely the abolition of the tuition fees, than your most important project as the first one. I do not think that is all right, and I would like to make a correction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have our full support when it comes to actually improving the conditions. They have full support when it comes to Put yourself on your feet and want to get your party colleague Pröll more money for the universities – fullest support of the Greens, we fight with you side by side. However, if you do not even want to try this seriously and say that this is only a wish, and you can no longer remember this decision, which could strengthen you now, in these difficult times, so the back of the sector in which it is actually invested, then you also need to understand our reaction that we are extremely disappointed, not only us, but also the hundreds of thousands of people, families who have hoped that this ÖVP blockade policy in the education sector may finally end with a new Minister of Education. [[Abg. Großruck: I don't think that's what you're saying!]] It's not just the university. What you, as an ÖVP in the field of school policy, have been blocking for years is no longer a book. This is incomprehensible given that you know what families want and expect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The families in Austria want schools all day long, they want this to be disputed, they want comprehensive models, where there are simply new, innovative approaches and where one does not have to discuss constantly about percentages of the New Secondary School, and there must be no one. But this may also be a task for you: not only for universities, but also for education as a whole, to end this Ural ÖVP blockade policy and address something new. Our support is yours! They know our concerns about the education system, and they are largely in line with those of many young people: We would like to have accessible access; Education should be accessible to all people in Austria. This applies in particular to the university sector, to the tertiary sector. Hanging up the myth of the tuition fees, these €150 million, and thinking that this will mitigate or eliminate the financial abuses of the universities is a nonsense, and you know that very well. This is a pure shock for many young people, many of whom have to work in addition to their studies and have it very, very difficult in times like this. However, this is not a source of funding for the universities, which can only, by its very nature, offset what the Minister of Finance leaves out. We should be able to meet this consensus here today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The topic should also be done once! Perhaps, as an ÖVP, one can accept that, even if a decision has been taken without you, it is nevertheless a decision and also valid, instead of repeatedly withdrawing this conflict from the moth box and thus re-establishing any constructive discussion that we now need so urgently. That would be my wish. [[Abg. Head: Will you do that in lost votes?]] We accept many lost votes, we are used to that. [[Abg. Head: And still talk about it again and again!]] But as a minister, we are bound by Parliament's decisions, are we not? The ÖVP ministers can't do what they want. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: They will still have an opinion!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just like everyone in this house!]] It is therefore also very unfortunate that you have entered so little openly into this dialogue, because you know that very, very many people invest a lot of time in this project dialogue university partnership. By June, in half- to full-day meetings, a lot of people are working on a proposal on what the new education system could look like in the university area. They have embarked on this dialogue – this is also a high figure for these people, including the high schooling: They're working with this. In fact, without a reason, you are already preaching your priorities without waiting for what really comes out of this dialogue. I'm sorry. The University Partnership Dialogue can thus be declared an end. What effect will this have if proposals are made by June? I believe that you should be honest and say the importance of this project to you, the importance of this dialogue. I would like to talk about a last point which is not directly linked to university policy, but, as I think, many people in Austria have also been very concerned: Yesterday, I believe, you all received the worrying studies on the health of children and young people in Austria. Clearly, we have become a paradise for smokers and drinking youths. And it hurts me in the soul that we have a health minister who cannot get through to make proper health protection for children and young people in Austria. [[Abg. Grossruck: Be careful!]] I think it's a scandal that Eleven-year-olds can start smoking without problems, that almost every third fifteen years smoke regularly, and I think it's a scandal that health policy in Austria is not capable of responding to it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want the drug release!]] [[Abg. Big Truck: Cannabis!]] This also belongs to the future of young people in Austria, among children and young people in Austria. And I would also like to make one comment from the Federal Government, from the tips as to how to deal with this problem. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15864	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e15886	I would perhaps like to make the following advance: I do not understand my previous speaker, because the current Minister Karl was actually quite open when she was interviewed on television and the media; she expressed her opinion, and you can do that at any time and at all times. I actually prefer the open one, than when you order someone, don't know exactly what he's up to, and then sometime is surprised by what plan or concept he really has. It was always known that colleague Karl loves to discuss controversially, we know this here in the house. On many points, we simply were not of the opinion, are still not of the opinion and will continue to debate controversially. This is much better for me than standing in front of a wall of silence, or when someone looks smart and sometime tries to take advantage of a moon window. That is why this decision is one that, as I believe, will stimulate and stimulate our discussions. I did not understand that the Greens were even discussing requests for mistrust. I have to say that quite openly here in this room. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: The government is really very fertilizing!]] But I would like to add something – and with this I would also like to make a comment on the statements of the clubman Strache –: ==References== September 2008 red, green and blue abolished the tuition fees, and it remains! And every doubt about it is unwarranted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At that time, the current Federal Chancellor Faymann was also most decisively involved in the fact that this decision is going in this direction – he already had a leadership position in the SPÖ – and therefore the suggestion was unnecessary that there would be no one to stick to it. I would also like to say that clearly. But there's something to add: If for many years – and this reminds me of the time, we were in opposition and there was another government here – saving up in the field of universities, if there is a reduction in democracy, if one pushes back the influence of middle school, pushes back the influence of the students, if one goes back to the ordination university, if one abolishes the direct election in high school, and then there is a protest movement – and one is looking for a dialogue between them to come to a conclusion through dialogue, through negotiations with this protest movement, one cannot wonder if the high school was only a "adulterior" in this movement and did not really have a leadership role. That is something we have always criticized, and that is why we have always said that the direct elections have a meaning. I myself was a member of the Central Committee and the main committee of the University of Vienna. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it's been a long time! In the last century!]] There was a direct election back then. At that time, the ÖH was always in the centre, and when negotiations were under way, the high school was also negotiating partners. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the previous millennium it was!]] Yes, Mr Westenthaler, in your time the direct elections have been abolished! You can make a contribution. If you know the university from within, you can make a contribution and say if that was really a bad decision at the time. And probably another point where we have different opinions: The Minister wants to reintroduce the tuition fees, and we are against it. [[Abg. Booker: Where are you, colleague Cap? Where is there any agreement at all?]] We want to reintroduce the direct election of high school, and she may say she doesn't want it. – We need to discuss this, and we must try to find the necessary support in the public as well. I believe that we have a fundamental debate here at all, with regard to the position: The upper level of education, those who are the social top class in society, should always remain above. – This is a conservative position. – On the other hand, the position of the Social Democrats is that we want a persuasive society. We want a society of equal opportunities. We don't want educational barriers. For us, education is also a form of social emancipation. We want – and we really want to work together with the economy, industry, even the common school of the 6- to 15-year-olds – that we can really promote the talents here. Why? – Because this in the final effect leads to the fact that skilled workers are on the labour market, because this in the final effect leads to Austria being more competitive with its economy as a whole. And, of course, this includes not only the promotions in the school sector, but also the promotion in higher education, in the university sector and in the further training areas so that we are really competitive in national and international labour markets. Anyone who wants something else, everyone who is still marching with concepts from the Middle Ages, is acting against the interests of Austria and those of the Austrian economy. That is what surprises me so much: that often in parties where economic interests are very dominant in themselves, these positions ultimately have such restraint and are prevented from finally continuing at the New Middle School, that at last the upper limit is extended and is finally done here for our children. Then: What we do for our children is for the future – and not only for the children, but in reality also for those of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: But performance may be a factor?- Oh, my God!]] We have a social picture that we should once discuss as regards persuasiveness as regards emancipation, and that this equality of opportunity is a very essential element in this context. And there are, of course, questions such as tuition or tuition fees. That's right! If 42 percent of students have to be employed during the semester, 18 percent on a case-by-case basis, 25 percent on semester holidays or summer holidays, what does that mean? – This means that the social situation is tense, and this is all the more so when study fees are to be paid. By the way: The tuition fees were not used for the universities at all in the first years of their introduction, but for stopping budget holes! I have to say that – you will all remember. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your debts!]] Mr Scheibner, you were there at the time. You should try to remember a little. Ladies and gentlemen! Education barriers are social barriers, and those who set up such barriers naturally do not want this to be an element of social emancipation over education, but they damage the final effect of the Austrian economy and that harms the final effect of the Austrian economy. And I think you should see and take that into account. The social democratic model of society is a democratic one, one of emancipation and one of equal opportunities. And that is why there is often such a controversial debate in education, and I acknowledge it! That's nothing bad. There are two different parties in this government, with a common government programme, but different. And that is why I think it was okay, Mrs Karl, that you have just said what your social image is, that you have just said that, according to what you have said here, you do not want to change at all. But now you have to expect us to make an effort to change your mind. We will really try to involve you in a dialogue and you will see that you will no longer recognise yourself at the end of the term of office. That will be our goal, that is why we will strive. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Have fun!]] Let us try, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Be a bit liberal! Let's try! I am optimistic when I turn to the Minister – I think the chances are not so bad at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the time, they took part in a decision on the increase from 1.3 percent of GDP to 2% by 2020 – one as a Member of Parliament is overtaking the time when one is in the government. Of course, we can refer to this decision again and again. I think that was also the famous 24th. September 2008, when this was decided, and this is a non-essential basis. Something else, because the Bologna process was always so critically questioned: Of course, we don't want a flowband academic; there I am characterized by my humanistic training in the Piaristengymnasium. This is a bourgeois training model, and you should be a bit proud and think of your own history, even if it is a long time ago. [[Abg. Head: With the school we have no problem, but with the result!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I have to say honestly that's the part of your story that I like, namely, that you don't just want fluid band academics, but you really want emancipated people who participate in this society in democratization processes that have an extended world view and thus learn social sensitivity that do more than just "function" in the labour market. This is the model in which social-democratic fundamental values meet with their former or still current basic values. I know many of you who, secretly, still find it better that the human image is defined more widely, and not only functionally, not only economically, that someone in the labour market not only meets the narrower economic quality criteria, but that it is more. It must be more, because we are interested in the fact that at the end of the education path, this will also contribute to – thank you for your support! – Austrian society is, for Austrian democracy, and that is why I believe that this is also an essential aspect. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: For the whole society!]] And it is therefore not a mistake to question this Bologna process a little critically – not all that comes from the EU is automatically good – but it is also necessary to check to what extent this holds true. And in this sense, I believe that this debate should continue here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16083	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16105	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Mr Cap, I think Mr Bundeskanzler can be grateful that you had only 10 minutes of speaking time, because if you had spoken for 20 minutes, it would have been a terrible joke behind me, getting up and yelling: It's enough! As the Federal Government is currently presenting itself, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an image of unity, but a picture of different positions, of disputes and of disfavor. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This is the picture we are currently being delivered. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to take the opportunity to welcome you, Mrs Beatrix Karl, to the government bank. I also wish you from our side a happy hand in dealing with the great tasks ahead of you, in dealing with these challenges, which are not minor and should not be underestimated. I would also like to see the success of Mr Johannes Hahn as an EU Commissioner in Brussels. – You should be so fair and so sincere. But, ladies and gentlemen, and I am speaking to Mr Pröll, Mr Pröll, it is already to be questioned how serious it is for you to occupy this place of business, how serious it was for you to find a candidate for the position of the Minister of Science in time. In fact, Mr Hahn has been working for three months to prepare his Commissioner for the EU, and for three months now the position of the Minister of Science has been quite odd, ladies and gentlemen. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This makes a deep look at the seriousness and seriosity of Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who is looking for a “superpractice” for three months, who is allowed to travel with him through the countries for a week, from one VIP club to the other. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Thank you for advertising!]] [[Abg. Grosz: From one buffet to another!]] This is worth three months' attention, but you don't give a candidate on the government bank enough time to prepare for and work on her office. In my view, this is not a professional way of dealing with a government activity and with the government responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and this also shows how little you really care about the real interests of this country. [[OBJECTIVES]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The science resort is a place with a whole range of construction sites. For example, I think that the study conditions at the universities have been criticised for years and days, that there is a massive protest of students every day, that the Numerus-claus refugees from neighbouring Germany, 60 000 in the number, in Austria, and students in Austria, our own countrymen, are making the courses dispute and that the rehabilitation of universities is imminent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are huge pieces that would have to be dealt with in time to prepare themselves, where one must develop a concept so that one can handle the tasks that one has to set. You have missed all this, Mr Vice-Chancellor, in your responsibility as the responsible head of your group in the Federal Government, and we are criticising this if you present your Minister of Science here today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl, we support In re-introduction of tuition fees, we are helpful to the point of convincing the SPÖ or the FPÖ – I do not know it at FPÖ – because it would be an important and appropriate measure to achieve a budget needed for the renovation and the necessary measures in the field of universities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should also like to make a proposal that we have been developing for some time, namely the university bonus model. We say: Let us give the Austrian students, everyone who makes Matura in Austria a bonus of €5,000 and in return we will introduce €5,000 to the universities! Then, thanks to the 60,000 students from abroad, you would have available € 300 million more – with a blow € 300 million more at your disposal! – with the study fees of €150 million for the renovation of universities. That would be a goal-setting way to fix this whole malaise at the universities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These would be reform approaches, but you don't want to know anything about reforms, you don't even talk to us about reforms. They do not even take the word “reform” into their mouths again – quite the contrary: Dispute, standstill and refusal of reform. That is exactly the climate in this federal government, an ice-cold climate, and government work is, as it were, at risk of freezing. [[Abg. Amon: Well, spring is coming!]] If I think only of asylum policy: 200 000 asylum refugees will be sent to Austria in the next few years – but no preparations will be made and no decisions will be made. Or with regard to the fight against crime: 97 percent of the burglaries in Vienna will not be cleared up! This is the crime statistics of last year, ladies and gentlemen. In the field of asylum policy and crime control, you are sparse, you have no concepts, you have no solutions and you are unable to make this country safer. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Asylanten-Mitzi”!]] Or: We have seen here in a survey, in a discussion about a transfer account, a transparency account, that there are completely different views in this regard. And there are conflicts and conflicts as to the anti-terrorism fight, an anti-terrorist law – there are no similarities. I'm not talking about the ORF law that you've been putting back on the long bench. In addition to the request made by the Federal Chancellor for a bank tax, there are completely different ideas as to how we ask the banks to cash. That would be quite easy, Minister of Finance: Go here and don't screw up the taxes, but the interest for the banks that have taken liability, guarantees and equity injections from us! Then you would have at one time 500 million € more in the cash register! That would be fair, because it would make you meet those banks that have also sought money from the taxpayer, and not the many small banks that are not willing to pay these interest rates. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Hypo-Bank – the biggest pleite! Carinthian Hypo!]] Or in the administrative reform: nowhere are reform approaches, nowhere proposals! And when we talk about the budget today, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: It is a certificate of poverty for a federal government if it is not able to create or adopt a budget in time for an economic crisis, but it is pushing and delaying it on the long bank. Only because of the fact that there are elections in three important states in Austria, one is not prepared to give the public pure wine and to say what burdens will come upon us in the next few years. They are based on a medium-sized tax, Mr. Finanzminister. – Tell people! Be so honest and so decent and tell people before the elections and not after the elections in the three federal states that are taking place this year in Austria. That's what we expect from you, and that would be fair. Don't try to wander over the distance here and move everything to the long bank as far as the budget is concerned. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we do not need in the economic crisis are confusion, are false representations, is refusal of work. You really have to ask yourself: What are you doing for a whole year? Are you on holiday now until you decide on the next budget next spring? [[Abg. Grosz: Mauritius! Skiing!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Jägerball, Kitzbühel, Schladming...!]] That's exactly twelve months, ladies and gentlemen, you let go. The economy now needs important signals, important impulses, it needs confidence, hope and optimism, so that it goes up again, so that we can create jobs and thus people in Austria can sleep quietly and have the certainty that politics is there for them when they need them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16324	I now give the floor to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16346	High house! Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Chancellor! Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to warmly welcome the visitors to the gallery and the spectators at home on the screens! Dear students! I come from the middle of university life, was most recently a parliamentary science spokesman and I am very pleased to be able to carry out this new function. I am proud to be a Minister of Science and Research for Austria, of course with the necessary respect for this important task. From my previous professional experience – science, research, labour law and labour law; I am a professor of labour law – I bring very important requirements that complement very well, namely, to complement very well the important challenges for politics today. Where does the work of the future come about? For me, the field of education – science and research – is of vital importance to me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is also demonstrated by the most recent analyses of the WIFO. They demonstrate the importance of education for our employees. Education means better career opportunities, education means higher income, and education also brings greater prosperity and better health. I can also bring in another important experience from my professional life. I was the second woman in Austria who has been habilitated in the field of labour law and social law. I come from a man's domain as a university professor and therefore know how important it is to support women, young scientists in this area accordingly. Of course, it is about promoting women, but in general it is also about promoting young scientists. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to focus my actions as Minister of Science and Research on three ceilings. First: Austrian science and economy need strong basic research. That means we need strong universities and excellent research institutions. Secondly, From my own experience as a teacher, I know that it is not enough if universities offer only training. Our universities must both provide training and education. The needs of the labour market are one thing, but the need for a well-founded personality formation is the other. That is why I would like to stress once again: We both need it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thirdly, I feel committed to taxpayers. As a knowledge society, we need to invest more than ever in education, science and research. One thing is clear to me: Science and research are not a luxury. I am therefore also unmistakably committed to the goal of spending 2% of GDP on tertiary education. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But another thing for me is clear: Each scientific and research euro must be used efficiently. I have responsibility for students and taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am also accustomed to express my opinion and to my opinion, and I will not change my opinion on high school policy issues either. You've known my position on the study contributions for a long time. You know that I believe that the study contributions have proved successful. But I also know that I am not going to find the necessary majority here in Parliament at the moment. But I still take the right to have an opinion. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where was the applause of the SPÖ? Josef Cap, where was the applause, the enthusiasm storm?]] Another point that is important to me is that we need to work on new concepts of higher education. We will not avoid developing new concepts here. I am of course aware that the regulation of university access is not the most elegant solution to solve the problems at mass universities, but it is a necessary solution. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I can't serve you a ready menu here today. I'm still in office a lot too short for that. I would, however, like to highlight the common path and a constructive cooperation, namely a constructive cooperation for the design of the Austrian university space. But what you rightly expect from me today is that I present you with clear ideas about how I want to start and do my work. To this end: Of course, the University Partnership Dialogue which has already been discussed on several occasions is continuing. It has proved to be a very important forum for discussion and work. I would like to thank all the institutions and organisations involved and to contribute constructively here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, the Connex between science and the economy is also important to me. Without the necessary economic space, freedom in science and research cannot develop. We must answer an important question: What can our universities contribute to consolidation and economic growth? Finally, I would also like to mention another important point which has already been raised today. Of course, it is also about the inner Austrian implementation of the Bologna process, i.e. the system Bachelor, Master and Ph.D. Unfortunately, this implementation in Austria has not been successful everywhere, and here I say quite clearly: Where repair needs exist, we must not wait, but act. My goal is: Studies must be studyable, high quality and internationally recognised, and teachers should find appropriate working conditions. That means we have to go back to the core of the Bologna philosophy. The Bologna model is only as good as its implementation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So let us not make this good idea a scapegoat for all the problems at our universities, but rather say yes to the common European Higher Education Area together and work together on the existing problems! There are no doubt these problems, but I am convinced that we can solve them together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, it is also important to me that we develop the higher education sector. It is clear to me, of course, that further expansion of the courses cannot take place from today to tomorrow. But I would like to make sure that the very successful development of higher education continues. I have already addressed university access. On the one hand, we must take into account the national dimension and, on the other hand, the necessary emergency regulations. Secondly, of course, it is important to consider the European dimension that has already been discussed. That is to say, we need to find a successor to the EU moratorium in the field of medicine and dentistry. Of course, I am here not only as a Minister of Science, but also as a Minister of Research, and in the context of the Federal Research Strategy, it is very important for me to anchor basic research at our universities and excellent research institutions accordingly. In the fields of research and development, like my predecessor, Gio Hahn, I will work for a research funding law. Budgetary planning and security are of great importance in the field of research and development. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] If research and development can rely on the public hand, that means an priceless location advantage. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a research location in recent years, Austria has actually achieved a great catch-up in the top European field. This path must continue. However, we can only continue this course if we actively promote young people. I also feel responsible for the prospects for the future of young people, both in the field of research and in the field of science. However, a very important question needs to be clarified in advance, namely: Which school system does our knowledge society actually need? What do schools need to do for a successful start to their studies? I see it as a task of science and research to already inspire the children in the kindergarten for research. Let's not forget one thing: Today's smart little ones are the innovative big ones of tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, however, secondary education is also a source of debt to universities and colleges, namely, in terms of the performance and performance of our maturants. I would like to stress once again that science and research are not a luxury for me: They are simply our best investment in the future, ensuring jobs and competitiveness. So let's set an innovation turbo together! Our common goal should be: Creating knowledge, increasing quality and securing the future. Let us work together to find ways to achieve this goal. My way, and I assure you, is the way of dialogue. I have already agreed an appointment with the Austrian University School for the next week and will also agree an appointment with the representatives of the student movement. I simply ask you to work together to make the most of the Austrian university and research area, and I am looking forward to the dialogue and cooperation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16531	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16552	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl, welcome to your new role here in the house! However, allow me to say a few words to your predecessor, who attends the debate, when the rulers have calmed down. I would like to thank the former Minister, Mr Hahn, for the good cooperation. Indeed, we were not always of the same opinion, have often had tougher discussions and negotiating situations with each other, but always in a good discussion climate, as it is for a good political culture. And I would like to thank you for this and wish you all the best for your new task. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you are all right for the difficult challenge you have taken over at a time that does not make this task easy for you. I look forward to working together. We have already been able to play and practice a little bit in your old role and in my role as a science speaker. I am looking forward to further cooperation and I hope that we will continue the dialogue climate that we had with Minister Hahn. I build on it, insisting that in the design of science policy in the coming years, we will at least start from a common basic attitude, namely a basic attitude that says that we want to offer more young people in our country the opportunity to learn good education. I am very optimistic, according to your current statements, that we are taking the same line here, and quite on your side, that it is also, but not only about offering the young people at the universities training in the narrow sense, but that a university study has a lot to do with education, with personality education. It is very important, therefore, to point out that when we talk about the questions: Do we need more students or fewer students?, which framework conditions do we shape?, always have to be aware that we have to make life opportunities of young people to a large extent here, and we have to be aware of this responsibility that the individual measures are always about life opportunities for young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although I already know you very well, Mrs Federal Minister, I was a little surprised at what first accents you set, which was particularly important to you, where we still remember the autumn together with the student protests. Not least, these student protests have been triggered by the fact that the students of their predecessors in the winter semester have received exactly these signals over and over again, they have always heard: “Ansturm at the universities”, even: “Threatful storm at the universities”. We need fewer students, it's called, access restrictions and study fees. – Not least that has triggered the student protests: this mood that the young people have felt that we are not welcome at the universities at all. Therefore, from me here a clear confession on our part: Of course, we are about to give more young people the opportunity to find a good educational situation and have a good training in the future. For our part, I would also like to make it clear that we need more academics in this country, not only to increase the academic rate in abstract terms, but also, as mentioned earlier, because it is also about better opportunities for life for the individual young people. Not only do we have fewer academics than other countries, we have – and this is stressed here – fewer students than other countries. That is why we need a science policy that motivates young people to go to universities, to colleges and to take advantage of the opportunities there. And this especially in a time when we have not yet overcome the consequences of the crisis, in which young people do not find the best job opportunities, for example after the Matura. We have the responsibility to ensure that young people are taken up with open arms where they have the opportunity to continue to qualify. This is important and much, much better than young people standing on the street. We have a very important responsibility here. As far as the tuition fees are concerned, Mrs Bundesminister, there has already been clarification from the Federal Chancellor and from our clubman: The tuition fees will not be introduced with us. The government programme continues to apply. Even if a new science minister takes up her office, both of us will benefit from the negotiated government programme. While I would like to support you very much, the improvement of the study conditions – you have mentioned this – is the improvement of the study conditions for both students and teachers. And of course we don't come around the core: It will be a matter of taking the appropriate budgetary resources into consideration in the next few years. I very much welcome your commitment, which you have expressly made here today, but I must say that I have very missed this point in the speech of the Minister for Finance here today. It was nice, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you presented us with the Vita of the new Minister, but I would have expected from you, in your role as Minister of Finance, the commitment to the need for the corresponding budgetary resources in the field of education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope that, before you took office, Mrs Federal Minister, you have agreed to a serious discussion with your party chairman, the Minister of Finance, which conditions are necessary to make a good science policy, and I hope you have also made it clear that in the future the corresponding budgetary resources will be urgently needed. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Don't worry!]] As far as your ambition is concerned, new signals have been sent to you – and I have heard this with great attention – to bring about a solution at European level with regard to the German Numerus-clausus refugees. There was Your predecessors are not so excited to have the appropriate discussions at European level. We need a fair solution here, a fair and reasonable solution, because we really cannot – so sorry we do, because we want an internationalization at our universities – we are not able to train all students who do not find a study place in Germany in our country. There must be an appropriate solution at European level. The Foreign Minister has also made such statements. Mrs. Federal Minister, we will fight a lot of shit together over the next few months, but I hope we will not lose sight of the fact that this is an important joint future project for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16612	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16633	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Federal Government! Estimated, dear Beatrix Karl as new Federal Minister for Science and Research! I can truly say that we are delighted about this nomination, about this appointment, because with Beatrix Karl, not only is an experienced politician in the Federal Government, but also – and I believe this has become visible in an impressive way in the presentation of her CV – an excellent science expert, if I can say so, who not only has been successful at Austrian universities and has made a career, but has also been active in two international, non-Austrian research institutions and thus, I believe, is really predestined to become a successful science and research minister. [[A little delayed by the use of the ÖVP.]] – At least the applause is justified on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! However, Beatrix Karl is not only professionally and politically qualified for this activity, but I would also like to say, as a Styrian MP, that we are very pleased that a steward is moving into the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] – Of course, I invite all country teams to enjoy it. – We have more Styria in the Federal Government. This is also important because the Styria is of course also an important university country. That is, I think, an essential point. I would also like to take a little note of Mr Klubobmann Cap's statement, which meant that he will try to work more intensively with his group as a whole over the next few years on the Minister of Science and she will not recognise her positions at the end. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Kopf and Dr. Stummvoll.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That was a joke!]] I would like to answer with Reinhard P. Gruber and his “Hödlmoser” and say: Steir blood is not a raspberry juice! – Mr Cap, that you are not wrong! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] That you do not underestimate the possibility that in the end you do not recognize your positions at all! We trust the Beatrix Karl in all cases. Beatrix Karl is – and how could this be different for a scientist and researcher – a curious person, but she is one who has strong roots. In this regard, one could quote the great Styrian cultural politician Hann's Koren, who meant, home is deep and not narrow – for what you can certainly not blame Beatrix Karl is some form of tightness. On the contrary: It is one of those who listen very closely to positions, but who do not forget their position, and I believe that it is a particular member of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that Federal Minister Karl referred to the problem of the Numerus-clausus refugees and tried to find a solution. But this also shows, of course, that, as far as the EIA is concerned, it is supposed to be too little geared towards other European countries in the field of education, school and teaching, for example, when looking at school's organisational questions, the argument can be very well returned here: Do some political groups in this House not look too little at what is happening in the European higher education area? – There is practically no more country across Europe that does not either collect study contributions or in any form carry out a study site management. That is, I think, a central point, because it is not only about Mr Cap – I agree with a hundred percent – that we want to have access to the university without barriers and a full permeability throughout the education system – that is, I believe, incontrovertible – but also to ensure that those who want to study can also study, it must be ensured that those who want to perform in the Austrian education system can also do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – It cannot be that performance in the Austrian education system does not apply and that it is put in place! Beatrix Karl has outlined a number of higher education and education positions which I would like to underline: It is consensus in the Federal Government and, as I hope, also with the opposition parties – our clubman has mentioned this – that we can achieve this 2-percent BIP target for the university area, and I think we are on a very good path. It is not, Mrs Kuntzl, as you said, that the Minister of Finance would make too little money available for education! I remember the situation before Christmas, when even hours of work for rent were suddenly available, for example, in the school sector, to pay them at once – which is pleasing, but it also indicates that the Minister of Finance has made sufficient money available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Beatrix Karl has referred to the commitment to the ideas and goals of the Bologna process, which also has to do with the known trinity in the university system; she has known herself to expand student and maternal advice, which, I believe, is a very important thing, namely to take the right course of education in each case – an educational path that young people choose very often together with their parents or then in the university field alone – so that young people are treated carefully with the lifetime of young people, and she has become familiar with a variety in Austrian higher education. Overall, I think that was a very impressive presentation of the new Minister for Science and Research. Dear Beatrix, we wish you all the right on this path, good luck and a happy hand for the Austrian education system!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16731	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16752	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam Federal Minister Beatrix Karl, no doubt you have proven your qualification at university level, and no one makes you disputed – you can be proud of it, and perhaps this pride will also “overwhelm” all of us, but you have to earn it first in this area. We from the Freedom Party are not in such a way that, in the case of new ministerial occupations, we have been mistrusted in the first place, on the contrary: We are rather heading in the direction that you will receive a confidence advance from us and that we wish you a good start in this context. However: Distrust, which in the end expresses itself in the free opinion someone has, I consent to everyone. We are the ones who grant all their own opinions. I believe that there is also consensus on this, with the exception of a party in this House, that of the Greens, who always, if someone has a different opinion, whether political or political, or wherever it may be, encounter the whole with distrust. I am glad that the Federal Minister for Justice has also experienced this because she has sent a legislative initiative on the journey through which a massive attack on freedom of expression is planned. You see how some of these will live then, since they already distrust anyone who has a different opinion today! It may then come so far that you are in prison soon, and we want to prevent that in this context. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – No, Mrs Beatrix Karl, you are of course entitled to your opinion! You, Mrs. Dr. Karl, are now Federal Minister. Of course, we could agree that it lasted for three months – we did not understand it, because it was not really such a difficult decision; the comparison with the superpractice, whose finding Mr. Vice-Kanzler Pröll has already been brought to the attention – but we also understand it, because it was not quite certain whether Mr. Ex-Bundesminister Hahn was going at all because he still had to skip some obstacles, and perhaps that was also with a reason in this regard. But we would have been delighted if you had not expressed your opinion, which nobody would have wanted to take away from you, on the occasion of your appointment to the new Federal Minister in the public, but if you looked into the future and – According to your own definition, you took over in your “ZiB-2” interview construction sites – some visions focused on the future. Friendlyly, the then ORF journalist did not ask indiscriminately which construction sites you took over, because you mean – that is to say – but we are of course interested in this. In our opinion, it is certainly not a construction site that we have too many students at Austria's universities, on the contrary: We already have too many restrictions on access today. And we want Austrians to be able to study in Austria what they want and not vice versa – and it is the task of politics to achieve this for the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are not too few students! I know that someone will then take out the new kind of foreigners' heat when it comes to Germans, and that will always be widened – also by the BZÖ, of course also by the SPÖ. Yeah, it's right. We have 17 000 students from the Federal Republic of Germany in Austria. However, we have a total of 45 000 foreign students at Austria's universities. That is to say, the 17,000 are spoken of, so that the scapegoat is found, and the other 28,000 people are silent – they are not scapegoats! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can see what's going on: One only needs to have a certain type of passport, namely that of a German citizen or that of an Austrian, then access is restricted in Austria, for all others it is not limited. – On the other hand, we keep in mind that the passport is to be placed there when it comes to whether you have access in Austria or not. You have to find smart models that need time, of course, until they reach out. But we also need one – and this also does not matter if you hold up education in this Federal Government: We need a top-level reform! We are always talking about the school of students up to 14 or 15 years old, but in my opinion, the upper-level reform is much more important because our schools are not as bad as they are partly spoken. I estimate the primary school in the federal states as he is, and the primary school in the agglomerations has only the problem that too many foreigners or people with non-German mother tongues go to these schools. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is really what we have to do if we want to become the Lord as a whole, and not to do with school systems. In the upper level, however, we need a reform because Matura, as one of the access requirements for a study, obviously no longer brings what is expected of it – at least from the target institutions, universities and tertiary education. Mrs Bundesminister, I hope we will have much to negotiate and discuss in the future! They come from Parliament, which is excellent to you towards your two predecessors, and I hope you will now also take along my or our wish at this point: It is good that there is a dialogue with experts outside Parliament, it is good to talk a lot about the situation in the tertiary education sector outside of Parliament, but it would also be very, very good if, at last, a lot more here in Parliament, where decisions are to be made, would be discussed! I would remind you of the following, Mr Cap, that in the last two years you have rejected our request for direct elections to the Austrian high school with your SPÖ twice – only for the sake of honesty, because a subject is also that if you speak differently than you then vote, you will not be taken seriously at some point, Mr Cap: It is true that we agreed to hold a broad discussion on the 2008 UG in a subcommittee, and then it was cancelled. There wasn't even a review of the Novel Law 2008! Let me compare: There are few top athletes in Austria, who are baptizing, immediately – quite rightly – to investigate what one can do about it, a broad subcommittee is set up, a parliamentary discussion is held and a good result is achieved. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] But when it comes to setting up a subcommittee on the subject of university, when there are construction sites there – and they are undoubtedly there – then there is no willingness from these two government parties and from this government to do so. We therefore call for more dialogue where it is to take place, namely in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16855	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16877	Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl, Congratulations! I can't thank Mr. Hahn because he's not here anymore – otherwise I would have done it. So we're having a science and university debate today, and I'm going to face such groundbreaking findings as the fact that steir blood is not a raspberry juice. – I would have known that before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Word aids that I have known for years are repeated: Efficacy, key role, opportunities for youth, jobs. If any of these words, these lip confessions had found the way into reality, the discussion would be easier and the task for the new Federal Minister would probably not be so difficult. It is therefore difficult – I say so openly – because many of us in the Federal Government – and probably too many of us in Parliament – are the Science and research in the case of weitems do not give the importance they are constantly talking about. The path from mouth to heart – that was also called – and then in particular until the wallet is a mile away. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It was spoken of as key functions, but the safe remains closed. There's the dialogue, and I like it. There are open words, honest words, and it's going to be exciting, because it's really – and not surprising at all – a few points where there could be a consensus, but without money it won't go, even if it's boring to talk about money. If the words competition, excellence and competition are always put into the mouth, one must also give the scientists and students the opportunity to find conditions that make them competitive and do not disadvantage them, and I lack this confession. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I was shocked because I had to comment on the new woman's minister in media society relatively quickly – this is unfortunately in the media society – and yet accused her of getting into some sort of suspicion, to stand in faithfulness to a non-unknown, backward-turned EIA education policy. – In our ranks there are no seniors for nibelungen, you can imagine that, but you can already talk about fidelity. What I mean is this: It is of course beautiful, good, neat, sympathetic and okay, loyal and loyal to a party to stand with her through thick and thin, but right and wrong is a different pair of words than thick and thin. Tarn and Dive is another pair of words, and I already imagine – contrary to what has been said in some speeches – to remain faithful to myself, because in research it is so that you leave well-known terrain, take a risk, take a venture, always have to correct yourself, be open to surprises and changes, and I would have liked to hear that too. Only loyally do what your predecessors have tried – and they have not succeeded! – I don't think so much. Confessing oneself to basic research is also beautiful, but the reality so far speaks quite different words: It is mainly promoted and exponentially stronger the applied research, which is not even research, but nothing but hidden economic promotion. – You should call it that, then it's okay, but let's call it that! The fact that party owners and club members call their own minister of course unique and the best choice is no wonder, and I think that this is normal, only – with all her merits – only the lifetime spent at the university alone is too little for me, as with the lifetime experience, consequences, conclusions that are really innovative in any way. When I hear: We are now making a turboinnovation!, then these are again such Gehrer’s keywords, and I will draw your attention to the fact that the turbomotor is at least 30 years old and at Weitem is not as innovative as you believe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Again: Education is not training! That's where Klubobmann's head says: As many graduates as possible in as short a time as possible, and I've got the suspicion again that he's confusing a study with a wind dog race. I thought people would have finally understood that! Mr Grasser has created and meant the term “orchidean compartments”, he can distinguish between useful and necessary and unnecessary, perhaps esoteric subjects. So it's about sugar beet and rape against Orchi. deen and flower beds. – The Krautacker always wins, that is so, and I seriously wonder if one should wish for such a thing at the university. In the legal system, among many experts – I was also invited to do so – it was discussed that the Bakkalaureat did not qualify for the core professions of a lawyer. You'd have to react to that! You said you'd think about it. – I want to believe it and hope that it will happen this way, but I also want to learn not only all the laws externally, but perhaps also to consider which legal and illegal concepts are sociological, cultural, punishment and so on. - It should not be shortened! [[Interim note from the government bank.]] – What should it be? – I think that is necessary. What other things are going on, I tell you: There has been tremendous progress in molecular biology. A year ago, there was fear of hybrid beings, human breeding. That's all nonsense! As if Austria were living in a pre-reconnaissance age! Man has in himself large parts of all those genes that have emerged in the world since ancient times. 90 percent are covered with those of the domestic pig – no one is allowed to be offended – 90 percent with those of the mouse. We carry sequences of viruses, of bacteria in us, and many things work very similar, some identical. This is just a sign that we are in this world, live in it and are part of this world. – To do that, it needs to be informed! I have once experienced the following – now the time will probably be over soon –: [[the speaker notices the flashlight at the speaker's desk]] As a little boy, I had a friend who was four years old, who taught me to ride a bicycle. – 20 years later I saw her in the clinic, and then her X-ray picture. That looked like snow stowers, into which you threw two handfuls of large white cherries – all metastases. There is no molecular biology, no pharmacy, and there are but there were study directions and places at the universities where we could talk about such things – about such peripheral areas, but they are elementary. I would not be ungrateful if you were to protect these areas and directions of study and not sacrifice the pure usefulness.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e16992	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17032	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Karl, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on your appointment as Minister of Science and hope that in good habit, as Gio Hahn managed, we will have good discussions with each other and will also deal with the topics in the field of science in terms of content. However, I must note the following: Science, research and education policy bears responsibility for Austria's future and remains sustainable. I believe that if, in recent years, transport policy in Austria had been made the same as science policy, then we would have a construction site every five kilometres on the West motorway. In fact, science policy is a single construction site, and the responsibility lies not only with the Minister of Science, but also with the Federal Government as a whole and also with the Minister of Finance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If a minister of expertise makes a decision and then this decision is overturned if he wants more money but does not get it, then he is ultimately bound. It was interesting for me to see how “serious” this federal government, in particular the ÖVP, takes science policy, because if you leave 100 days to fill a job, although you already know who it will be, then you know, especially since the criteria were clear, namely: It had to be a woman, it had to be a bully, and she had to be from the ÖAAB. There was a single candidate here in the House who is in question for this, and I am already wondering what subjective objectivation or objective subjectivation the ÖVP has done there, because the result was clear from the very beginning. In the end, however, this has damaged the scientific location of Austria. With regard to the university protests, which were quite understandable, namely, as an expression of students, that many things do not fit, that there is too little money to leave many questions open in access to the studies, I must say: I was also a little disappointed about the action of your predecessor, Mrs Minister, because he did not find it worth the effort to enter into a dialogue with the students immediately and ask themselves in the Audimax their questions. Unfortunately, the university dialogue came in very late, and I'm already excited about what's coming out of it. I would like to say one thing – Mr Graf has already said it quite correctly –: We do not want a parallel government, we do not want parallel negotiations, we want living parliamentaryism here in the Austrian Parliament. I therefore expect the new Minister to see the interim results of the Uni-Dialogue coming into the committee in time to enable us to consult them in depth and to reach a final conclusion, otherwise we will lose valuable time, which will ultimately go off to the students. I also expect to see the same kind of law matrices in the future. In the end, the UG-Novelle was only ‘explained’ between the Party Secretariats of ÖVP and SPÖ, whereas the Members were hardly or not involved in this question. To university access we have a clear model from the BZÖ: We want an orderly, high-quality course management, and we want to ensure this by requiring registration fees of € 5 000, which, by the way, are a matter of course throughout Europe, around the world. That is already happening in many countries. We also want to introduce a so-called university bonus of € 5 000 for the Austrians. This means in the clear text that free access to the universities for Austrians is guaranteed, but those students who come from other countries must pay for their studies here, as is the case internationally, where we can see that this is not a problem. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To illustrate this – Mr Graf is no longer here –: This applies not only to the 14 000 Germans who – and there is a particularly large overhang – study in Austria, but to all 60,000 foreign students in Austria. That was a nice sum, that is, €300 million, which we would also have for our universities. The medical students look like this: 75 percent of study places are reserved for Austrians, 25 percent are available for foreigners, 20 percent of them for students from EU countries and 5 percent for students from non-EU countries. Of these 25 percent trained doctors, only 1.5 percent remain in Austria. There is already the question: Who are we paying the training for? Are we helping the whole of Europe, for the whole world? Here doctors receive their training, which is financed with our tax money, and then they leave Austria again. In my opinion, this is the wrong procedure. There is a need to consider rules that prevent this from happening throughout Europe. In this sense, we are going to make the sample of nails today and take a first step on the question of tuition fees, where we will support you, Mrs Minister, and today we will make a request for the reintroduction of tuition fees. We want to see what your word is worth today – including the ÖVP Group – or whether what you said here today were pure flakes, pure announcements. We also want to see if your group is behind you. I therefore make the following request: [[Resolution]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is an application that is absolutely free for you, but which constitutes a principle for you to negotiate in this direction. I think this path is right so that we can finally get the students away. In fact, it has shown itself to be: In introducing the study fees, about 45 000 students are so to speak “fleet” – students who have never graduated, who were only at the university because they have received some advantages from the tax pot. With tuition fees we have a steering effect, we have more money for the universities, and for those who really need it, there is a corresponding social security in the form of study aid. That means no one needs to say that this would be an educational blockade, as Mr Cap said, but it is what happened here, a think blockade. There are tuition fees across Europe, there are all over the world, only in Austria it is not possible to think about it, because it is raised to the class struggle. We also need a reorganisation in the university landscape. We have 21 universities, 19 FHs, 12 private universities and 14 educational universities with over 300,000 students. There are approximately 300 Bachelor's and 400 Master's degree programmes alone at the universities and colleges. One has to rethink this, one has to evaluate it in the sense of the Bologna process and ensure that acceptance increases and the problems associated with it are eliminated. I would also like to address the question of e-voting – also a wonderful point that you have to address and which you have to rethink. On the research, technology and innovation strategy in Austria, I say once again: There are six posts in Austria that are responsible for research, technology and innovation: the Chancellor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Education. That's where a bundle is done. We have been waiting a long time for an overall strategy in this area to pool the forces here, but instead, the chancellor prefers to act populistly by increasing the research premium – and that was it then. Unfortunately, an overall concept is missing to this day. I do not believe that this will allow us to achieve the desired research and development rate from 3 percent to 2013. We just need more money for the university. But we also need a balance between basic research and applied research. That's very important. In this sense, I welcome it if you put a research funding law on your feet. Finally, allow me a sentence: We in Upper Austria want a medical union. The facts are on the table. There is a medical need in Upper Austria, throughout Austria. We'll have a medical defect in the next few years, that's a fact. There is already an overall concept for this. Mrs Minister, meet Here you quickly make a decision – for the benefit of the Austrians, but also of the Upper Austrians! To conclude: You will not have a time, not because we are malicious, but because Mr Vice-Chancellor has taken you away from your time of government for 100 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17184	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17244	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17266	I too, as an educational speaker of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group, may join in the congratulations: We are pleased that Mrs. Dr. Karl is bringing a competent and committed woman into the science community. However, I do not share – as the Federal Chancellor clearly stated at the outset – your statements on study fees and access restrictions. There the fronts are clear; this is to be clarified at the beginning. But I agree to a hundred percent of your statement that you want to lead universities and research policy to the international top. Austria is to become a country of bright heads Mrs Minister, two things need to be done: On the one hand, the situation at universities, in the university landscape in general and in students in particular, needs to be improved in a sustainable way. We will support you with all our strength. On the other hand, however, in order to reach the international summit, the pedagogical base must also vote. We need an education system that promotes performance, improves the opportunities for future generations to be educated and gives all children the training that corresponds to their abilities. Only a strong educational education foundation is the basis for high-performance universities. Ladies and gentlemen, education continues to depend in Austria on the educational level of the parents. Only 16 percent of the children of parents with compulsory schooling go to an AHS upper level or to a BHS. Austria's academic rate is 16 percent EU-wide, with the EU average of 24 percent significantly above that. Therefore, we must not let go of it in the further development of the school of the future. In this school of the future are promoting and demanding the words of magic. Our Minister of Education Claudia Schmied has already taken decisive steps in this area, for example the early promotion, the compulsory kindergarten year, the maximum number of school students at last introduced, that is to say, smaller classes. That is to say, 7 000 planning sites more after years of education stopping and dwindling. Further: Development of support education, development the development of German funding courses, the introduction of the New Middle School, the introduction of new education standards and the New Matura – key challenges for the universities of the future. We have to continue this educational offensive, which is my appeal to the new Minister of Science. Mrs Karl, the Minister of Education, I am counting you to help those within the ÖVP who are poised enough to overcome the calcified structures in the educational landscape. That is why I also appeal to you: Help you to avoid – including in the field of the New Middle School – the threatening educational stop that you obviously want to take out for percentage reasons! I too believe that you, Mrs Karl, once said something similar; I have read it – that the common school is a good and right way for the future. I am convinced of this – and we will continue to fight for it. And: Through the New Middle School movement has come to secondary level I, movement into these starved fronts. At the schools outside, which one did not believe at all at the beginning, there really were many “oases. ” Teacher teams have formed, new teaching methods have been introduced into our primary schools. I think it would be important and right to continue this step, and I therefore appeal to you, Mrs Minister: Do everything in your power – including within the ÖVP Group – to enforce those 70 new secondary schools that are now prevented by a 10 percent clause. I was proud of it and I have been working to ensure that there is a special arrangement for Vorarlberg. Almost all of Vorarlberg has the New Middle School. What prevents us from other federal states – whether Carinthia, Upper Austria or Tyrol – from opening up these opportunities? As a new Minister of Science, Mrs. Dr. Karl, you have the crucial word – and if you make your contribution to it within your group, then these schools, which are unable to take this opportunity now, also have a chance that those dedicated teachers who are unable to take advantage of these opportunities now will have their parents who place great hopes in them, but still have a chance that these schools will be able to move forward in the next school year, as a new secondary school. – Thank you very much and good luck for your work!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17342	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17363	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Today, the focus is on reporting and public attention. This broad interest in science, research, science and research policy is particularly important, because science policy needs the public, needs our high interest, needs discussion – and lives on innovation. The former Federal Minister and future Commissioner Dr. Johannes Hahn, in his inimitable calm manner, has provided precisely for the public, which is necessary to provide the appropriate means to provide the appropriate framework conditions to provide further development of the Austrian site in the international research landscape. I should therefore like to thank you at this point, Dr. Hahn, very much for your sustainable activities; our clubman has already listed a lot of things. In addition, I would like to stress the recent projects, which are particularly important, namely the topic of higher education dialogue, the topic of co-examination, the topic of novels of the UOG, but also the initiation and current discussion on the research funding law. I should like to congratulate you, Mrs Beatrix Karl, on this great challenge from this point of view, on this exciting task. You can now actively implement the variety of experiences you have gained in this creative role. – I look forward to working with you and wish you a lot of joy, endurance, but above all, we all have a lot of success for this policy. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our common goal is to achieve the target of 2%. Why do we need these? – Finally, every strategy is only as good as it is quantified. In the university dialogue, we see how important it is to talk to each other. Finally, each one of us will have to distance itself from its ideological positions, and we will have to develop one another financing models, where the public and private hands will be synchronized in different models, allowing for important changeovers for the future. I would like to point out at this point, because, for the first time, dissatisfaction has occurred, especially with the special universities in Austria, and in addition to my previous speakers, because the ÖVP has just initiated a way in Europe that has been taken in the UOG 2002 with regard to the further development of the arts: Six independent art universities were founded and thus the social importance of the arts is thus deliberately institutionally anchored. Mr. President, Mr. Hahn has recognised art as an equivalent part of the scientific society and has supported it by financing a programme of his own for the development and development of the arts within the framework of the FWF for the future in Europe. This has a lasting effect on the future. I am pleased that you, Mrs. Federal Minister Karl, will continue this course, because science and development of the arts are two concepts that belong together, as well as research and teaching belong very closely together. In conclusion, Mrs Federal Minister, I should like to take up one of your priorities, namely to intensify the importance of basic research in the future. Basic research is, as it were, the fuel for radical innovations in the future and ensures high-quality jobs in an environment of university foundations. Especially the scientific and economic location in Vienna enables new start-ups of businesses, allows many innovations. We know that the more we invest in research, the more patents are filed by companies, or the more new business settlements there are, the more new products become possible, precisely through the interaction of science and business. Knowledge creates work! This slogan has taken up Mrs. Federal Minister Karl – and this will accompany us. For this it will be necessary for the future of the location Austria appropriate framework conditions, corresponding commitment and professionalism in politics. Mrs. Federal Minister, I am pleased that you have taken this opportunity and will help us develop the economic location of Austria together not only in Styria, but also throughout Austria. Good for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17436	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Mrs Bundesminister, I would first like to congratulate you on the new office. The Federal Chancellor has already said that it may also be a heavy office, and he has also mentioned that your predecessor, Mr. Hahn, has cut off well and that this position has therefore become free. However, I would like to say that the former Minister, Mr Hahn, also knows because he knew his questions in advance. He has prepared himself well, and also the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank will know how “heavily” it is to pass a test when you know the questions. [[Call the ÖVP: That's embarrassing!]] But back to you, Minister Karl. I recall the last committee meetings and your discussions with the students and professors in the working group. Their statements were clear, clear, hard: There is no way to go through study fees and access restrictions and Bologna must be a must – the same views that have actually led us into these, you can say, embroidered positions, which have been a difficult inheritance so far. All right, after Her party leader Pröll has now found his “superintern” after three months – she is a real professional, has already worked with other ministers and is employed in an ÖVP-near agency – he now also has his Federal Minister. .I don't know if you were the first to vote, Mrs. Federal Minister. In any case, in the refreshing interview you gave Tarek Leitner in the ORF, I have observed your positions, and it seems to me that they are the same again that you have already represented as a member of the committees. We have therefore submitted a request to you. One request can be answered a little longer and more in two months than the questions in an 8-minute interview. That's where we want to see the paint-must test: What about your attitude on the various future issues and on our 12-point plan for Austrian science? Mrs Bundesminister, I also have three wishes for you. The first wish: They themselves come from the university sector and from a self-proclaimed economic party. My wish therefore goes towards cost accounting for the universities. I would have liked you to be able to say, in two years' time, that at all universities there are clear calculations and calculations in all institutes or departments, which really cost an hour, that is, beautifully separated into the fields of research and teaching, so that you can really say where there is savings potential at the universities and where not. It is clear to me that there are differences between internal hourly rates and how the universities sell compared to the economy, but we want to see the cost-saving potential. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second point, as mentioned today, is the Medical Union in Linz. I know that the ÖVP is like no second master in taking different positions in the countries and the federal government. Example schools: The federal government is blocked, but in the countries the ÖVP demands the new primary schools. When the blockade comes, the ÖVP officials in the federal states are excited. You can see that now in Upper Austria. There is a large part of the new allocations for the New Secondary School, let us say, politically clear directors, and when the school attempt is over, one will see what the impact this will have on the assessment of this school experiment. Mrs. Federal Minister, please don't make any tactility out of this medical union in Linz! Please respond to the same demands that your own country group places there, and quickly implement this point! A third point is the means of research and science itself. The economy needs many good, suitable graduates – natural scientists, as the colleague of the Greens has already mentioned today, but also technicians, men and women with expertise and, above all, with international experience. Promote natural sciences such as those in Linz! Our goal must really be that Austria should take a pole position in research and development. There's no room for tacting and party-political change. I would also like to make an appeal to you. Even though you may not have been the first choice of your party leader, bring your experience, and this is quite rich, in politics and in work, so that in science in Austria something goes on and Austria can continue to take a future position!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17535	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17567	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday at the University Dialogue in the Ministry of Science – by the way, by the way, no Members were there, not from SPÖ, so much about the seriousness of this dialogue – Mr Faulmann, General Secretary-General, whom I very much appreciate... [[Abg. May. Molterer: Faul hammer!]] – Faulhammer, apologise, Friedrich Faulhammer, thank you. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You should know that!]] – No, no, I know that, but it was always confused yesterday, and now it has happened to me immediately today, too; but this is not the subject. Secretary General Faulhammer introduced two very terrifying threats to all present. The first was that he meant that there was no need for anyone to be afraid that the new minister would not continue the course, which has so far been run by Minister Hahn. Ladies and gentlemen, this course, we know, has led to the sharpest protests for decades not only of students but also teachers. Minister Hahn left a single construction site. A construction site – he said that himself and admitted it to it – would not be bad at all. The current Minister has also confirmed that there is this construction site. A construction site is then nothing bad if something is built there, but this construction site is a permanent one, and nothing happens, ladies and gentlemen. There's shit there, there's noise there, and there's dust there – and otherwise there's nothing: There are no plans, and there is no one working there. This construction site, which the ministers of the ÖVP and the ministers of the Ministry of Education are operating permanently, cannot be a positive one. I would like to add a few more to the things that have not happened to all the things that have been listed so far. Nothing moves in terms of the perspectives of the teachers, the young scientists and scientists who eventually want to see opportunities to achieve anything. There is also nothing to be done in connection with teachers who make educational efforts, who really care for the students. They have disadvantages, they stay on the track and they are actually punished. Nothing happens in the area of accessibility at all – not only social accessibility, we have already heard this today, but also actual, physical accessibility. There's nothing that's moving. Nothing moves – and this is a very important point – in connection with the fully inflated administrative apparatus and bureaucracy at the universities. If you are talking to students in front of your graduation today, it may happen that a student tells you that she has to work full-time for three weeks just to do the bureaucratic effort before she can take the final exam. If she's wrong, it can also be that she forgot to give the matura certificate somewhere at some point – as if you were allowed to study without a matura certificate! – and then she can start from the front. Then everything starts again, and that can take twice as long. These are things that have not been addressed at all, and if Mrs Karl is now talking about her continuing this line, I can only say: It's a threat! The other threat voiced by the head of the section was even more acute. He has said that no one has to worry that Mrs. Karl will not continue to pursue what she has been following as a course. – Ladies and gentlemen, last night I had all the OTS messages sent out by Mrs Karl in recent years. Mr Amon mentioned earlier that she was not narrow. – Almost manic one can read two things in virtually all broadcasts, namely: The study fees should be reintroduced and the admission restrictions should be strengthened. – Ladies and gentlemen, that’s what we have to expect, and if the SPÖ says they’ll try to catch it somehow, then I’m already very excited! I am convinced that the tuition fees will not come – that was very clear today; that was clear from the SPÖ, and I think nothing will happen there – but I have not been part of the admission restrictions, and I have been careful. I am sure and would bet with you that in one year we will have tougher and more stringent restrictions on admission than that would somehow eliminate or disintegrate the miserable miscarriages of the unis. I have not heard a word about any democratization efforts, about the participation of SMEs and students in the process of progress. There these university dialogues may now be a very nice gesture, but I already know what is going on – nothing at all! So far, I have not heard anything about the Bologna process from you, Mrs. Minister. You mentioned this for the first time today, but not very clearly. We know that this Bologna process has brought with it extreme disadvantages and wild flowers. He may well be meant, but in the end he has led to an extreme technocratization of the entire test system, and that is urgently changed. Anyone who wants to move his studies from Vienna to Graz today would do better not to try this because it hardly succeeds. One thing I forgot, I have to say, fairly: You have also voted in favour of e-voting, Mrs. Minister, and we know that the Federal Electoral Authority has more or less cancelled it – so not exactly a successful strategy. I believe and hope that it will be necessary to take a completely different course. The continuation of this course is certainly the worst thing that Austrian science policy can expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17635	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17656	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's half the government's assembly here in the plenary also gives us the opportunity to discuss the work of this government in the last 14 months since the Angelobung, as part of today's statements by the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor. It is already obvious how the labour morale, as the policy of this great coalition, is seen in this Federal Government. Today – in January 2010! – we are informed that the budget, i.e. the core work of this administrative body, will be postponed to 2011. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true! Lie!]] We are experiencing the greatest crime in the history of the Second Republic in these months. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Such a fool!]] Intrusion bonds sweep across our country, we have an increase in the crime rate by 70 per cent and a fall in the intelligence rate in house collapses to just over 3 per cent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A disaster!]] We experience through this Federal Government the complete chaos, a temple hop, as has rarely happened in the history of this country: Eberau – no, yes; Vorderenberg – yes, no; Carinthia, Burgenland. This is a chaotic process in asylum policy, which is a real invitation to all international gangs to come to our country as long as asylum policy and security policy are in the hands of such an interior minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What are we talking about?]] We are holding this discussion today at this National Council meeting in view of the fact that we have 400 000 unemployed in our country to complain. In Styria alone, the highest level of unemployment in the history of the Second Republic – 10 percent – has been recorded since unemployment was recorded in Austria. We have been experiencing a blockade in the field of science and research for three months at all. What does this Federal Government do? What do German Chancellor Faymann and his vice chancellor Pröll do? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “sideviews ”!]] You can see them at the “Weißwurstparty” in Kitzbühel, you can see them jumping around in the VIP tent in Schladming, you can see them at the Philharmonicball, they are doing about the buffets of other balls – something of the hunterball – and VIP-tents of this country, while on the other hand the work of this Federal Government comes to a standstill – the work for which you have actually been elected, ladies and gentlemen! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Go, stop!]] [[Abg. Riepl: The Westenthaler is at the football court for this!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have not been elected to make the buffets of this country unsafe with champagne glasses. Think of the anticorruption law, there is even a feeding ban! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] You should take this to heart once on your next trip to these parties. What are we discussing today in view of this state of this Republic in this important science and research area? – We are almost served the last personal offer of the Austrian People's Party! For three months the mountain cried out, and the little mouse was now born – the little mouse that this large building site can get in control of science and research. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karl is already “World Champion” in a chapter: As a 100 per cent member of this House, she managed to collect a 75 per cent Gage at the University of Graz without ever bringing a work permit, and she was still working at a lobbying company here in Vienna. [[Call the BZÖ:Hear, hear!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: scandalous!]] – Three jobs, so there she is already world champion in the science of gage insanity! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Fully disused! Abzockerin!]] There this woman Federal Minister is not far from the Fauls – and as they are still called – of this Republic. [[Abg. May. Stadler: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Karl, who speaks with State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer) She is trying to listen away!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we want from this Federal Government, what we also want from this Federal Minister, is that, in this situation in the field of science and research, they are finally behind the decent and capable students in this country – young people who are the future of our country, young students who have been prevented by the student protest during the last three months from completing their studies in an ordinary time, youthful people who accept the challenge of working for this country, who want to become an intellectual upper class of our country, in order to advance this country in terms of economy and society, in research and in social matters. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on Federal Minister Dr. Karl significant) She doesn't even listen! She's here the first day and she doesn't listen! The first command at the university: listen!]] These students were prevented from studying by the student protests and also punished by the inaction of the Federal Government, for who was in the hearing room? [[Call BZÖ:Sandler!]] In the lecture hall, the Rabauks and Protestants, the German professional demonstrators who ordered the SPÖ and the Greens, were sitting but it was not those who paid the day after day for them to be able to study in this country, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister, we expect you to finally focus the education system in Austria on performance-orientedness, that you support those who do the work that you support those who also accept education. Since we give you a few days or weeks of time and hope that you will finally put accents in this area and not spend the next 14 months as your government syringes, pardon, government peaks Pröll and Faymann, who think they prefer to go somewhere from a sports and VIP festival to the other, than to do work for this country. [[Rejoicing]] [[Call the ÖVP: You need to jump!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17946	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e17967	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Lady Minister Karl! I wish you good luck and good for your job at the beginning! - You'll need it. You know, on our joint trip to Budapest, I've prophesied that you'll be sitting here today. I am very pleased for you, but what I don't understand is that our Vice-Chancellor and ÖVP chief, the “Suprnny” named Josef Pröll, has organized a political show here. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Everyone has to do this! I'm wrong!]] After the “Superintern” was forced by you, you then organized the show “How am I bastling a minister?” I think that's a strong piece that you haven't done anything for three months. You have precisely known that Mr. Hahn is no longer capable of action and has done nothing more. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who says that?]] We have not seen any more successes, and you have totally failed, Minister! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You didn't watch! You've slept everything!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Save about the future!]] As a Vorarlberger and as a West-Austrian, I would also like to say that I am somewhat sad – even though I am pleased for Mrs. Karl – that no West-Austriar has come to the train again. For more than three years, we have not had a single West Austrian in the government from Salzburg to Vorarlberg, which says much about the priorities of this Federal Government. If I then hear Captain Sausgruber from Vorarlberg expressing his enthusiasm for the new order, I don't know: Have you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, given Mr. Sausgruber something to eat, or have you done so much to Vorarlberg in various decisions that Mr. Sausgruber has already resigned? Mrs Minister, I hope you will do your job better than your predecessor – the problems at universities have already been addressed several times today. We know that professionals and sanders were sitting in the audiences, that it was “accessed” at the university, and that those who wanted to study were disabled. In Austria, in contrast to Germany – in Germany, you have come through rigorously! – nothing done, so a clear failure of Minister Hahn. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not even their own!]] As we have seen in the ÖVP with such ministers, who cannot be needed, we have seen: First, Mr Strasser has been moved to Brussels, and now Mr Hahn is being moved to Brussels – I am excited who will be next. [[Call the ÖVP:Stadler! Stadler!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't be happy too early!]] All those who are unable to do any harm or cause the damage will be postponed. – This is the policy of the ÖVP, which is not the policy of the sincere Austrians. Finally, I would like to give you something: If you are doing so well in this deportation policy, you are doing so in security policy too! Push They are immediately punishable foreigners and asylum seekers, They do not admit to the Austrian population that these rulers here are free, free to walk around and continue to do harm. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18086	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President, on the reintroduction of tuition fees. [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the booker?]] If You join him, I'm asking for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. The application is rejected. [[13:00:36]] 2. Text of resolution adopted by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 5, 14 to 18 and 20 to 37 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 5 to 13 and 15 to 17 (589 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18127	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. Mrs Winter has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18152	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say in the first place that the FPÖ will not agree to this collective report, for a single reason. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jury]] The report is called the "Common Report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives". These are particularly important instruments for democracy. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The word “democracy” comes from the Greek and means “volkswille”, which comes from popular sovereignty and means that the will of the people is above all. [[Abg. Grandruck: No, no! Not “volkswille”, but: The people rule!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not at all the case in this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. The report is a convoy of a number of sides. There are 24 petitions in it, all of which have been taken note of up to four. What does attention mean? – A funeral of the first class. These petitions, in which a desire, a desire, desire and the will of the people are expressed, are simply put into the drawer and nothing remains of it. The four petitions allocated to the committees are all from the government groups. It is not much different for the citizens' initiatives: There's the ratio six to six – that's still quite okay. A positive sign, a really active step towards the start-up, were two citizens' initiatives by students from two different schools. The students were invited and there was a direct confrontation with students and with parents. – I think that was a very, very positive thing. I would rather imagine direct democracy. I do not think it is particularly good about democracy in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What about the Freedom Party in Carinthia?]] You just have to look at what comes out of Minister of Justice Bandion-Ortner and her anti-terrorism law. In her wallet at the end of the month, Minister of Education Schmied finds several million euros. What do our unemployed find, what do our minimum pensioners find in their wallets at the end of the month? - Nothing! Democracy must be lived differently, democracy must be handled differently! I could end my speech with a quote from Bertolt Brecht – but I don't. I think the population can do much better: This year it will express its appreciation to our government several times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18228	Mr Grossruck spoke on an actual correction. I recall the relevant provisions of the GOG. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18253	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Mrs Winter has explained earlier that the word democracy comes from the Greek language. - That's right. But “democracy ” does not mean“ people’s will, ” but “the people are ruling. ” “Demos” means “people” and “kratein” means “dominating”. I want that corrected, not that the youth takes something wrong home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18283	I would remind you at this point that this has not been an actual correction within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. That's where we all agree. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18310	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! In fact, I would have liked the discussion of this present collection report to take place today in the television broadcasting time. This hope lives for the next time. As you know, there is a collective report from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives only once, at most twice a year. We are also seeking to increase the Committee's role in the parliamentary process, so I think, unlike my predecessor, that the joint efforts in this area have already developed quite positively: Compared to the July 2009 collective report, as the intervals between the meetings have been shortened, the present collective report contains twice as many petitions and citizens' initiatives, a total of 36. [[Abg. Scheibner: Good Chairman of the Committee!]] At a meeting of the interlocutors, ideas for the Committee's active recovery were gathered and opportunities for a better use of the existing Rules of Procedure were discussed. In concrete terms, contact with the People's Procuratorate on exchange, networking and agreement was supported. Among other things, there is also an excursion to the German Bundestag to collect new ideas that we can then bring into the discussion process in the Austrian Parliament. At that meeting, we also decided unanimously on a request for a hearing in the Committee. This was about the concern of a citizens' initiative by young people from the summer of 2009, whose demand was more student participation and school democracy, so that they can present it to the Committee personally. There is the possibility in the Rules of Procedure to invite information to the committee. A hearing, as happened last week in the committee on such a broad level – with students, numerous experts from the education sector or representatives of the school partners – is really something new. There was a very busy, lively discussion with the students, the contributors of these two citizens' initiatives. There were very important issues, such as that school democracy belonged to life, that the primary and secondary classes should be more involved in the co-determination process and that children and young people should be made understand that their views are important. In addition, there was a demand for more political education, new forms of student representation and for far-reaching school autonomy at individual school locations. These discussions have once again made it clear how important it is to involve all those involved in this school reform process. This is also an example of living democracy: The young people have provided a clear and important impetus to direct participation with their call for preliminary work in Parliament. – The discussion will continue in the Teaching Committee after the two citizens’ initiatives have been allocated to the Technical Committee. There is another petition, which calls for the free professional maturity test as early as 2010. Since the model “Teaching with Matura” for apprentices is highly successful, this petition calls for the possibility of qualifying for all the population groups as soon as possible. Numerous petitions and citizens' initiatives have been dealt with at a total of three committee meetings since the last July 2009 collection report. The concerns concern a wide range of areas; a greater number came from the areas of transport, health, agriculture and social affairs. A consensus is not always reached on how to interpret opinions from the different ministries and whether an assignment to the technical committee is agreed. There is no doubt, however, that citizens' participation is an important issue for people. I am repeatedly receiving requests relating to the submission of petitions. I think we are on the right path with our project to develop petition law even more as an opportunity for greater dialogue between citizens and state. Finally, I also welcome the fact that Parliament's management will improve access to the issue of citizens' participation and its visibility on the Parliament's homepage.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18359	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18380	Mr President. High house! The words of Mr Lohfeyer all sound very good, but I would like to remind her – and I am quite right in my colleague Winter – that “accepting” is nothing but simply shubbling citizens’ concerns. Nobody's interested in it. On the contrary! Most petitions are not even reviewed in detail. Long speech short sense: There's no interest in it. I have to sum up here: The feeling that arises from me – I myself have brought in three petitions, I will come to two more for the district of Mödling – is that, as I said, no one is interested in it and that – you can say this with fug and right – the government is squeezing about what can be done with clever project proposals and petitions. I would like to introduce to you two concrete great projects, which I have put in the form of petitions with Mr Vock, for the district of Mödling. The one is the extension of the U6 over seven herds in Vienna to Wiener Neudorf and Mödling. There are complete concepts for this, but these are in the drawers. I also have to say that this has never really been a topic, you didn't look at it all, you just rubbed it. Finally, we should all consider today that for the transport of commuters to Vienna and Vienna, of course, we are developing concepts and solutions, but everything that comes from the liberals – and these concepts already exist longer – is placed ad acta. A second long-term demand of the FPÖ in the district of Mödling, which we have also made as a petition, is the tunneling of the Wiener Austernring motorway in the area between Brunn am Berge and Sparbach. What is it like at the moment? – It is an old track with 5 to 6 percent ascent, with more than 80,000 cars daily, tendency naturally rising massively – you can imagine – an east-west connection. And here there are many big problems. There is a huge emission burden in this section of the outer ring motorway. There is a strong noise pollution and a permanent traffic shock in the event of a rapid fall. Three municipalities – Brunn am Gebirge, Perchtoldsdorf and Gießhübl – are actually cutting through. And there we proposed a project with an internationally recognized tunnel construction expert, namely Mr. Commercial Councilman Walter Neumüller, who designed a tunnel construction project. He says you can implement this project in three to four years. One could also refinance this project through the land that lies above it. We speak here of 25 to 30 percent of the investment costs that could be refinanced. We could create green lungs about creating parks for families and children, various facilities. We could also expect generous EU funding – I have already mentioned the East-West connection. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: If you have a park...!]] Another point I would like to mention here – because Mr Bartenstein, as a representative of the economy, wants to “correspond” with me – is: This project will also strengthen our economy. You know that very well! We could create jobs, we would have a detour profitability in this area, through the use of the surrounding infrastructure of innhouses, department stores and accommodation. Finally, I would like to say that such a project has already been implemented, almost identical, near Stuttgart: the Engelberg Tunnel in Leonberg. There you put it into practice. And that's what I blame the government: Where a will, there is a way, but where there is no will, where there are no visions, where there are no plans, nothing happens of course! You are already more often certified by experts: You prefer to manage the Republic rather than lead it with visions and with power of action. But this knows the opposition; above all, the Freedom Party knows this quite clearly. That's it! We know – and now I conclude: Right goes from the people. I do not think we should now discuss whether the people should rule or whether the right should go from the people. – Yes, the people must be involved. For a long time, the Austrian population will no longer be allowed to enjoy this premeditation by the government. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18420	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18441	Mr President. High house! Yes, citizens' initiatives and petitions are an important instrument of direct democracy, which makes it possible for citizens' concerns to be brought into Parliament. It is always very regionally specific topics – not always, but also – which are the concerns; not all must also be dealt with by the federal level. Country competences are often also affected. Of course, this is also to be taken into account, but all concerns are handled in such a way that opinions are also requested. The opinions will also continue to be discussed, the further procedure will be measured and directed towards it. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has now received an appreciation. We have succeeded in exploiting or exploiting the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure. The last Committee meeting to hold a hearing on the subject of school partnership and co-determination has also brought a special appreciation to this Committee. Two citizens' initiatives were discussed and dealt with very closely in terms of content. I think that all those involved were very positive about the commitment with which the young people, the students, also demonstrated and represented their political interests. I believe that this will also be very sustainable. I am pleased that these consultations have also been passed on to the Teaching Committee. There will certainly be a corresponding priority for these issues. Some of these citizens' initiatives and petitions, which have been put on a good footing, which are also best presented in terms of content, where the opinions are, of course, available to us, are brought to Parliament by means of this collective report and brought to the attention of the national councils. I would like to refer to one of them today, which is the petition 27 on “Requirements of the European Milkboard (EMB)”. It is also clear from the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture that at the meeting of the Ministers for Agriculture, which will take place in mid-March, this will also be an issue, as already in October, in the Council of Ministers for Agriculture in Brussels, it was discussed that measures should be taken here in the interests of the dairy farmers of Europe. A demand catalogue was discussed at the initiative of Austria, which was supported by a total of 21 Member States. The core requirement was an additional budget from the EU budget. A total of €300 million was added for dairy farmers; the share of Austria is €6.05 million. ==References== The description of this use must also be completed and forwarded on March. That is why the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture will address the matter. There is also an expert working group dealing at EU level with accompanying measures to discharge the European dairy sector. The results will also be available in mid-June. We have also dealt with the improvement of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives within the political groups. Improvements could already be achieved. One of them is that this report is being debated today in a very prominent place on the agenda, thereby also bringing Members to the work of this committee. I am sure that we will continue to work together on improvements – and this will be very successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18481	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18502	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The background of my petition on ‘New Money’ was to allow a complementary currency in Austria as a regional means of payment. As an alternative to the then unstable schilling, work certificates were circulated in Wörgl, my hometown, according to the principle of free money, which lost 1 percent of their nominal value every month. This so-called swund money was spent mostly by the municipality for work on infrastructure improvement. The equivalent was deposited in local banks in Schilling. The wound money was immediately put into circulation by the people in order not to have to lose them. Only because this model was suspended due to a complaint from the Austrian National Bank in 1933 does not mean that it was not successful – on the contrary! In 1933, this project was copied to 22 US municipalities. In 2003, the "Chiemgauer" started as the regional currency of the southern Bavarian region, and today it is one of the most successful regional initiatives in the German-speaking region. There are, for example, 4,000 complementary currencies today, which are based on the example of Wörgl. Ladies and gentlemen! We would have had the opportunity to deal with this petition in real terms with this issue. This would call for both the Minister of Finance and Foreign Affairs and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Commission has been able to take action at European level. In addition, there would have been the possibility of dealing with the crisis and exploitation in one's own country with relatively little effort, and of giving a strong signal with the introduction of regional complementary currencies. But what really bothers me is that this petition has only been taken note of. It seems that the basic idea of this petition was not so bad for the Federal Ministry of Finance, as the final statement states: “The idea mentioned in the petition regarding a wide-ranging discussion with the participation of many different groups on the reorganisation of the international financial system is desirable and democratic systems give sufficient opportunity to do so.” But more than lip recognition is not to be heard from you at the moment! They are not ready to go new, innovative ways. But these would be more than necessary at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18554	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18575	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! It is about the citizens' ability to bring their concerns directly to Parliament. This is the essential possibility, which is actually far too little known. That's what we're at the first manko. There should be an offensive for this possibility! Citizens should be encouraged to participate directly in the political discourse through this instrument. For us Greens, it is therefore very important to reform and improve this Committee. We have already taken some small steps among the political groups to improve the existing Rules of Procedure – ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned this – in particular the instrument of hearing. It was invigorating to hear young people, people who were affected by the current miscarriage of education and were able to express their concerns to us directly, and there was an expert hearing that we held after that. I think that this opportunity and this opportunity must be institutionalized, and we must do so regularly. I'd be very sorry for that. I would also believe that we must work to take people's recommendations very seriously. Here I would like to repeat the failure of my colleague, Mr Winter, to say: I'd rather not quote Brecht. . I understand you, Mrs Winter, because Brecht was a rather bitter dialectist, and if you quote him, you must always be aware that you might meet the words yourself. I would nevertheless like to bring this quote by Bert Brecht: “He who doesn’t know the truth is just a fool. But whoever knows it and calls it a lie, he is a criminal.” [[Call the FPÖ: But she didn't say that!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] She didn't say that, I know! Bert Brecht said it, and Bert Brecht meant that – that's the peak, that's what hits this house very well –: If we are familiar with the idea of taking the concerns of citizens seriously, we must be very careful and seriously careful to ensure that these concerns really land in the relevant specialist bodies and are discussed there. Of course, in one thing, I'm right: It is inappropriate and not really a good sign if we take note of so many petitions most of them only. We shall discuss this, here in plenary, and we shall do so, but at the same time we should forward these petitions to the relevant committees for processing. That should be our main concern, Mrs Hellerer, and also the other colleagues from the government side. This is actually our chance to finally lead it in the way and to further develop it in this direction. I'll make a petition. After all, you have addressed the milk petition: There were three opinions from the Minister for Agriculture, and there are four parliamentary parties here who supported this petition. Nevertheless, we are not going to continue this very important petition to the Committee on Agriculture, and this is now, Mrs Höllerer, where the debate will be held at European level over the next few months. I would have found that, as an appreciation for farmers, for the affected petitioners, we should have passed them on to the Committee without loss of face for whoever. It is my plea to you to continue working together to ensure that it goes in this direction. I am also convinced that in the joint excursion to the German Bundestag, which is planned, we will also take along good ideas from there to come here for an upgrade and an improvement. I would also like to address some very specific concerns, which are now only taken into account and not dealt with in the committees. If you look at the palette, you can say that there are some priorities, and it is interesting what problems people focus on. These are things that move us otherwise, namely public transport, the Austrian federal railways, all the possibilities of the transport system to road construction; these are things that move people very cause, concern them and also put them in concern. Another important area concerns health, food, genetic engineering and also new technologies; I am thinking, for example, of the still untreated problem of mobile phone masts. A beehouse on a green meadow needs a permit, a cell phone mast needs no permission! [[Abg. New builder: A bee hut neither!]] Of course, in Upper Austria! I can give you examples. [[Abg. Grill: Thank you, Anschober!]] [[Further calls.]] The establishment in the Greenland is subject to authorisation. That's exactly what things are: There is, as it were, a bureaucratic process in small projects. In the case of technologies that can clearly cause burdens – I do not want to say from the outset that there is evidence that there is health damage, but there are burdens – citizens should be able to share it. A right of participation should be introduced here. Or if I am now thinking of the AGROSPRIT petition “Bread on the plates and not into the tanks!”: If we look at the situation in developing countries, this is a huge issue, even in the face of the disaster in Haiti. We see how food supply is a global issue in the face of crises. Here, citizens are to be taken seriously, or even in their citizens' initiative on “Rail Tax Now!” – a good proposal to tax assets of more than € 1 million with 5 percent. [[Abg. Grillitsch: You mean the increase in the basic tax!]] These are good proposals; we should take them seriously and implement them. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Of course, we will necessarily have to finance the state budget, Mr Grillitsch, which is not a way forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18685	The next speaker was Mr Jannach. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18706	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Wolfgang Pirklhuber! One only needs to look at the government bank, then one also sees the appreciation of the Federal Government towards the citizens' initiatives and the citizens. It's a real shame! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are people in the audience who are looking at the good initiatives that are being taken. It is a complete disregard for the interests of citizens who have genuinely legitimate concerns – and I also come to speak of individual concerns and citizens’ initiatives – that none of the 20 members of the government are sitting outside, not even listening. They no longer take note of this, nothing at all, that is simply ignored. That's really a shame! This is frustrating for the people who are engaged as citizens in certain projects in their area, then perhaps come here or watch it on television, and then there is no single member of the government. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: This is what you have in the text, Mr. Colleague!]] This is really a very, very great shame and a real disregard for the interests of the citizens! [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] As has been said, many of these initiatives and petitions that have been brought in are local. I am an agricultural speaker of the FPÖ for an initiative, which concerns a whole professional group, and that is the farmers. There has been the demands of the IG-Milk and the European Milk Board to do something for farmers in the milk sector because they have suffered a 50 % loss of income in the last year alone due to the decline of the milk price. We asked – together with the SPÖ, together with the Greens and together with the BZÖ – for the representatives of the IG-Milch to be added, who are not a small group and not a sect, dear Member Grillitsch, but who wanted to speak with those who volunteered their interests – please, volunteer! - wanted to bring in. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Talk to the ÖVP farmers!]] But they haven't even been invited to the committee! I can only say from our side that we of course support the demands of the IG-Milk, because they volunteer there, fight on almost lost posts, but do everything to achieve better income for farmers. At this point a warm thanks to the farmers of the IG-Milch! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is already quite frustrating – Mr Pirklhuber has also said it – what happens to this whole initiative. Not only that people are not allowed to come to the committee, these farmers who are affected by it and are fighting here for the interests of all dairy farmers have had to take an income reduction of more than 20 percent last year! It is not possible that they will not be invited into the committee. It's not talking about it. If you listen to the Minister, you only know: Everything controls the EU, we can't do anything about it. The answers to the demands of the IG-Milch and the concerned farmers who suffer from such loss of income are more than muddy: We can't do anything here, the EU has to deal with this first, here we can't do anything nationally at all. We demand that a Minister of Agriculture present himself to the farmers in such a dramatic situation and defend the peasants not only – this is badly formulated formulated – in California or Moscow, but also in front of the farmers! There is no professional group that has a 20 percent income-minus – and the minister is not even there and doesn't listen to the concerns of the farmers. We demand that the Minister of Agriculture present himself to the farmers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same thing – and here I would like to address one point that does not concern petitions, but which also concerns farmers massively – applies to the whole debate on values. I would also like to put this into place here to discuss it again in plenary. This is an essential policy for farmers. This has nothing to do with income losses, which is the main debate that we will have in the coming year. Here too, we ask the FPÖ to discuss the values of unity at last in a committee. As far as the Financial Committee is concerned, it also applies to agriculture: On the one hand, all farmers' contributions are on the verge of unity! This is being negotiated in the silent chamber, and we have massively criticised the fact that agricultural chambers are producing calculations which provide for an 80 percent increase in unit values for green farmers! Please, this is not an initiative from us, that comes from the ÖVP Farmers' Association, the calculations come from the Chamber of Agriculture – and with the farmers, the affected, is not spoken! It's going to run mystery here. We are already happy when the answer to the question comes; then we will demand that in this area there be an open and honest discussion with the farmers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has been said, it is our demand not only to give more attention to the citizens' initiatives, but also to us farmers, the farmers, to listen once. It would be very interesting to know whether last year the Minister of Agriculture has also given up 20 per cent of his income, as the farmers had to do. We demand that the citizens' initiatives be more taken into account, that the professional groups – as in this area the European Milk Board, the IG-Milch – be heard by the Federal Government and that they be actively employed for farmers and farmers so that income increases again and that farmers have an income with their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18787	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18810	Mr President. High house! Dear listeners at the gallery! Yes, Mrs Lohfeyer, I would also have liked to see the discussion, the debate on the petitions taking place during the television era. Only when I think about it: What would be useful if no one member of the government was here, what would it be useful if the ranks in plenary were relatively light?- Oh, my God! I'll call all the parties, I won't take anyone out. That is why I think we all have to be with ourselves... – We are, if we calculate this, most percent; thank you, Mr Stadler! [[Abg. May. Stadler: There we are still relatively strongest here!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I do not think we can say any more that we take direct democracy seriously if this is dealt with here in the House under “a distance”. We have dealt with 42 petitions and 18 citizens' initiatives in the last six committee meetings, and unfortunately we have only eight petitions and seven citizens' initiatives allocated to the necessary committees. I agree with my previous speakers: That's too little! This is just ridiculous, I would like to say, because there are so important issues, starting from infrastructure problems and traffic problems, about safety issues to topics of school, school democracy, school autonomy, free maturing. So it is a wide range of issues that concern citizens, and we have the damn duty to see the whole thing seriously here and not only to discuss it with seriousness, but also to admit where decisions can be made. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I therefore agree, as has been said, that in future we will have to allocate much more to the committees. I hope that there will also be a rethinking here among the government parties, because most of the time, the majority of ÖVP and SPÖ are preventing this allocation to the committees. What I can't accept is that some of the opinions requested by the Ministries last so long. One example is the citizens’ initiative regarding “Contrary to the Modern Crusade”, which we discussed on 14 April. ==References====External links==* Official website This opinion was received on 27 March. January 2010! Ladies and gentlemen, this is incomprehensible to me, which is clearly too long. I have just talked to the President of the National Council about the fact that, on the part of the Bureau of the National Council, she is also providing a faster and better solution for us and for the citizens. In principle, we are in the Committee on Petitions – and I would like to say that at this point too – very much in agreement in many things. We want to reach one another that this committee, which is now a purely administrative committee, is being upgraded, but not to present ourselves, but in the sense of citizens, that they also feel that their views, concerns and problems are being taken seriously. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My previous speakers have already pointed out that we had a hearing at the last committee meeting. I think we have been very positive about this across all parties. We have seen young people deal with new, very challenging ideas, especially in the field of school, school autonomy, student democracy and student democracy. It was really exciting to listen here, and, of course, it was necessary to pass the subject on to the teaching committee. As committee chairman, I also wish that this was not a unique experience for all of us or all of us, but that we should make the best possible use of the framework of the current Rules of Procedure. The common ideas for making amendments to the Rules of Procedure are already in place. It will probably take some time, but in a first step it is about us having this type of co-determination, of committing ourselves, of representing ourselves, of what we are talking about, of what we are fighting for, of having this presentation more often in the Committee on Petitions, and also determining it as unanimously as in the last committee. I would also like to say in this context that we have entered a kind of new country of democracy with which we have all agreed to this hearing. I asked myself: There has never been anything like this in the Committee on Petitions in the last few decades. We see that it can be successful, or we can also give the citizens credibility: We take your concerns seriously! I would like to take a brief look at a petition to which I will also make a request, namely the petition No. 30 on financial security of ‘147 – Council on Wire’. This is a hotline, an online guidance facility for children and young people, which has been available since 1987. A petition from the network Children's Rights Austria has been filed because it is concerned that the funding of this facility will no longer be guaranteed in the future. It is an institution as it exists in all EU Member States. They are legally and financially well secured. When we received comments, we had to experience the following: We asked every ministry. Some ministries have slowed down their comments and we had to postpone this point again. There you get the feeling that there are alms that are given. Just what we do for our children, money that we invest in our children, in consulting, in prevention, wherever they can speak and share, all these investments are excellent. It is investment in the future. If we forget about it and there is an obstacle running through all the ministries, then we are also wasting the future of our children. I therefore tabled a motion for a resolution by Mr Haubner, Mr Spadiut and Mr Markowitz, which reads as follows: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Education, Art and Culture are invited to increase their co-financing for the operation of the emergency call “147 – Council on Wire” for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 by 50 percent. In addition, the legal requirements should be created to ensure that ‘147 – Council on Wire’ remains with the ORF within the framework of the public service contract.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Petitions very much for the Parliament's management of the good monitoring, support and consultation, as well as for the tricky issues. I would like to thank all the colleagues of the other groups for their constructive cooperation, for their ideas of further development as regards petition law. And I think we are taking small steps, but we are taking constant steps towards a modern, open Parliament, and we can definitely start with the Committee on Petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18879	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is related to matter and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18928	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! For years, it has been discussed that there is a need for reform in the area of the Committee on Petitions. This will also be evident from the fact that in recent years there has been such a strong human fluctuations as in no other committee. The need for reform relates in particular to the form of the proceedings, i.e. the way in which the Committee on Petitions has to deal with certain petitions and citizens' initiatives. And yet there has been little progress, because when we remember, subjects of the Committee on Petitions have usually been dealt with as agenda items just before midnight. The fact that we have been able to make progress in the midday is already a step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus briefly on the petition No. 31 on “Keeping the roadway” because this issue also shows how carelessly one sometimes deals with the interests of citizens. The Gesäusebahn is the railway line between Kleinreifling and Selzthal in Styria. This is a very important transport hub, and it threatens to stop passenger traffic in this area, namely its shift away from the rail to buses. A brief look at the following: In March last year, the ÖBB still rejected rumors about the cessation of passenger traffic. They said: That's not for discussion. In June, it was then announced that passenger traffic on the rails is very well stopped and only buses are still being carried. And suddenly, in September, the attitude came; on 5 September, the attitude came. September was the last day of regular operation. Since then, only more freight transport and some excursions on the weekends have been carried on rail. It has remained ineffective, for example, that the entire Steiermärk Landtag has been used to preserve the Gesäusebahn. The freedom of petition has also remained without results, which we have tabled in accordance with the Landtag proposal that all parties have contributed in the Styrian Landtag. The result is that public transport between Selzthal and Weißenbach and St. Gallen has been reduced to the bus, so to speak. There are now 20 percent fewer trips. Passengers are often forced to change. Admont is, as it were, no longer covered by the railway network, which will have a very negative impact on tourism. And iron ore in its extremity now goes further off. What irritates and disturbs us, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, is the way in which the government deals with legitimate citizens. ==References== You made it very easy last December: You just decided to take note of this petition number 31. This means that, as in many other cases, you simply notice a deterioration in public transport in the Upper Styria. This is what the citizens also accuse you of: You are less and less listening to those of which you want the vote in the elections. I am convinced that this will be true for you at the Styrian municipal council elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e18992	The next speaker is Mr Wenninger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19015	Mr President. High house! Before commenting on a number of petitions from the Lower Austrian industrial district as a new member of the Committee on Petitions, I can only support the wishes of the Committee chairman, Mr Haubner. If it wants to increase the number of clocks, it will at least find support in social democracy. On the actions brought by the opposition: I do not understand my role as a member of the Committee on Petitions in such a way that opinions that are taken note of would be like to see the petition thrown out. On the contrary, I see it as a personal task to include the initiatives, the concerns of the people who come to the Committee as Members of Parliament and personally to involve them in parliamentary work. Nothing stands in the way of the creative political potential of each Member. On the actions of Mr Höbart: With regard to the extension of the U6 from Vienna to the Mödling area, this is already a decade old demand, which unfortunately was never taken into account in Lower Austrian national transport policy. For this, too, Mr Höbart has a support in me as one who first developed this project with transport experts and the city of Vienna about 20 years ago. The second point: To write down one's own party paper and then to address the content as a petition, as a citizens' initiative to itself and to Parliament, is not covered by my views on the task of the Committee on Petitions, but perhaps this is the workings of Mr Höbart. Now to two very concrete petitions. One concerns the city of Schwechat. There is an environmental noise protection regulation with an associated action plan. Unfortunately, the city of Schwechat is not taken into account, although the city of Vienna and many municipalities in the surrounding area are inside. Parliament supports Mr Fazekas in his efforts to reduce environmental noise in his city. We will try to motivate the head of state Pröll and Minister of State, Berlakovich, to include the city of Schwechat in the Action Plan. The second resolution from the area of the Lower Austrian South deals with the desire from the region to create other such places in addition to the first reception centre of Traiskirchen. We will discuss this intensively during the day. However, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Mayor Fritz Knotzer, the population of the city of Traiskirchen and the region for having taken up thousands of thousands of asylum seekers from all over the world for many decades with all the opportunities available to the community, but of course also with all the problems associated with it. Just as the city of Traiskirchen and the region behave on this subject – with a great sense of responsibility, with great human warmth, but also in the consciousness of carrying a great overall responsibility for the Republic – I would like this to be done by other regions and political representatives in the current discussion on the handling of asylum issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19062	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Haubner, you thanked yourself for the constructive cooperation. This may well be justified from your point of view as a chairman – if more than 90 percent of the petitions submitted cannot be done within the meaning of the applicants, it is already very brave to say that the talks were constructive. I have to say that. If Mr Weninger believes that he sees his task in dealing with the petitions when they arrive at the committee, that is justified. The problem, however, is that over 90 percent do not find this way at all. Mr President, I should like to thank That's the problem! Of 60 petitions made, four come to committee, ladies and gentlemen. That's a citizen's insult! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Don't be sorry, but work!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A citizens' initiative that has the right to bring in such a petition is people who join forces because they recognise the problems on the ground better than the politicians in Vienna. Then they will be shot down as if there had never been anything that would have led them to write such a petition at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I brought a petition on behalf of 800 people in Linz. 800 people who are party-politically no matter where, in an extra-participal sense, had a problem on the ground. The security debate in Linz continues to this day, and the SPÖ in Linz once again called for an increase in the executive staff stand by 100 officials in the last municipal council meeting. In Vienna, however, she has deaf ears and does not want any other officials. There are 800 people who are being pushed into the head with this! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this may also be related to the fact that high-ranking politicians in this country have a problem with self-determination, people polling, democratic involvement of people in the various areas at all. For example, former President of the National Council, Dr. Khol, says about Mr. Niessl's benevolent attitude in the Burgenland, who asked how a country captain can do something that the people do not want him to do – and you listen well now! – remember the question of Goebbels: “Do you want the total war?” said in Berlin’s sports palace in 1943. If this is the access of the ÖVP – I hope it is not and hope that it was only the individual opinion of Dr. Khol – to questions of democracy in Austria, then it is on the brink of the Constitutional Arch. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard any comments from SPÖ that would have condemned this. For one thing cannot be that someone who is an opponent of a people's participation in democracy encounters these issues with totalitarian allure. I expect clear statements from the Federal Government on this unheard-of disfellowshipping Dr. Khols and hope in the future that the Committee on Petitions will really do more than before, so that more than 10 percent of petitions in the committees will actually come into real operation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19132	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19155	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! I would like to comment on my petition: “A disabled child – a injury case?” This petition was essentially the occasion for two judgments of the Supreme Court. You probably know this one. It was because parents were granted maintenance payments for the added burden of a child with disabilities. In the other case, the entire maintenance was granted to the disabled child. Of course, this was not without consequences for prenatal diagnostics. It is true that many doctors are already guessing, at the least, that there is a possible disability to abortion. Doctors are insecure, parents are under increasing pressure. Parents who do not see the birth of their disabled child as a damage are disadvantaged. Nor do such parents, whose child suffers the disability only at birth or just after birth due to an accident, receive no compensation. So this results in a sharp injustice. There is one that can get high amounts of damage, and there are the others who don't get anything. There was an expert dialogue before Christmas on the initiative of our ÖVP disabled speaker Franz-Joseph Huainigg. The aim of this dialogue was to explain the currently unsatisfactory situation, to consider whether a legislative change is needed and also to outline solutions. This expert round was very high-ranking. The President of the Supreme Court was involved, various doctors, politicians, lawyers and representatives of disability organisations, including the “Action Life”. It has been found there that there is a need for a change, namely in damages law. It is a pity that this petition only occurred. However, the discussion continues. The Ministry of Justice has already fixed an appointment and invited it to an interdisciplinary discussion on “Wrongful Birth” in March. In turn, experts from science, practice and justice as well as representatives of stakeholders should participate. I am glad that the Ministry of Justice has accepted this question, because the message must say: Disabled children are also most welcome in our society. This requires changes in three important areas: First of all, in damages law, we also need appropriate advisory standards for doctors – they have already been prepared by a Vorarlberg medical team but still need to be implemented throughout Austria – and it is also necessary that federal, country and local authorities, in addition to the already existing fundings, further expand support for parents with disabled children.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19192	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19214	Mr President. High house! First of all, I am glad that we all succeeded in upgrading the work of this Committee on Petitions. The presentation of the collection report on Top 2 is, however, located outside the television broadcast, but important. Unfortunately, it has also slipped into the lunch break, so many Members are not there to listen to the concerns of the citizens. I am also pleased that we have organised a common hearing to listen to the interests of citizens on the ground and here in Parliament. Hopefully this will not remain an individual case. However, it is dissatisfying that today's notice, which at the end of the day is an end to these petitions. Mr Weninger, the end is nothing but a pile in the round-leaf, because all these good ideas are shubbled. And if they do not pull out a member of the opposition there, they will probably never again be touched by the government. Let me also say something here on individual initiatives. There are always numerous petitions for public transport, because citizens either have a bit of annoyance or suggestions. There is the petition number 17 concerning the extension of the U6, the number 23 to the Ybbstalbahn, the number 26 to the Salzkammergut-Lokalbahn, the number 31 to the Gesäusebahn. What do all these initiatives have in common? – The BMVIT – you listen and marvel – does not feel responsible, delegate the funding to the countries and does not feel responsible for the expansion or maintenance of the infrastructure. Those who now think that BMVIT is focusing on the roads and not on the rails, I must let them down, because the initiative for subtunneling the Allander bypass that we have brought in together has been treated negatively. Imagine one thing – and that happened in November 2007 –: It snows, trucks cause a traffic jam, and in the middle of the cold winter the citizens sit at minus degrees outside temperature up to seven hours in their vehicles! This did not happen somewhere in a developing country, which happened here in front of the gates of Vienna. Seven hours! The Red Cross had to care for people urgently. Happy were those who had freshly coated, because they could run the engine longer. Those who had little petrol had to shut down the engine and sit in the car for seven hours. It can't be! I'm an apex of Schillerstraße and I notice how traffic travels through Killling every day. It is much more important for truck drivers to drive across the city, to buy traffic lights, to buy speed limits than to buy the Gießhübler mountain, which is an obstacle to the trucks, because there is a slope that is never daily. When experts work out a project, I think it's important that you also discuss it in the ministry and don't just do it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I also find it interesting that the housing, which is presented as an alternative project by the mayors as the solution in our communities, is not a topic of BMVIT. The mayors have said this is already decided, it will soon be housed. But this is just an election promise for the municipal council election, but nothing actually happens, because for BMVIT all this is not a topic. In view of the inaction of the ministry, I ask: What are the tasks of an infrastructure ministry if it is not responsible for the expansion of the infrastructure?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19281	The next speaker is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19304	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant that the speakers of the opposition are here and are criticising government parties for citizens' initiatives and petitions, because it is de facto so that they are shaken and the majority are not taken seriously and not allocated to the relevant committees. I constantly wonder – including during the last committee meetings on citizens' initiatives and petitions: Why are the EIAs and SPÖs so afraid to discuss this in the committees? What is it about which they may find it difficult to talk? – In my opinion, it is neither a loss of face nor a shame to make assignments come about. I assume that the appeal by the opposition parties is not sunk in the Nirwana, but is also heard because otherwise we will soon be in the film “And daily greetings the Murmeltier”. The involvement of citizens, associations, associations, initiatives and young people since the election age reduction has been trying to bring their concerns to the policy, to listen and to be able to express their concerns. It is simply Parliament's duty to take the concerns of every individual Member and every Member of Parliament seriously. Citizens' participation in Austria is actually something quite difficult. In fact, there is no tradition of shaping citizens' participation. In particular, traditional ways will be followed, and above all, you all know that very well and exactly, of which I am sure – in the municipal offices. It is still common that concerns are exchanged in conversation in mayors, mayors' talks. This is not an active form of civil participation, it is an shoulder knock. [[Abg. Hoefinger: There you have no experience!]] The mayor or mayor then says: That's what we're doing, that's not a problem at all – no matter what the subject matter is. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Are you mayor?]] This is not a form of active civil participation, these are the traditional ways that the mayors of the ÖVP take, and we all know that very well. [[Abg. Höfinger: This is theoretical politics!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Unrealistic!]] Especially in municipal offices this happens, and the patting of the shoulder is not a form of civil participation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If citizens turn to the Committee on Petitions with the citizens' initiatives and petitions, of course the Committee on Petitions plays a very special role. The practice that most petitions and citizens' initiatives are not taken into account must be changed quite clearly, as important social policy issues are no longer negotiated in the relevant committees. I take one issue out, that is the discussion on the amendment of § 278. § 278 is the heritage of the era Bush, it is about the anti-Mafia paragraph; it belongs to – regardless of whether procedures are open or not. The Committee has the opportunity to discuss these paragraphs and to make them NGOs-friendly so that animal protectionists are not arrested, imprisoned and put into detention. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The second concerns ‘Council on Wire’. Mr Haubner has tabled a motion for a resolution which I can support as a youth speaker, because it concerns the long-term security of all children and young people in Austria. But, of course, it has to be checked whether it is legally possible whether or not it should remain a public-law order of the ORF. Still, let's go. Finally, I come to the Committee on Petitions: Hearings, yeah, great. That was a very good instrument, it belongs further developed. Publicly, definitely. It must also be publicly designed. Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19393	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19414	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the course of this agenda, we will also discuss the petition of the Citizens' Initiative “Solidarity with the Lower Austria South region – For another first-time reception centre in the south of Austria for the discharge of Traiskirchen”; They are signed by Mr Pendl, Mr Weninger, Mr Wittmann and others. Ladies and gentlemen, this gives me quite the opportunity to have this sad discussion about the asylum centre in Austria before 3 p.m. today, also to discuss the asylum chaos in Austria, in which an interior minister walks through the country almost like the Ahnfrau and has Eberau at the heart of her interests or other places across the south of Austria – Burgenland, Styria and Carinthia – for an asylum reception centre. Ladies and gentlemen! We would spare ourselves these petitions, and we would also spare ourselves all the discussions in this House and in the political arena on these additional centres of reception if we had an interior minister who finally adhered to the current legislation in Austria, namely the implementation of the Dublin II Regulation and the implementation of the Dublin II Regulation, those regulations and that applicable European law, who said that Austria as a state in the heart of Europe, surrounded by safe third countries of the European Union, is responsible for this asylum reception, but that, with our accession in 1994, or with the accession of the enlargement countries, which we had in the course of the crisis in Austria in the 1990s, this commitment has been transferred to Slovenia, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland. If we were to implement the Dublin Agreement and the Dublin Regulation on the spot, we would not have 25 000 asylum seekers in the basic supply every year in Austria, but a few hundred. Then there is no need to discuss whether to relieve or burden Traiskirchen, or whether to put something in Eberau, in Vorderenberg, in Leoben or Tripstrü, but we could finally use these budget resources to improve the security equipment of the Republic of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of this debate today, we are making two requests to show that concrete decisions are also possible on the basis of this Committee on Petitions and that this will not be postponed to the Committee on the Interior on the Sankt-Nimmerlein Day. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request: Resolution Mr Grosz, Mr Mag. Stadler, Ing. Westenthaler, Petzner, Colleagues concerning: no additional asylum reception site The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to distance itself from the creation of an additional first place for asylum seekers and, instead, to significantly speed up asylum procedures in the interest of the population. With these two requests, Mrs Fekter, you could meet your promise to the head of state in Lower Austrian Pröll, with regard to the agreement that was reached yesterday between you and the media. This could finally end the uncertainty in this sad discussion, which will accompany us once again here today, at 3 p.m. with the call for the urgent request, once and for all. Show me a little backbone, show me a little bit of grace! These are the basic virtues that one needs in politics as well. It would be good for you to take this to heart when it comes to taking decisions in the interest of the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19496	The two motions for resolutions tabled are sufficiently supported, are in a material context and therefore in negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19626	Next speaker: Mr Steier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19647	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Committee's collection report is a good opportunity to comment on the current discussion item No. 1 in Austria, the planned first recording centre Eberau. I should like to say the following: People, refugees have a right to get help. For this we are not only a social democrat, but also, in particular, as citizens of the castle. We Burgenländeren have proved this impressive over the past decades. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is well known. Another asylum centre will be added to the three existing ones for capacity reasons. The location search was, is and will be difficult, although I myself and everyone in the SPÖ are convinced that no other reception site is necessary if all the federal states fulfil the respective fixed recording rates. [[Abg. Wheelers: everybody!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have so far felt that no mayor could easily make such a far-reaching decision to build an asylum centre – without any delay for the local population, the region and the country policy, as the Federal Minister Fekter has done with the mayor in Eberau. Indeed, existing fears and resentments are great – no wonder in view of the continuing criminalisation of asylum seekers. Like a Polit-Rambo, Minister of the Interior Fekter, together with her helpers and minions, has tried in a night and fog action to whip through all democratic rules and bar of every communication, a first recording center in the Eberau in Burgenland. The “ingredients” for this – hidden contact, strawmen, secret agreements – could come directly from a bad novel. The sentence “We were faster than the preventers!” testifies to the thinking of the VP minister. However, it is also bad that those who have been on the verge so far – the Hofers, Tschrashens and Molnars; Mr. Oberlehrer and his satirists, Filopat and Patafil – are trying to beat political little money out of this case to win votes. They thus show once again their true face, namely to pursue and to evade. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has required massive efforts by the head of state of the Burgenland as well as the SPÖ Burgenland to stop this insanity project. We strongly reject the first reception centre of Eberau and the undemocratic, politically motivated procedure of the Minister of the Interior! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A People's Survey will help to show the political responsible that a first-rate recording centre does not correspond to the wishes of the population – and therefore this survey should also be a binding result for all those responsible. Federal Minister Fekter has played my personal trust, but also the trust of the Burgenland, for she has not acted against Burgenland for the first time: In addition to Eberau, she also represented the withdrawal of police officers and this lavier in relation to the assistance. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Then vote for the motion for a reluctance!]] The ÖVP would be well advised to take the reins, to end Mrs. Fekters' crash course and to impose a process of self-cleaning. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, there will be several mistrusts in Bälde. I personally will not agree to this only because we citizens are people with handshake, who comply with the agreements – and this also applies to the Coalition Agreement. I am in favour of the 108 SPÖ and ÖVP delegates agreement and I do not torpedo it. That's why – and that's why! – I will not vote in favour of this motion for a distrust, but rather put a symbolic gesture, which leaves the Chamber here in the vote, and we will observe very closely how other Burgundy Members will act in this vote. [[Calls:To wimm! A “Scharfer” Protest]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19761	Mr Steier, for the accusation of advocacy towards Members of this House, I give a call for an order. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19792	Mr President. High house! Dear colleagues! I would like to return to Mr Neubauer's speech and tell you: The chairman of the Senior Federation Dr. Andreas Khol stands firmly on the ground of the Constitution, standing firmly on the ground of our democracy. Dr. Khol is an exemplary Austrian – and I therefore reject all your criticism of Dr. Khol! Now I would like to return to the core of this discussion, namely the key question, guests at the gallery: Does it make sense to engage in a citizens' initiative or petition? - I mean yes. Current example: the citizens' initiative on pension funds. It's true, Mrs Winter, she was done, she was taken note of, but why? - Because she's reached her goal. The aim is achieved; all of this is already at the Constitutional Court. And a very up-to-date example, a new petition that will soon be brought in to Madam President Prammer: This is also a reform of pension funds. This reform is urgently necessary, because fact is, 770 000 people are insured in pension funds, and they are concerned about their pensions. That's why it takes a quick solution, a solution still in 2010. That is to say, we are in charge of the petition committee with the wishes and suggestions of the Signatories. Therefore: Engage, we like to go a bit of Let's go with you! I would like to invite you very cordially. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19834	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19855	Mr President. High house! We will not give this collective report the consent because we believe the way... – We, these are the liberties in Carinthia, and we will not give this collective report approval because we believe... – It is already significant that some of the ÖVP at a agenda point where we talk about citizens' initiatives are simply making fun of it and enjoying themselves here! [[Call to the ÖVP: Who are “we”?]] [[Abg. Riepl: You don't know each other at all!]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] In reality, what is happening here is very sad, because this is a first-class funeral for committed citizens, for initiatives that are undoubtedly entitled to be dealt with here in the House. And you're enjoying the ÖVP, grinning and making fun of it?- Oh, my God! [[I should like to congratulate Members who are not members of the European Parliament, and those who are not members of the FPÖ.]] What is behind this report, which you only take note of here? – There are thousands of citizens behind them, thousands of dedicated Austrians who have legitimate concerns about the House – in the hope that the parliamentarians will deal with it, but you will be arroganced by the coalition parties over these Austrians. You ignore the work, you ignore the collection of signatures, you ignore the effort that has been made, and often also political repression – you have to say that too! In particular, the ÖVP is the party that looks closely at these citizens' initiatives and these names. Then those citizens who work for the interests of their fellow human beings and for important projects have not only disadvantages in their workplaces, but also in terms of promotions and other things. That is why we believe that work in the Committee must be reformed. We must also bring the initiatives into line with treatment. In other words, these should not only be taken into account, but the competent ministries, the relevant committees in the House, should, in our opinion, be forced to deal with this. That is to say, a reform of the Rules of Procedure is urgently needed in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19918	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler to speak. [[Call: I'm not there! In Brussels]] The word message has been withdrawn. Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e19947	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have subsequently spoken and I would like to explain in a very short time, in a minute why we do not agree with the two BZÖ proposals presented by Mr Grosz. Among other things, we find their reasoning scandalous and also blatant from a human point of view. There is also the demand: The Federal Government’s goal must be to “shatter the flow of new asylum seekers”. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: What's bad?]] We find: If every country does, that is to say, completely independent of whether anywhere in the world is civil wars, armed conflicts, deportations or not, it is primarily simply the number of asylum seekers who want it to be – it costs what it wants! – we could, as it were, throw the human rights convention and the refugee convention on the garbage dumps. This cannot be the goal of a democratic republic. That is why we will not agree to these two requests, although we find the approach of Minister of the Interior Fekter in the case of Eberau and even in the entire asylum debate terrible, objectionable and condemnable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20000	For the sake of order, I would like to point out that, if one speaks of counter-proposals for resolutions, it is not possible to report as a contra-redner due to the use in Parliament, because the basic matter is basically pro-redner. That may be observed in the future. The next speaker was Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20024	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, it is true that a number of petitions are simply taken note of with this collection report. However, there have also been good reasons for many of these findings. I have already said in committee that, for example, in the petition of IG-Milch farmers, we will be dealing with the market regulation law again only in the next few days, more precisely in March. We will have a detailed opportunity to discuss this initiative again. I hope that, together with the colleagues of the ÖVP, we will be able to bring about improvements in the market regulation law for dairy farmers. I wish, together with all the Members of the House, that we should actually improve the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, because I think people deserve it. Many committed people bring petitions, citizens' initiatives. We should not suggest from this House that it is pointless to make petitions! I would also appeal to all Members not to act as if it makes no sense to engage in matters of concern. People should continue to be involved. I would just like to say a few words to petition number 20. This is the very sensitive petition “Handed Child – A Harmful Case? ” Mr Franz has already discussed this in detail today. I am very glad that there will be an expert round in the Ministry of Justice in March of this year, where this sensitive issue will be discussed again. I think it just has to be left that the child should never be seen as a injury. It is our task to counteract this division with all the means available to us. It's in the government, too. programme established that the child should never be seen as a damage. We need to work in the direction of getting parents to get good advice. We also need to work towards ensuring that children with disabilities receive the greatest possible funding and promotion and that they are also valuable members of our society and that they are treated as such. I think that we are all called upon to work in this direction as well. Perhaps we should also take the opinion of the Ministry of Justice seriously and consider better social rights of parents and children in addition to civil law law and perhaps adopt better promotions for parents with disabled children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20076	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20097	Mr President! High house! School democracy and democratic education are closely linked. Today, the previous speakers have already meant and worked out several times how important the hearing was and how much we have learned from it. Congratulations to the committee presidents who started this innovation in a very sovereign way, as I believe. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My personal congratulations, however, is particularly true of the student union for its great participation. This is also particularly important at this point, because the Citizens’ Initiative “Democracy Makes School” has shown with over 6,500 signatures how important it is that we take seriously and treat the concerns of the pupils and the student representation seriously here in the House. What are the concerns? – I would like to support these very strongly at this point: the topic of the choice of letters. The topic of the selection of letters has already been proven in the National Council, in the municipal council. I believe that we should therefore take this initiative seriously and take appropriate steps to ensure that we also allow the choice of letters in the student and student representation. The second issue that I would like to take out is an increased anchorage of the student representation in the curriculum, namely age-adequate. The political education curriculum is currently being reformed. We all know that it is important to have students tested in an adequate way to let democracy develop. The anchorage in the context of political education could be that the rights and possibilities of the student representation also become part of the curriculum in political education. I would also like to support the initiative of the association Coole Schule in the direction that we strengthen cooperation, co-responsibilities of age, as a teaching principle from the primary school. This is a trace less than the initiative wanted, but it is important – I think – not so much the institutional anchorage, but the principle of teaching and enabling for the initiative. Thanks to this motivating hearing. We will discuss this even more closely in the Committee on Education.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20143	The next speaker was Mr Lipitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should agree that this democratic policy instrument for the introduction of citizens' initiatives and petitions is a very, very important one, and always can and should be used. I would like to point out that the first step was to open this committee at the last hearing. I mean, that's the right step. However, I would like to point out that there are figures here, which citizen initiatives are taken note of and which are further referred to, that there are citizens' initiatives or petitions that are taking place at this time. I would like to quote one: The petition “All the Raillet must be held in Wörgl” has already done so until it has been discussed in the committee. I would particularly like to draw attention to the petition 30 which Mrs Angela Lueger has brought in, and I would like to say this positively. This is about ‘147 – Council on Wire’. It was supported by 30 child law organisations. It is about answering and providing assistance to young people every year 120 000 telephone requests and 4,000 requests online. This petition is about ensuring the financing of this project. We have dealt with this petition at four committee meetings. All Ministries were invited to deliver opinions on this subject, and they also delivered them. In the end, financing for this project was ensured despite the shift of the ORF law. I think it is possible to say that we have achieved the objective and take note of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20207	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20228	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The number of reports submitted actually shows that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has already dealt with and implemented a variety of citizens' concerns. I personally am concerned about the petition concerning “Lammschutz ÖBB im Wipptal” in Tirol. This petition concerns the implementation of noise protection measures in particular in the area of road transport, but some gaps are still necessary in the area of rail. This petition, which has been presented by the mayors of the region and by the people affected and brought in by me, is a simple way to achieve that the additional burden on the citizens of the railways – 220 trains in 24 hours – will be stopped, in view of the fact that there is a shift in transport and more freight on the railways. Unfortunately, our project for the Wipptal vital project Brenner-Basistunnel is not yet entirely on track, and its implementation also takes longer. So we're talking about a loophole. It's actually not about a lot of money, it's just about taking the concern seriously. I would like to thank all those who supported this request and also for being assigned to the Transport Committee. I can also report where this petition is at present. The municipalities themselves have commissioned noise protection measures, which they themselves finance. That's her contribution. We hope that these will be available in about two to three months. It will be the Then it is about creating a financing concept between the federal government, the country and the municipalities and finally implementing this project. On behalf of the population of the Wippals and the political representatives of the municipalities of Matrei, Mühlbachl, Navis and Pfons, I should like to thank myself for understanding and solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20274	The next speaker was Mr Keck. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20295	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 2002, I have been a member of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. The work in this committee is exciting, ladies and gentlemen, because in no other committee the concerns and concerns of our people are presented as closely and authentically as in this committee. Nevertheless, the concerns in the plenary have always been dealt with only by “far away”, i.e. as the last item on the agenda, often too much later at night. I have criticized this fact all these years again and again, and I am very pleased that we are able to experience a real premiere today: This report is dealt with as Agenda item 2. This is a very good change, and I would like to thank all those involved, of course our President, very much for making this possible. I know that this premium place cannot be kept constantly, but somewhere in the middle of the agenda, the reports of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives should always be found, because very important demands are being made in this committee, which have a very up-to-date background. This is the case, for example, in the Citizens' Initiative No. 11. We all know the case of the detained animal protectors, who are suddenly treated as a mafia organisation or even terrorist organisation by the false application of § 278 of the Criminal Code in the legal sense. Especially in these days, the Ministry of Justice is working on a novel of § 278 of the Criminal Code. I support my colleague Mr Jarolim in his opinion that this novel, especially in view of the fact that we have experienced a true scandal of dedicated animal protectionists, has to be carried out very much before it is ready for decision, and NGOs and especially animal protectionists after the novelle are no longer allowed to be treated as terrorist organisations. This citizens' initiative has also been taken note of, because it is already being dealt with in the judicial committee. I hope that the revision of this law will go out in favour of the animal protectionists, so that they can no longer be classified as terrorists and mafia organisations and pats.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20332	Next speaker: Mr Pack. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20354	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already mentioned it, there are two innovations in the work process in this committee. One is that the Committee's collective report today is in a truly prominent place on the agenda. It is. The second point is that last week, with the instrument of hearing, we were able to deal with a different form of this citizen participation. My previous speakers have confirmed that this was a very good access that we have found to discuss and inform about this issue. In advance, as I mean, we have to say – this is important because some previous speakers have claimed that when petitions or citizens' initiatives are taken into consideration, that is as if they were strangled –: If you know what kind of work is happening in the background, as we also discuss this petition, what happens in the ministries and so on, to provide the information to make this decision, then you can't say: There is a strangling!, but it is simply a decision based on basic material data. In any case, the petition or citizens' initiative will be dealt with and efforts will be made to comply with the content as well. You can't pass all points on. I think that's quite clear. In principle, it is a good committee. This also shows the unanimity of the decisions. In this sense, we should continue to work in this way. The fact that citizens' concerns and petitions are not only about communities and sometimes businesses, but also about individuals is a good thing. It is true that there is this committee in this House. We will continue to work in this very consensus. – Thank you for working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20390	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20411	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The citizens' initiative for a third centre shows how difficult it is at times to represent anti-insurgent citizens' interests also in a political group, and on the other hand, how difficult it seems for this federal government to make an open and honest policy for the people of that country. We will then continue to focus very intensively on the contents of the urgent request. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a citizens' initiative for a new first-reception centre in the south of Austria, which was signed by SPÖ members – including Otto Pendl, who is sitting here in the first row – and then comes out of the third last row – I think he is from Burgenland – Mr Steier, Member of Parliament, saying: It's a scandal that you wanted to do this first recording center here. He says that he will go beyond the distrust request when voting – this also shows an interesting climate in this coalition; that is, he has in fact clear distrust of a Minister of Coalition – and also calls for the other Turkish Members to do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very simple way to live up to both the legitimate interest of Traiskirchen, which has massive problems, and the interest that one of course puts an end to the nonsense of another centre of reception. You, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, should also, together with us, ensure that we do not try to include additional asylum seekers who have no asylum grounds at all, but to ensure that the 80 percent who come into the country under the guise of false facts and who do not have a reason for asylum leave the country as soon as possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then we don't need any additional reception centres. That's a very simple matter. We should finally find ourselves in a consensus! This would be in the interest of the population, but not the process of putting all of it under the ceiling for ideological reasons and then, if one argues in the congregation, suddenly stand up strongly to it. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The way in which this happened – this item on the agenda is about the interests of citizens! – it really can't be! We would have expected people's representatives to apologize for this procedure. They represent the people in Austria! If a minister thinks she can do this differently, then we would have expected it from you. If you buy real estates in Eberau here, under the guise of false facts, we do something for the jobs, for the location, and then in a night-and-nebulous action of the populace pure wine and say, in truth, there will be a first recording center, then we will make sure, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that the head of state Niessl will win the elections with great probability alone and your poor head of state Steindl can only criticize his own minister more in renunciation – I mean, you have to make up the party political matter yourself – as one here is dealing with the will of the population in the Burgenland, that ridicules every description. You should really apologize to the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20472	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20493	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Mr Scheibner, there are two possibilities: Either it is always claimed against better knowledge, or you really don't look at the law matter. To this end, I can still formulate: Someone did not get involved in us introducing an asylum court and deciding on the last novel of foreign law. In any case, we are talking about it under another item on the agenda. If this is so expressed in these motions for resolutions, namely, ‘for years’, which is seen in the context of the first place of reception, then you do it consciously, or you do not know yourself. [[Keeping them in height]] Then: At the first recording point, it is only about the approval examination, and there we have an average duration of 37.6 days. That's fact! And because these motions for resolutions are totally wrong, we can unfortunately only reject them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20526	The last speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Set speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20548	Mr President. High house! First of all, this asylum centre has a very bizarre Genesis, what the applications from Carinthia arrive at. There was a community of Carinthia, the municipality of Bad Eisenkappel. It was assumed that the Social Democrats were enthusiastically implementing the Coalition Treaty there – and suddenly decisions and leaflets appear there that you would have criticized if they had come from us, with absolute certainty. The argument – we have not examined whether it is right or wrong, true or false – is that the SPÖ iron cape is that you do not want to have a reception centre there because you fear for the spa center, for the Obir-Tropfstein caves and for the private accommodation companies because of the asylum seekers. – Well, I would have liked to see this if it had sent out a BZÖ local group, ladies and gentlemen! So much about social democracy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I understand! I just want you to finally realize that you are operating with your policy miles away from the base. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As soon as Burgenland elections are held, one discovers the basis on one occasion. Once you are so honest and admit that even your own base thinks quite differently than you and completely different politics, then, Mr Otto Pendl, we are already a lot further. Then we no longer need to see ourselves behind supposedly fast initial examination procedures which we supposedly misjudged. That is what I am going to talk about. Take note – or you know it in the meantime – that the basis of your own party sees things completely differently and even if it is hard on hard, the population argues differently, namely, as I believe, correctly argues! So, now on the question of what the Federal Minister has done in the Burgenland. I do not know what the citizens have done to her, or she has such a disdain for the citizens; she should not take every joke seriously. – Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, it is not only with the population in the Burgenland that you cannot deal with, you can in principle not deal with any population of the federal state. And what you can do less: That is not how we can deal with the legal order! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What Mrs Federal Minister Fekter has done, in her previous role as Volksanwälter, should have beaten her as an blatant administrative maladministration! And she should have beaten the mayor. – You don’t have to shake your head, of course it would have been worth a ruffle! This is a classic case of a maladministration. Because it still doesn't believe the ÖVP, I'll celebrate it to you once. To issue a confirmation of office and to say that all this was already Bauland-Mischgebiet, although the state government had not yet approved it at the time when the confirmation of office was issued, to say that this was not an agricultural use that was carried out there, even though the lease contracts of these land with the farmers there had not yet been terminated – at least the ladies and gentlemen of the Farmers' Federation – which is already to be done on the verge of an abuse of office, because it is an effective false certification by an official body, by the mayor. But it is certainly an administrative maladministration when a mayor does something like this. Then, in the case of the colonization process, which is agreed with the Ministry of the Interior, the state government is pre-accumulating, it is a housing project, and with this advance of a residential construction project, an approval for a spatial planning measure will be provided by the supervisory authority, which would not have been possible if the municipality and thus the permitr, namely the Ministry of the Interior, had put the truth on the table. It has already decided the empty ferenda of the Burgenlande Landtag that with 1. In January 2010, a new law was to enter into force which would have made such an authorisation impossible. It should therefore be assumed that the supervisory authority, the Burgenlander Landesregierung, de legenda would also have assumed that this project would be inadmissible in the construction land-mixed area in this municipality of Eberau. That's what it's supposed to be. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that all this was done in congratulation with this mayor is particularly evident in the press conference held by Mrs Fekter, Minister for the Interior of the 19th century. ==References== She couldn't wait until that's all rightful. That was her fault: She didn't wait for legal force. It was still open to the public before the construction decision was finalized. In the meantime, a building permit has already been granted by the mayor, everything in the hurrying process! The Federal Minister could hardly expect it anymore and had to hold a press conference before Christmas – thank God, I have to say – in which she has mocked the Burgenländer and said: That's right! ==References====External links== I'm no longer interested in January 2010. We have everything under roof and compartment. We have all the permits. The Burgenland government can go brutal! – She has literally said that almost so. Literally, almost so! [[Call the ÖVP: “Nearly”! “Near”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Literally, almost so! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Fekter said: The mayor has already issued the building notice, which no longer affects one of the new spatial planning laws. We were faster than the preventers!, the woman minister rejoiced and turned a long nose, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP: “Nearly”! “Near”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Do you know what that is? This is a smooth administrative abuse, a smooth complicity with a mayor who has misused his office to take a decision against his own population against the legal situation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why you are right if you now get the bill in the Burgenland – Mr Steindl can't do it for it – in the constituency. It is right for you if a minister who had previously been supposed to make such a mistake as an attorney, such a compliment to circumvent the rule of law, to circumvent the building law, to circumventburgenlander Spatial Code, ladies and gentlemen. Faith You're telling me: Tens of thousands of people outside are affected by unpleasant spatial planning measures. Tens of thousands of people are constantly excited about the fact that space - law barriers are being placed on them. Every mayor of you will be able to sing a song of it. What do you think people think when they see a minister herself beginning, together with a mayor behind the back of the state government, behind the people's back and under the rule of law, to get a permit, and then the public turns a long nose?- Oh, my God! That is what I think is the actual misbehavior, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that some of the Social Democratic colleagues are leaving the room today in the vote, because they are not allowed to agree to the motion for a reluctance against Mrs Fekter on the basis of the coalition agreement. They will therefore not endanger the government. That's really not worth Mrs. Fekter either. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you should consider the extent to which such a minister can be carried with you. The signal she sent out is a catastrophic one! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The signal she sent out is: You can break the legal order if it is in the political interest. And this signal is not intended to put confidence in the Federal Minister. But Mrs. Fekter is coming right away with the next cult: She is already threatening the countries that in the future she will use properties in the administration of the federal government, namely the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence, to introduce this first reception centre. [[Call the ÖVP:Eh clear!]] - Ah, "oh, sure"? Well, wonderful! Ladies and gentlemen in Lienz, I warn you all if you have barracks locations: Look at your black mayor, look at your black district captain, look at your black head of state intensively at your finger, because you have to expect that on these properties, in complicity with Mrs. Fekter, who will once appear asylumers! That's the fact you have to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I say to you: For this reason, this Minister is no longer portable in this office. I have thought it intolerable earlier, I have already expressed this in my own distrust, which I have once founded, and the FPÖ has still agreed. Today it has itself Her coalition partner feels that she is no longer portable. Get rid of her!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20693	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 589 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the increase in the support of the Federal Government for '147 - Council on Wire'. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, which is not an asylum centre in Eberau. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an additional asylum centre. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:53:03]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 805/A(E) by Mr Gerald Grosz, Members and colleagues on measures against child slavery (587b)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20787	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Fixed speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20815	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The background to this resolution, which has been unanimously adopted in the Committee, is the issue of child slavery. This is about pictures as shown in a movie: Children knock paving stones, handle dangerous chemicals or create day and night in windowless basements, even for European customers. During the day, young people are forced to work twelve hours of hard work, supervised, beaten and locked in close chambers with wooden boards without mattresses and without toilets. Contrary to initial promises, their wages will never be paid to them. Children are the cheapest workers of the 21st century. ==References== Sold or abducted by their parents, they produce cheap goods for a globalized market under inhumane conditions. It is estimated that nine million children worldwide live in conditions that can be called slavery. This corresponds roughly to the population of Sweden. And, according to the estimates of the ILO, the violence that is added to them kills 50,000 children each year, with the trend rising. The causes of child slavery lie in the economic inequality of this world and in the vicious circle of lack of social systems, lack of education, poverty and exploitation. Today's resolution calls for the fight against the fundamental causes of child labour and for measures to be taken against all forms of child slavery. In view of this, we must also have an economic system that builds on profit, costs it what it wants, and maximizes profits through these inequalities in this world. So it is not only about abolishing child labour and child slavery, but also about eliminating the conditions that lead to the creation of child slavery. This is a sustainable abolition of child slavery. I am pleased that we have brought together a unanimous decision. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20852	The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes speaking time is set. I would draw attention to the fact that if you exceed this, I must interrupt your comments at 3 p.m. to call for urgent inquiry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20873	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree: Human rights are indivisible, are generally valid, are binding, are binding on all. I think there is a consensus about that in this House. We have two points today, where there is clarity. The second point concerns the implementation of the anti-torture agreement in the form of a motion for a resolution. I can point out that it is in the Government Convention: In the implementation of a recommendation from the UN Committee against Torture, a definition of torture should be included in the Criminal Code and the protection against torture should be revised. And the motion for a resolution calls on the Federal Minister for Justice to present a novel that takes account of this Government Convention. This motion for a resolution was also unanimously adopted by the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important that we do not discuss these issues at night today, but at the normal time: Child slavery, anti-torture agreements, anchoring child protection in the Constitution – a point that is still pending. We know that the opposition has not been prevented for any matter but for other formalistic reasons. I hope that implementation of this point will be possible soon. I also refer to the initiatives there have been in relation to Christian persecution worldwide. Just a few days ago, six more Coptic Christians in Egypt were murdered, shot. They're murdered every day. Today – this has nothing to do with the Christians now – an Iranian representative has called me and told me that yesterday it is supposed to have been executed three oppositionists, two out of eleven condemners who are on their... – Indignant, yes. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Two!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Harmful!]] I would just like to point out that the Austrian Parliament is also concerned with this issue. This is happening worldwide, apart from the disasters we have, in Haiti or Albania, where there has been a flood disaster. I would like to express my express thanks to the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister for the excellent coordination. I asked myself, it has worked in Albania, it has come down supplies, from the Red Cross, from the Fire Department, from other institutions, and also in Haiti the use of Austria works. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's terrifying for me, ladies and gentlemen, if it's true – and that's what we all need to think about – that's what came in through ATV today in the morning: According to Haiti, paedophiles are to arrive in mass to serve those children who have lost their parents. If that is true, then there must be a shout and then all around the world must be asked to prevent that. Unimaginable to me! I say it again: Unimaginable to me! [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] For me, it's unimaginable – I hope I don't get an order now – that these pigs travel to Haiti to serve more or less there. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Besides that, there are also children's dealers at the plant. So unimaginable! And we, ladies and gentlemen, have so many discussions in Austria that are really ridiculous in view of these things. We have discussions, for example, about the change in the German anthem. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I end up with a four-liner, which might also have to give us a thoughtful vote, in which country we live: Austria is to envy the concerns it has, while people worldwide suffer, children's businesses take place. Let's change the land of the mountains, let's change it as it was, happy land of the garden dwarfs, oh tu felix Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20959	I will not give you a call for order for the expression, rather for the “garden dwarf”. I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 3 of the agenda in order to allow the urgent question to be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:43]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for the Interior on the establishment of an asylum centre in South (4319/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e20993	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4319/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e21371	I give to Mr Deputies Strache as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e21394	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Mr Fekter! Unfortunately, we have to say it so clearly today in the context of this urgent request: Since you took up your duties, Mrs Fekter, you can find one: Unfortunately, they are completely overwhelmed by God. It has not improved, quite the contrary, we have dramatically increasing figures in all areas of security statistics, crime developments, the education quotas, deterioration in all areas. There is no optimization of the planning sites in the executive area, due to natural processes we also lose other planning sites there, and that is a very dramatic development. In addition, you have also shown how you are looking at your duties and how you seem to think about dealing with people in Austria in the future, and how you are going to deal with them in the future. I say: You just can't let that happen, you can't close your eyes! It was simply scandalous what you planned with the first recording center in Eberau – across the heads of the citizens. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Linder.]] We have experienced an Austrian-wide crime development, with an increase of 2.7 percent in 2009 compared to the same period of the previous year, even an increase of 7.3 percent in Vienna. It is a situation in which we must say that we are in a development where we need to talk about a security collapse. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] They repeatedly disapprove, repeatedly take placebo measures that do not bring anything to the population and security development, such as SOKO Ost et cetera, and try to end this development. They keep trying to deny reality with false facts. That can't be taken away, Mrs. Interior Minister! We have a far-reaching crime to deal with, and that requires concrete action. There is no need for any SOKO East and tortoise strokes of this kind, but at last there is a need for a corresponding personnel-political occupation of 3,000 executive officials in Austria. We need these additional planning sites, we need 1,500 planning sites for Vienna; we have to suffer almost 50 percent of all crimes in the Federal Capital. You're not ready to do something. You're obviously overwhelmed. When it comes to leading the big word and risking a thick lip, you are good, but if you look at your actions, you can see that these are completely different acts than you have last always made sound in your words. That's one time, Mrs. Interior Minister, outstretched. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of fighting crime, instead of ensuring greater security, instead of being real to the citizens and putting in place appropriate measures, you prefer to pave Austria with additional asylum reception centres – not even with the involvement of the municipal councils and the citizens. The councils are led behind the light and not even informed; then we come to speak later. Since you are in office, Minister of the Interior, the number of asylum applications has also increased rapidly. The number of asylum applications increased from a total of 11,921 in 2007 to 12,809 in 2008, and now – in 2009 – we find 15 827 asylum applications again. You have to ask yourself the question: How is an increase of 23.25 percent compared to 2008? This may be a success report for you, but if this is a success report for you, I say: Good night, Austria! This is by no means a success report, and you are responsible for this development. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] It has been around the world that you can come to Austria and make asylum applications and have the chance to stay in the country even in the event of misstatements and in the event of asylum abuse. You are responsible for this, as in the case-law of the Zogaj family – a substitute for 6,000 cases of asylum abuse in Austria, which have been dealt with in court and have not been subject to a deportation process until today. It's all around the world when we dance around on the nose. They have the responsibility to ensure that many people who want to engage in an asylum abuse and therefore come to us try to do so and expect that this could happen. Even if the court finds that one abuses the right to asylum, it is not postponed in Austria because, fortunately, there is an ÖVP/SPÖ government that has even decided to stay, and even if it is found that one has misused asylum law, one can stay in Austria. These are exactly the signals, Mrs. Inner Minister, with whom you, despite your hard verbal statements that you sometimes make, actually cover your wrong policy. It's real that you're doing this. They are responsible for these developments. You can still make so hard verbal statements in public, the reality you are responsible for looks completely different. You are not acting in the interest of the Austrians and not at all in the interest of better security for Austria. Of course, that's what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] Outside, inside puice – this is a well-known saying in the folk mouth, and sometimes one has the impression that you are almost already making green politics, like in the question of Eberau, and that does not come about. [[Abg. Amon: This is an interesting observation! Then why is the FPÖ so nervous?]] It is very interesting if you, as an interior minister, become as active as it was, starting from the humanitarian right to stay, where you have also met the Greens. This is the green policy you stand for – and not for a security and order policy in Austria. They are ultimately responsible for misdevelopments in Austria. Whoever wants to abuse our right to asylum is informed today, so to speak: Come on, you have the opportunity with us! – I say No, no, no, no, no, no, no, A very capitally fragility was your behavior on the question of the first recording center in Eberau. [[Abg. Amon: Madam President, did you hear that?]] That really hit the barrel out of the ground. Because of this incredible procedure, you have a mistrust request. You no longer have our trust if you act in such a way that the citizens pass through and give you such powers for the best. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] If you go here and mock the citizens, then this has nothing to do with political resistance – and that was an insult to the citizens! That was an insult, and I can say: That was a really left-wing process, as we know it from the Greens! In the same way, you have acted on this question by starting to ask local authorities when looking for a location. There, where mayors have reported themselves and the citizens have come to it, citizens have been able to turn it off immediately. So you thought: Let's make it smarter, let's keep it secret! One has sat down with a SPÖ mayor and secretly agreed something, and it seems to have promised at first, because otherwise the development is unexplainable. It has been done without a transparent process, and it has been thought that the citizens will be transferred, kept silent, will create facts and after the country elections in Burgenland, this first recording center will be opened. ==References== December 2009 it was then over with the rest of the storm, past what one has secretly tried to do behind the backs of the citizens, the councils, but also the country; the country has also not been informed. We have tried to present something insurmountable, namely the location for a first-time recording centre in Eberau, and that was planned by a long time, Minister of the Interior! This was a long-term, secret matter, in disregard of any democratic principles. [[Abg. Amon: FPÖ is becoming more and more a security party!]] Otherwise, one cannot express this: This is not the procedure that you can and can expect from a minister! This has not lost anything in Austria: that you act in such a way that you operate politics as you did, and then you use a strawman for the real estate sale. In order to cover up, a strawman is used, disinformation is operated, and the competent authorities of the state government and the spatial planning department are conscious of the planned construction activity simply in the dark, one does not consecrate even the coalition partner. If this is the procedure of a responsible minister, I say: Good night, Austria! Precisely for that, you have the responsibility and no one else. The project's first reception site in Eberau should be carried out without regard for losses, without regard for the citizens concerned. Simply perfected fact is created, cost it what it wants. After all, you have repeatedly confirmed to the public that you were faster than the preventers. You were still proud of your public statements. Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, also came to your aid. It was only when we realized that the pressure on the part of the population is not sustainable, and because we did not want to take the risk of suffering dramatic electoral defeats in the coming country elections, that is to say, that we have risen to the brakes and for the time being we have adopted the Eberau site. But when does the Kasperl Theatre begin from the beginning? When do we experience the next incredible procedure in this way perhaps in another community where you are trying to do the same again? That is why we want to position ourselves clearly and clearly here from the beginning, so that hopefully this can never happen again, because it must not happen as you have acted here. There has also been an application here in the House. ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of the National Council, also in the presence of Ms. Fekter, a resolution agreed on the content of "to involve the communities and countries concerned and the Human Rights Advisory Council in the decision-making process in the planned setting-up of an additional first entry point". This motion for a resolution was put to the vote on 17 November. It was also sent by Parliament to the Federal Ministry of the Interior on 3 March. Nevertheless, this motion for a resolution has simply been ignored. Although the EIA supported this request, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, although a majority had been present in the House and had actually had to comply with the motion for a resolution, thought: What is my interest in Parliament's decision on a motion for a resolution? – Yes, please, what is Parliament worth when you think as you seem to think, because otherwise your course of action is unexplainable? I say it's not responsible to act like that. It is not responsible to go over the citizens' interests so coldly and then to remain sturgeon as you did, and not even to see the mistake. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] After all, you would have had the opportunity to at least apologise and to realize that you have done wrong. I mean, everyone can make mistakes, and everyone can make mistakes, but then at least in retrospect you have to realize that you've done wrong. Then the citizen will also understand and apologise for it. But as has been done here, you just can't apologize. Today, we do not make the motion of censure out of jux and toleration, but the reason for this is these multi-layered points, starting with the negative development that we have to experience in all areas today. The use of asylum has continued to spread, but unfortunately it has not gone down. Crime development – a dramatic increase throughout Austria; in Vienna we must experience a security collapse. Talk to the population in Vienna, where 70, 80 burglaries take place every day and people can no longer be sure when they come home from work, whether the apartment is not already cleaned out! Even in other security areas, up to body injuries, the number of crimes increases. Even the Minister of the Interior confirms that car thefts and burglaries are committed to 70 to 80 percent of foreign criminals, namely organised crime from Eastern Europe. If we experience a development that, in the event of increasing crime, the Enlightenment rate continues to decline and the human under-employment in the executive will not be improved and optimised, then this means that the officials, the executive officials, will fail to do good and excellent work despite the under-retirement with which they have to live today. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] Therefore, because of the Causa Eberau, where you have knocked out the ground, we will present today a motion of censure with full conviction, because it is simply not portable. The Gustopückerl was just this acquisition of land that I have already mentioned. The fact that a strawman was used to buy the plots is even interesting when it comes to hiding. Please explain to us, Madam Minister of the Interior, why Mr Hochreiter has acquired the property as a trustee for the Vienna City Development Fund! Explain this to us, please! In this case, you apparently did not consider an invitation to tender and an award procedure under the German Federal Procurement Act to be necessary at all. Why have the necessary documents been submitted for the construction permit of Mr Hochreiter if the actual construction would have been carried out later by the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft? – These are all very interesting questions, and we are excited about your answers, because we also want to know at what price the federal or federal real estate company should have bought or leased these properties from the owner. A very important question for us is also: Which communities and properties are in question for you as the first recording point after the new search regarding a future location you have already announced? You want to have defined the further results in person by the end of January at least for yourself, so we want to know which communities you have in mind and which communities may have to fear to have a treatment similar to that in Eberau. I say, in other words, it is to be feared that we had to experience this absurd acting and theatre that people in Eberau had to experience, perhaps as a continuation in another community again. – That’s exactly what we want to prevent! We do not want to see a new profile of an interior minister acting in this way, but we simply want more sensitivity in this area and also citizens' involvement. One thing I say clearly and clearly: There is no need for new first-time recording centres. There is no such thing as finally implementing the political laws we have in this country. This is where we have to take responsibility again, because if we finally implement the Dublin II regulation, then those people who come to us through safe third countries and apply for asylum here would be due again to the safe third country. [[Abg. Head: But you have to explain it before!]] Even if someone indicates that he has mental problems, it is not only possible to treat him in Austria. It can also receive perfect psychiatric treatment in Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic or elsewhere. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] It doesn't have to be the way we handle and maintain it today, that everyone who says: I have a trauma!, automatically receives with us an eternal long-term residence permit. No, no, no, And it's up to this federal government to stop that. The legal possibilities are available. We finally have to stop the use of asylum. The 6 000 cases of asylum abuse in Austria have to be clarified and these people have to be postponed. Then there is no need for first-time reception centres, and then the population would also understand that those people who are right to come to us are getting help and rightly granted asylum. But if you yourself say that 80 percent of all asylum applications are at the end – by the Ministry of the Interior, by means of statistics – that they are economic refugees, cases of asylum abuse or asylum seekers who have at some point become criminal, then no decent person, no matter where he comes from in this world, understands that one is looking at them. That's exactly what it's all about: We need a political change, we need a simplification of asylum procedures! If you have a right to asylum, you can stay, but you must finally eliminate the use of asylum, finally bring the people who are using asylum abuse home; a family combination of the Zogaj family in Kosovo should finally be ensured. We must not continue to watch and burden the citizens of Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] That's exactly what it's all about: Austrian asylum law is fundamentally reformed. There must be no room for asylum fraud, as is unfortunately the case to date. That is why we also have the situation that more and more citizens are saying: Yes, please, what kind of policy is this, where one looks away in this area, is not ready, because at last it is going through?- Oh, my God! This is also the reason why the mood towards the Federal Government is becoming an increasingly negative one and that it can also be expected that the citizens of Styria, Burgenland and Vienna will of course return to this federal government in the coming country elections, because they are not satisfied with their kind of politics. [[Abg. Grosz: And choose the BZÖ!]] – Well, the wish is of course a good thought, not a question, but I say: They already know which party is the security party in Austria! There's only one, and that's Austria's Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] They can be relied on when it comes to taking a consistent political path, which we also want to implement. Madam Minister for the Interior, you have proved one thing: The interests of the Austrians are obviously not important to you. You have proven that you are not willing to involve the citizens. You have proved that while you are always making very bold verbal statements, your policies are completely different and are diametrically opposed to your statements. With Eberau, you shot the bird, Mrs. Inner Minister. We don't think you're in this interior ministry in place. You are not an enrichment when it comes to providing more security, but you are through Its operation has become a safety burden in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e21584	To answer the urgent question, Mrs Bundesminister für Innens Dr. Fekter spoke. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e21606	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Dear Eberauerinnen and Eberauer!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen on the marches! Over the last 30 years, more than half a million people in Austria have sought asylum, half of them in the last 10 years alone. That is to say, we have had a very, very strong asylum base in Austria over the last 10 years. For example, in 2001 and 2002, we were at the forefront of per capita taxation across Europe. Several novels – beginning with the liberals, but also later in 2005 and the last one in the previous year – were able to reduce these extraordinarily high number of applications in the European comparison. In order to be able to implement foreign law in order, we also agreed in the 2008 Coalition Convention that we need a third centre. We then determined that we need it in the south because the two existing, in Upper Austria and in Lower Austria, should be relieved so that the duration of the procedures can be reduced and ethnic groups better separated and accommodated in order to avoid aggression and prevent a dive into illegality. However, the number of asylum applications increased again in 2009. By December 2009 we had an increase of 23 percent. We are not isolated, but this is noticeable throughout Europe. Germany, for example, had an increase of 25.2 percent last year, i.e. even higher than we did. But I have tried relatively quickly to create and put on the feet the additional infrastructure agreed in the Coalition Agreement. The other infrastructure that we need for the orderly execution of the right of foreigners is a thrusting centre, that is, a centre for the end of the stay. And, Mr. Strache, just now you have thought a plea to make it all quick. But why are you opposed to infrastructures that make us do this? I don't understand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I have chosen a transparent way to implement these federal investments, both for the push-over centre and for the first reception centre. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A transparent way was that in Eberau?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A transparent way, that must be a joke! What is not transparent with you if it is transparent?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you listened to me, you would know how the procedure was! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We know anyway!]] I have started a call for proposals for federal investment, in which mayors have reported very structurally weak regions, which are voluntary, because they wanted this company with about 130 jobs and a value added of more than 5.7 million per year. [[Abg. Petzner: Who's reported to everyone?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To this day you haven't announced it! Nobody's reported, that's the truth!]] I personally did not know Vorsenberg or Eberau before. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the committee you couldn't call one who has reported!]] The mayors volunteered to us because they wanted these businesses. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which municipality? Who? Not a community has registered!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Which communities have reported themselves?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] – Voluntarily! Listen, you can learn something! Please! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the superiority of a retired minister!]] Then we contacted the mayors concerned, they informed them of the need for these infrastructures, and the mayors offered us appropriate sites, land that were then purchased. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which municipality? Where? What mayor?]] The area dedication has been amended accordingly, in both cases equally. I am in both cases – both in Forderenberg and in Eberau – as well as in terms of the change in the area, the purchase of land and the preparation of projects. [[Abg. Strache: But this is not soothing!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Repetitors!]] Then the situation in Styria was slightly different from in Burgenland. In Styria, both the head of state and the head of state always said that if the mayor wants to have it there, then the country of Styria does not set stones in the way of this investment. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Styrian captain was that?]] Therefore, the mayor in Styria initiated a popular survey. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here we will ask the Voves once!]] For three months, we have informed the population of facts and expertise, providing them with information on the implementation of the project. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Citizen deception was that, first quality! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. It's just a little tricky. That's what's presented as transparency.]] The referendum in Vorsenberg has taken place in favour of this project. With more than 80 percent of citizens, 70 percent have opted for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] We could have gone the same way in Burgenland. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it?]] Unfortunately, the country level was not cooperative there, but in the middle of the planning phase, a law came to prevent any first reception centre, although in July it was already known that we had all the communities written. All have known that we are looking for a location in southern Austrian communities. And then it happened that the Burgenland wanted to prevent this project in the middle of the planning phase. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Did the ÖVP agree to the spatial planning novels? I have the suspicion that the ÖVP has agreed to the spatial planning novel!]] That is why we agreed with the mayor to let the project die immediately. But the mayor then said: No, I want this project. After all, I've been locked up by the school, the village renewal funds have been illegally avoided and the thermal drilling turned off. They dried up the whole region. This is why he has seen a sense of permanent operation with 130 jobs, thus also bringing the Community forward with regard to its budgetary situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, together with the mayor, we said: Okay, if the community wants to have the project, we'll finish it according to the current legal situation bautreif!, and we've done it too. When it was ready for construction, we informed the municipal council and presented the project. In this information and presentation of the project, no one municipal council – even those three of the SPÖ! – Resistance reported or expressed greater concerns. [[Abg. Strache: They are disinformed! They've gotten dizzy! Also the ÖVP municipalities! They complain that they have been dizzyed! Disinformation without end!]] [[Abg. Amon: But go!]] After this information event of the municipal councils on the establishment of a first reception centre with a police department and a medical centre, which is also available to the population, had no resistance and we had a mature project, I then informed the media in Vienna, and at the same time the mayor also informed the population. And what has then happened is well known. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You failed, it happened! They failed!]] But I'm not one to go over it! I proved that in Vorsenberg. I set up both projects at once. Only: In the one federal state there was a reasonable cooperation with the state level, which unfortunately was not possible in the other federal state. As an interior minister, I have the task of carrying out the foreign law in order. And we need appropriate infrastructure for this execution. It is not justified that Upper Austria and Lower Austria alone achieved the provision of these infrastructures, with a first recording centre that may be overcrowded. That is where I expect solidarity from the other federal states and a little more political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: In Vienna, the quota was exceeded by 30 percent! That's not true!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What's in Carinthia?]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: (in the direction of FPÖ and BZÖ) First uptake and basic supply you should already keep apart!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot plan the number of asylum seekers, refugee needs, but we must treat as refugees those who come to us and seek asylum from us, in accordance with the international conventions, but also because of our humanitarian mission, and ensure the appropriate procedures for them. Mr Strache, last year we passed a very good law against asylum abuse. They weren't there, unfortunately! You didn't think about it. [[Abg. Strache: Then why don't you push off?]] Out here demand that one fight asylum abuse, but then do not take the laws along and not to have the appropriate infrastructure built, that is sand-in-the-eye-the-people scatters. [[Abg. - Why are you inactive, Mrs. Minister?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's what you're doing! You're a specialist!]] Mr Strache, I am the Minister for the Interior and I am responsible for both security and asylum issues. I take both parts equally seriously, and I am a guarantee that we cannot handle the social cold because I wanted to take care of an infrastructure for refugees in the first year. [[Call the Greens: You already have them!]] That I don't leave anyone at the moment is on another sheet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The number of asylum applications in Austria is predominantly, more than 90 per cent tow, and regrettably so. That means – you can explain it quite simply –: “Asyl” says someone in Traiskirchen or Thalham in Austria. Not at the border or in a place where he believes he is located in Austria, not at a mayor or a police department, but the tugs bring the asylum seekers directly to Traiskirchen, directly to Thalham. That is why I am tasked with effectively preventing towing. I don't want Austria as an attractive tow country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to help those who really need help, but I do not want to encourage trafficking in human beings. [[Abg. Strache: Why don't you do it?]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: (in the direction of Abg. Because you're preventing it!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: That's exactly what you're doing!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Schlepper bring refugees here!]] [[Abg. Strache: Schlepper brings refugees directly to Traiskirchen!]] That is why, Mr Strache, we need an infrastructure that allows us to deal quickly with the procedures that keep the duration of these procedures so short that they are no longer attractive to tractor organisations. I really take people's concerns seriously. And one thing I can say [[Abg. Vilimsky: Eberau!]] Questions alone have not taken people's concerns seriously and have not solved the problem! Questions are not a solution, just as the Floriani principle is not a solution. I was in Eberau, I know what concerns people have there. If too many strangers come to Eberau at once, they can move freely, then the population will find irritation. That is why I made the proposal to take these concerns seriously from the people. I know these concerns too well. You all know, I'm from that district where the second first recording center is located. I've been a regional member of this district for 20 years. I know in detail exactly what is happening in a first place, in a refugee camp, in care stations and what concerns people in the area have with infrastructures of this kind. I can tell you one thing: Until about half a year ago, almost nobody knew there was Thalham at all. [[Abg. Go, please, for years!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] – Perhaps the Upper Austrian Weinzinger. But I can tell you one thing: There has been no escalation in Thalham for 20 years, no major problems. The crime in St. George's is lower than in comparable places in the district, and St. George's, where Thalham is located, has most of the numbers for tourism in the Attergau region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Have you ever been to Thalham? Have you ever talked to the companies in Thalham? Five times I was there – they are desperate!]] - Listen! [[Subsequent calls to FPÖ and greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore: If you really take people's needs and concerns seriously, you solve the problems! We can prove that we are problem-solving. We can prove it with our approach in Thalham, and I can prove it with my proposal to submit a constitutional bill here in Parliament and to decide on a duty of presence for those who come to us to say “Asyl”, of which we do not know at all who they are, where they are, how they have come to us and whether we are at all responsible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: By plane you will have come!]] In order to be able to deal with procedures quickly, this is essential. Secondly, it is necessary to prevent subjugation into illegality. The population is not clear why in this tow transport of the 64 then 58 who said “Asyl” were “absorbed” after 36 hours of illegality, while those 6, who did not say “Asyl” are insubordination. No one can explain it! But such a thing could be prevented if they were actually available in the first stage. I would like to ask you, Mr Strache, to vote. You have this bill, if we advise him here, even if you really have people's concerns in mind! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Then do your homework once!]] Questions 1 and 2 I answer with a clear yes. Question 3: We need to distribute infrastructure in the federal area for the orderly execution of the right of foreigners. As infrastructure already exists or is under planning in Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Styria, these countries are not eligible. Question 4: ==References====External links== ==References== Following this, a string was created and the project was concretely concreteized with the well-known communities. At the end of October the final row was fixed. The decision for Eberau finally took place after the positively completed completion of the project's construction maturity. Question 5: On the basis of the assessment 1 of the site proposed in concrete terms by the municipality, 2 of the possibility of opening up or already open-ended property, 3 of the legal framework given therein: Land use, construction plan, sub-construction plan, 4. the possibility of creating the necessary infrastructure there. On question 6: The mayor of the municipality of Eberau has actively turned to the Ministry of Interior in the course of the publicly advertised search for interests and expressed his interest for the community. After the ceremony, Eberau was announced to the mayor of Eberau that Eberau was the most suitable municipality. Question 7: The municipal council and the municipal council of Eberau were informed at the time when it was established that the project could be realized on the planned property, before the press was informed. Questions 8 to 10: Both the district head of Güssing and the head of the state of the Burgenland and other services of the Burgenland state government were dealt with to the extent provided for by law as part of the decision-making process. In the context of the conversion procedure, it was necessary to examine by the bodies provided for by law whether the property is in principle suitable for the given dedication. This suitability was confirmed by the fourth change of the Eberau municipality's digital land use plan, which was unanimously signed by the head of state Niessl. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A project-related rethinking – which I am now making clear – is on a specific building or a specific one... is Mr Stadler in spatial planning law, look at the local planning law in force at the time when the decision was taken at that time! [[Abg. May. Stadler: As a special area! You have applied for a housing project! That's a difference!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's exactly the crux! That's where you've dizzyed!]] A project-related conversion is not provided for in regional planning law in general and in the Hamburg Spatial Planning Act in particular. On the question 11: The integration took place before the presentation of the site. Questions 12 and 13: The community concerned was not only involved, but it was the interest of the community to establish the first reception site. The integration of the countries in general and the country of Burgenland in particular was not possible, as it was already clearly signaled by all the countries concerned that everything was done by the countries that the first entry point could not be established in the country concerned. In Carinthia and Burgenland in particular, the laws on spatial planning have been amended to prevent the construction of first reception centres. Therefore, integration was not possible in advance, but the project was completed according to the old legal situation baureif. The Human Rights Advisory Council will only be involved in a first reading as part of the decision-making process, from the point of view of concrete design and the establishment of internal processes, and this will of course be done. Questions 14 and 15: In the context of the search for interests, confidentiality has been agreed with all communities. This confidentiality was desired for those communities that did not come into existence in the result, beyond the decision of the site, and therefore agreed. [[Abg. Scheibner: However, this cannot remove the right to interpellation!]] Therefore, it is not possible for the Federal Ministry of the Interior to call these communities. This procedure is also more than justified in view of the very deplorable attacks against the mayor Strobl of Eberau. Of course, the communities themselves have the right to turn to the public, some of which have also done so. On the question 16: In the context of the assessment process, the relevant municipalities were assessed on the basis of the expected properties. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That alone would be a reason for a mistrust!]] This assessment, which was ultimately crucial to Eberau, was due to the above mentioned reasons. There's an oral agreement between me, Captain Mag. Voves and Landeshauptmann Deputy Schützenhofer, according to which the Styria will no longer receive a first entry point due to the consent to the establishment of the Schubhaftzentrum in Vorderenberg, because I think that the infrastructures should be equally distributed to ensure the orderly execution of the foreign right in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question 17: The negotiations and meetings for the project's first reception site in South Eberau were attended by the staff of the Ministry of Interior, by the market community Eberau the mayor and his staff, the builder, the members of the planning team, an external consultant and the construction expert. On the question 18: The first reception site is to be run together with a police department at the first reception, a medical centre, which is also available to the population, as well as the legal and social advisory infrastructure under the applicable framework conditions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's something else again!]] On question 19: Christian Hochreiter, Marius Consulting Zieltechniker GmbH and Hauswirth & Partner GesmbH were commissioned to carry out the planning work. Question 20: The purchase of the property was made by the head of the planning team. On question 21: Because Mr Hochreiter was the head of the planning team, which has driven the project to maturity. On the question 22: The provisions of the Federal Procurement Act 2006 as in force were, of course, complied with. As part of the establishment of the project, the necessary services must then be tendered in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Procurement Act. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has been the next swindle that you have proposed a strawman!]] On the question 23: Since the head of the planning team was also the basic owner of the property, the current project was also submitted by him as a builder. Question 24: Negotiations with the BIG cannot be preceded at this stage, which is why this question cannot be answered with regard to the amount. On question 25: As a Federal Minister for the whole federal territory, I have a serious desire to take the people's wishes seriously, no matter where they come from. There are currently 1 309 signatures for the rapid establishment of a third first-supply centre here in Parliament, introduced by Mayor Knotzer, Deputies Pendl, Deputies Wittmann and Deputies Weninger, namely with a view to the discharge of Traiskirchen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: From Styria!]] This desire for me will soon be to be discussed in the Committee on the Interior. I am therefore supported by 1,309 signatures in the immediate establishment of such an infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it's up to Parliament, not you!]] On the other hand, the vote in Eberau or in the southern Burgenland will probably not be the same support for the establishment of the project. But all citizens are worth the same to me as the Federal Minister. That is why we have a consensus on this. On the question 26: Due to the announced resistance of the mayors and national leaders, the alternative location search is difficult. [[Abg. May. Stadler: If you do it the way you do!]] On the question 27: No, because questions alone cannot solve the problems and the fears of the population cannot be eroded. But I take the fears of the population very, very seriously. That is why I have just proposed a constitutional legal anchoring of a duty of presence in a two-phase model. We shall endeavour to bring this legislative text to the House as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22559	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. This is what Mr Ing has to say. Hofer. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22586	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Fekter, you have now explained very precisely why you have chosen the procedure in Eberau in the last few minutes. But I ask you: What did that do? We all know that you are not what is called sympathies. You don't have to be in this function either. But all of us have believed that we are dealing with a very intelligent minister who also understands how to enforce himself. I believe that this process has not been done with the fact that it has done a great deal of damage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have been discussing Eberau for many weeks now, and there is no question at all that people have been deceived, deceived and deceived. Also, the head of state of the Burgenland, who in a letter to the citizens, addressed the households, literally says: Secrecy and deception of the persons concerned should allow for the establishment of the centre by attack. In this letter, however, he also admits that he must ultimately wait for the decision of the Supreme Courts, for he says: The first recording centre must not be built at this time. If you have listened to the Minister of the Interior now, you have also heard that she continues to hold on to this project politically – despite all protests, despite all the problems! Once again – and I have to say that again today – I wonder the behaviour of the SPÖ. It is true that the two mandaters, Kaipel and Steier, will leave the room during the vote, while in the Burgenland, they make a great effort to be credible in demanding the withdrawal of the Minister of the Interior. They would now have had the opportunity to take up the counter-proof, but they left the hall. It's not very courageous. We will then also inform the citizens of the country about your behaviour. But let's think back! – I have to say: I reject the behaviour of the Minister of the Interior from the bottom of my heart, but what the SPÖ is doing is much more shabby. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, there were negotiations with Federal Minister Darabos, and there has been signed that there should be a first recording centre in the south of Austria – but not a word of it that it should not be in the Burgenland, but not even any word of it! [[Abg. Grosz: A so-called Desinformation Minister!]] I saw Mr. Kaipel on a TV show at PULS TV, where he said: Well, you know, the Ministry of the Interior is often misinformed, and that's why the negotiations have gone so wrong! – That was the weakest excuse I’ve ever heard. Let's go on! – Call for tender, invitation to the mayors to be interested in this project – Carinthia, Styria and especially the Burgenland are of interest – but there is no response from the SPÖ. Then comes the decision Eberau, where the minister has now told us that the country wanted to prevent the project in the middle of the planning phase. In view of the fact that the country of Burgenland, the Burgenland state government, changes to law by 1. January 2010 wanted to implement, do you still want to say that you did not know that a first recording center can be built in Burgenland? Why then this decision with 1. January 2010? You have to explain that too! Then the big shout of the SPÖ: Retirement request to the Minister. – Today, you express your confidence to the Minister. Then the statement: We don't need a third recording center! – Now comes a third first recording center. Then the shout: The demand for duty of presence is something completely evil! - Now comes the duty of presence. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we need this SPÖ in this house for? You're gonna fall over again and again! What else do we need this SPÖ for? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: That is true, this question is justified!]] There will also be no wealth tax in Austria. You won't do that either. Ladies and gentlemen, we will call for a nameable vote. I hope that all the mandates will be in the House during this parliamentary vote. Otherwise it would be necessary to speak on the Rules of Procedure, to request adjournment of the sitting and to ask those Members who are not apologised to go to the house. I'm excited who that will be. And what bothers me very much: There is a request here, which has been decided in Parliament, which obliges you, Mrs Bundesminister, to involve municipalities, countries and the Human Rights Advisory Council in the decision-making process. I would ask myself why, as the executive's body, you simply ignore the decision-making of this House. Everyone's got to say, That is not the case, red and black, which have also decided to do so. But no one complains about it. So what is this House worth when decisions of this House are completely worthless? That is why the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is ready to resign. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, if a representative of this House makes a parliamentary request on your subject and asks what communities you have negotiated with, and you then answer that you cannot answer it because you have agreed silently with the mayors, then I say to you: I do not care what you have agreed with, there is the right to interact with the mandates, and you have the right to answer these questions, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Fekter, it's not like we don't appreciate much of what you're doing. That would be unfair. [[Abg. Amon: Oh that!]] But I say that this procedure you chose here was really last-class. They have tried to get themselves a reputation as an “iron lady” in Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, this has gone into the pants thoroughly, and I also believe that it is not good to do away with politics, because there is a saying in the country, which says: “Damage and pride grow on the same wood!” And, ladies and gentlemen, we must pay particular attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22706	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22804	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22826	If I make the words of my previous speaker happen again, I have to say one thing: He was in a deep sleep and the liberals in Burgenland were also in a deep sleep when these events took place around Eberau. And I can still remember when we were sitting in the “ZiB 2” and had to discuss the coup of Scheuch brothers and the Hypo Alpe-Adria, when the whole thing was so shot up: There was nothing from the blue for weeks because they were busy working on the hypo-alpe-Adria scandal chain and because they constantly sought the physical and political proximity of the Scheuch brothers. This should be said clearly once, because now, Mr Hofer is trying to bring a little bit of an election spirit into his troop – but I think that is quite wrong. If we look back a little on the time from 2000, than – and I prefer to say the top term – the third camp in the government was: the crime intelligence rate as low as never, the immigration rate as high as never before. [[Abg. Grosz: Which camp do you mean? The third asylum camp?]] When I look at when, for example, the “backbag” was created in the asylum proceedings: That's all at that time! – And now come [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: such a fool! It's all right!]] They are giving us talks here about inefficient administration and political failure! In addition, under the participation of the social democrats in government, changes in the legal nature of the area of foreign law and asylum have come about, in particular with the establishment of the asylum court, that the procedures have been accelerated. They were able to read in detail a few days ago in a daily newspaper that this “backsack” has already been reduced to half and that it should continue at this pace – while respecting all the rules: in respect of human rights, while respecting fundamental rights, while respecting the legal basis, while respecting the Constitutional Law, which is the basis and the order of values in Austria. That's crucial. What bothers me so much in the whole discussion is that there is a mixture and mixture that is partly simply inadmissible. And this is particularly evident from the example of Mrs Zogaj. I am simply not willing to accept that asylum seekers are automatically equated with criminals, with people who come to Austria and are in principle willing to break laws, subvert and others. There are these gaps, these gaps will be fought – and they are to fight! We are on the front line when it comes to fighting illegality, illegal immigration, abuse in the asylum field – but we have already fought it. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Now you will become cabaretist!]] [[Abg. New builder: They are in the High House and not in the Cabaret!]] Together with this government, we have fought this and have achieved the closure of gaps. Think of the follow-up proposals and the problems involved! We have found human rights in accordance with fundamental rights rules in order to prevent abuse in this area as well. Therefore, I must say, it is unacceptable if it is done as if abuse is done automatically by those seeking asylum. Asylum is a human right! These are people who have to be persecuted for political, religious and other reasons and who have to tremble about their lives. These people have a right to be treated properly! That is why we have said that when they come, they have the right to a rapid procedure, to a fair procedure, and they must join with us in defending themselves from being called into question because of those who abuse it. It is the task of all of us to address this whole thing without emotion and without other strategies. – That’s the one side, and it’s clearly shown once. With regard to what is happening to women Zogaj happens – I am of course of the opinion that laws must be complied with, and I also acknowledge that there is such a thing as the right to stay –: I just find someone who has been here for ten years still to treat like this unacceptable! One should see that there is a solution that can remain in the final effect in Austria. And it should make us proud that there are people who speak our language integrated and say: Here it is so beautiful, here I want to stay! – I think that should make us proud, and nothing else. And I think that is an important aspect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: And go to the opera ball!]] On the matter itself. In any event, we have been involved in the acceleration of asylum procedures, in the reduction of the ‘backsack’. We have been involved in trying to close all possible gaps further. Now, in the government agreement – I can confirm this – there has been the passus, there should be a third centre, and on this basis the Minister of the Interior has finally become active. Only – and I have to say that here too –: There can be no head of state in Austria – no one, that's not a specific from Burgenland! – this procedure, which has been chosen here, has been successful! This is unacceptable. That is what Mr Landeshuptmann has said, the state government has, in the end, expressed almost all the parties, but Mr Landeshuptmann, of course, in the first place, most clearly and audiblely, because he is the head of state and because he has also done the right thing on this question. I think what he's done here is also right, and that's what you can say. And in the future, certain conclusions must be drawn, namely, to make it the way it was actually in Vorsenberg and also in Thalham, for not all those involved in Eberau were actually involved. It is not a bad priority if you ask the population, but rather something a priority good: A popular survey, as it is now taking place in Eberau – at best but right in the three southern districts in the Burgenland – is a democratic process, which I believe will be all right, and therefore this will take place in this form. I believe that if this happens in combination with the fact that there is a reasonable language – in recognition of who really is here – but also with the involvement of the population, it can be taken into account without prejudice, without images of enemies, and with reasonable reason, the tasks that Austria has to set itself for human rights and fundamental rights and values. So: What's so hard? I think that there must also be a Ministry – if you are looking for an implementation here – to make it in a form that is accepted in the federal state concerned. This was not the case in the Burgenland; I also told you personally. We will see whether in the future – there are talks – a third centre is needed at all. In any case, the number of asylum seekers in January is such that we now have to look at this for a few months in order to assess whether this is at all necessary. Finally, I plead for a disarmament of words and feelings and for addressing the issue in quality and at the cultural level as it is worthy of Austria. I'd plead for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22929	Mr Amon has now come to speak. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e22951	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Today's urgent request from the FPÖ is of course something very special and actually expresses very well how nervous the FPÖ is, because you are increasingly getting rid of the security issue. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Like each other!]] This is the actual Prob lem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: I find that funny now!]] I am grateful for your call, Mr Strache, because your speech has not necessarily expressed the fact that you really know safety issues. I'd like to tell you that. [[Abg. Strache: This is what we saw at the last election of personnel representatives!]] For, Mr Strache, you had to take note, in particular, of the extremely impressive opinion given by our Minister for the Interior: The security of the Austrian population is in the best hands of Maria Fekter. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: We have seen this during the last personnel representation elections!]] This Federal Minister is standing, and she will be and we will not be impressed by your request for distrust. This is a minister who is standing who does not fall by, Mr. Strache. And I'd like to tell you: Courage – courage! – in contrast to citizenship in some areas of the country, it is not possible to buy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You don't trust a citizen – just here!]] Mr Strache, it is already interesting that Although you are in favour of the Eberau site – that is relatively simple – then – and this is really interesting, Mr Strache, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The Federal Minister has done so in a really charming way, but if you read the first question again, you will see what question you ask her: [[Abg. Grosz: Very charming! Charming bolts!]] ‘Is it right that the establishment of a third first entry point for asylum seekers in the south of Austria is agreed in the government agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP?’ The common citizen must already ask himself the question: Is the FPÖ actually able to read a government agreement? Or does it already need the right to interact so that you can read what you can download on different websites every day? Are you unable to read the Government Convention because you have to ask this question here? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Ask the SPÖ, because SPÖ claims that there is no government agreement!]] [[Abg. Grosz: There is no “common” citizen either!]] [[Abg. Strache: The SPÖ claims there is no agreement!]] No, no, it is your urgent question, Mr Strache, not the question of the SPÖ! But I'd like to meet you and read it again. [[Abg. Stache: Please don’t – run away from me!]] On page 109 of the Government Convention, see point 1.3. under the heading ‘Development of an additional starting point’: “A new, additional EAST – the first place to take up – will be created in the south of Austria to discharge the capacity in the existing first recording points.” – This is the comprehensive answer to your first question. And if you deal with geography a little bit, you will notice that there are not so many possibilities in the south of Austria. [[Abg. Strache: Talk to the coalition partner!]] In Styria, there is a facility for this purpose. You, Mr Strache, reject this in the Burgenland. [[Abg. Strache: We reject any other first recording center!]] Then there is the beautiful state of Carinthia in the south of Austria, where you have had a ban on entry until recently, but now have best contacts. I'd just ask you to put in your media skills, maybe you could get a solution! [[Abg. Strache: We reject each other!]] The Republic would really be grateful to you. [[Abg. Strache: Maybe at home with you?]] We have great doubts that you will succeed – but perhaps you will help us, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: We reject each other! We don't need anything!]] – It is also a command of solidarity, Mr. Strache, to relieve the institutions in Traiskirchen and Thalham. You're someone who pretends to want to fight crime. But there is also a need for some expertise, I would like to tell you. And it is not fair, Mr Strache, that you constantly mix the question of criminal foreigners here in the country, where there are deportation measures and measures to end your stay, with the question of someone coming into the country, pretending to seek asylum or actually seeking asylum. [[Abg. - What if it's going to be a criminal?]] First of all, we must determine whether this is someone who is actually going to get asylum or not. It is necessary to separate this finely clean once, and because we have to separate it clearly, Mr. Strache, it is also the idea of distributing all those who arrive here, first of all to all states, simply and simply impossible. The idea is not necessary, Mr. Strache, and we have to say that clearly. And it makes sense what the Federal Minister has proposed, namely, to establish an obligation at the beginning of this procedure to actually have the people on the ground in order to be able to carry out all necessary reviews. This is, by the way, not so far from the current legal situation, because the current legal situation also provides that, according to § 15 of the Asylum Act, an asylum seekers have to participate in procedural proceedings and the leaving the first reception centre is not justified if the asylum seeker fails to do so. So, so far from the current legal situation, the proposal of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is not removed. It is a good proposal, but we must also ensure that the people who are applying for asylum are actually available for the time of the procedure. We will, of course, reject your request for distrust. He's not justified by anything! The safety of Austria is in the best hands at Maria Fekter.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23253	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. I place the clock at the full speaking time available to you: 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23274	Madam President. High house! Dear guests at the gallery! I will not comment on the adventurous comparisons made by Mr Amon, but in my speech I will address the more than strange proposals made by Mrs Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine an interior minister who at all costs wants to become the dungeon master and Austria as a watch and close company! Imagine a Minister of the Interior who, on asylum and human rights, almost exclusively invades the terms “criminal” or “abuse”! But she's not stupid: She's been starting for a few months, always adding as a last sentence: But we must protect those who have asylum grounds! However, 99.9 percent of her speeches are dedicated to so-called abuse and so-called crime, although as Minister of the Interior of this Republic she should know that we unfortunately have no data and no statistics to date, how many asylum seekers have been legally condemned. We don't have these statistics. And because the Minister of Justice is also sitting here and for information to all citizens: For more than two years, between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, a working group has been meeting, among other things, on the issue of finally coming to reliable and real statistical data, how many asylum seekers have actually been legally condemned. And if we are already talking about a rule of law, the number of those who have been proved guilty should be decisive, so to speak, by an independent Austrian court. The Minister of the Interior has no figures – but that does not matter because it is her way and her policy since she is the Minister of the Interior, that she should not be “irritated” either by data and facts or by the case law of Austrian Supreme Courts. Imagine an interior minister who, in order to be able to divert from her Eberau secret plan, calls for collective detention of asylum seekers and asylum seekers over weeks and months! And that they do this again in all clarity – in an amazing clarity! – has said, let me doubt: She is a trained lawyer, but she obviously did not know a lot during the Jus study, namely that people cannot be imprisoned because of the fact that other people feel irritated by their presence, because: We're still a rule of law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are talking here about an interior minister who is very important for Austria, the topic of integration, by initiating a process in which the social partners, ministries, experts, experts, can spend months in working groups on the subject, so that the Minister of the Interior then, without any agreement, goes out on its own, a list of measures not funded and then the Chuzpe has the opportunity to present them as a National Action Plan for Integration. We have to deal with an interior minister who not only confirms the ethnic police controls here in Parliament, but also proudly says that these would be correct measures to combat crime, by the totally unspoiled and also not accused citizens, just because they have a certain passport and, so to speak, they have the wrong to enter Austria for crime purposes and here, for example, to commit burglary thefts, to visit the Austrian police and to face absurd issues. We have already discussed this several times in the plenary and also in the committees. Ladies and gentlemen! We have this Minister of the Interior in Austria, and we find Greens, that is unbearable! That is why we will be expressing once again our distrust in this House today. Now back to the “Church Master”. What do we mean by that? . We mean that, as Mrs Minister has once again demonstrated here, however, as evidenced by several newspaper reports, she is for people who have not broken anything that has just submitted an asylum application, for weeks and in some cases for months, timelessly easy to register, because, I quote, “the freedom of movement of asylum seekers from the first minute is very annoyed to the people.” Mrs Federal Minister, I ask myself: If the irritation of citizens is to become a cause of imprisonment by other people, a reason to block people, and if they do not stick to it, you are threatening them with forcefulness – that is, your concrete proposal – which is also a prison, then I wonder which population group will probably come next. Maybe the punks? It is known that several citizens in Austria feel irritated by punks: The fact that these are allowed to walk freely on our streets is quite annoying for some. What will be your answer, then, as a minister of security and home affairs? – No problem, I’ll just register it, because you have to respond to the fears of the population!Unknown term type: "%s".? Who will be the next group? Maybe the homeless, because anyone feels irritated by their sight and that they can just walk around freely on our streets? And this is what the Minister of the Interior of our Republic says, which should actually be the foremost guardian of human rights in our country, and does anyone seriously propose to isolate Austria internationally with this approach? – This is simple and very unbearable and unscrupulous. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Fekter, you obviously only think until the next election, and They are expected to have in mind the municipal elections in Lower Austria and the so-called agreement with the head of state Pröll yesterday, which will take place “at random” in March. But we find it abrupt that the Austrian Minister of the Interior thinks only until the next election and obviously tries to score here with a very bad mood and believes that she can overtake the right hand. The SPÖ did not succeed in the 1990s, and the ÖVP did not succeed in the 2000s, and you will not succeed today. So you should get away from it as quickly as possible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'd like to say a few more sentences to Eberau before I close. [[Call at BZÖ: Maximum time!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's 12 minutes!]] The Minister has – and she knows – since she was in office, the possibility of distributing asylum seekers fairly across all the federal states. Interestingly, in today's issue of a daily newspaper, after we Greens have been telling her for months, she also announced that she would have the opportunity to house asylum seekers in the federal states in their own buildings. I wonder, Why didn't she do that? Why has the discharge of Traiskirchen suddenly become so important only in the Lower Austrian election campaign? Why hasn't she done anything to relieve Traiskirchen? And why is it now facing us with a brutal approach that not only solves problems but makes additional problems? Ladies and gentlemen! For all these reasons and for many more – and unfortunately time is not enough to list all of them exhaustively – I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To the address of the Minister for the Interior: Mrs Minister, you have repeatedly disqualified yourself from this office by your approach in terms of content, human and political. Please make room for someone who really holds human rights high and who sees it as his task to actually implement human rights! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23375	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23541	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23562	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Of course, we will also express our distrust today by agreeing to the request for distrust of the liberals. Only: It is only consistent with us – and that should be said before – because I can already remember that it was eight months ago, on 29 May. Mr Stadler, who has already filed a motion of censure against the Minister for the Interior, was May, because we already knew where the journey was going, and at that time clearly and clearly formulated what we think of this Minister and her policy. You were there – and now I am speaking to colleagues from the liberals – unfortunately not so consistently, because you then defended the minister – and this has surprised us all very much – wordfully. For example, Mr Vilimsky said that he still supports Mrs Fekter's motion for a reluctance to support the BZÖ's motion for a reluctance. But the bird was shot down – and I really have to keep it – by Mr Hübner, who said in the debate at that time as a reason why he was against the motion for a reluctance – I quote him: He is therefore opposed to the motion for a reluctance because Minister Fekter has shown that she is standing where we stand. – This is “wonderful”. In conclusion, this would mean that today's motion for a distrust against the Minister is a mistrust against you. That's the result if you're not consistent enough. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are consistent enough, we are full of your policy, Mrs. Innenminister, last May, last autumn, and also in the new year we are full of your policy, Mrs. Minister, because you have failed spectacularly in asylum and foreign policy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It's been a long time!]] In the fight against crime, in your contribution to ensuring security, you have also failed spectacularly. They are planless, conceptual and pointless. [[Hello-Rufe des Abg. Rädler and other representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's crazy!]] If you go here today and say you're going a transparent way with your policy, I wonder, Mrs. Minister: What is transparent if you do not even refer to the constitutionally established right of convergence of Members? I asked you several times in committee: Which municipalities have notified themselves of the invitation to tender? – We asked you today too, we have asked questions. Not a single community, not a single mayor, you have been able to call it the "great" first recording center or the thrusting center, whatever, Mrs. Minister. Now there are two options – I have said this in the Committee: Either no one has reported – then it was an obvious flop of yours – or someone has reported, and then there is what has been overturned by a colleague from the ÖVP's banking series today, who has said: Imagine calling these mayors, these ÖVP mayors – they would no longer be elected! [[Abg. Head: What does “ÖVP Mayor” mean? How do you know that?]] That's the fact: They will no longer be elected, and the mayor of Eberau will also be elected, and it will rightly be elected, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Großruck: That says hand-beat quality! – You do what you want!]] You're supposed to take the right to be serious! Call us the mayors who have signed up! I tell you, you won't do this because you don't have the mumm to do it and because you don't even value transparency. And secondly, you've done real Dirty tricks on the call for tender, because you really wanted to have dedicated a housing project, but a special area should be dedicated. – She doesn’t listen anymore, she now hears strenuously away. I believe that we should submit this in the form of a well formulated announcement to the public prosecutor so that they can examine it, because you have not allowed transparency to operate here, but you have carried out invitations to tender with Dirty tricks here, and that will have legal consequences, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You stand here and say that you are responsible for an orderly execution of the right of foreigners. – Mrs Minister, there is only one form of the orderly exercise of the right of foreigners, which is the application of the so-called third-country legislation. That is, there can be no asylum application at all and no positive if someone comes across the country road to Austria, because we are surrounded, so to speak, by secure third countries. Therefore, one can only get a positive asylum notice if he comes by plane – and that is a minority, you can check it out. [[Abg. Grossruck: Where is he in here? Czech Republic, Italy, Hungary? Where did he come in? That's where I need to know where he's coming from!]] Therefore: No follow-up requests, nor positive asylum decisions! In fact, it is de facto a zero rate that has to be ruled here. That would be an orderly execution of the asylum system which we demand of you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The clubman Cap is the best at all. He poses himself here and has once again lived out his unsurpassed trauma, the terrible, from his point of view terrible, blue-black coalition. – I just call you a number: In 2000 and 2001, when we arrived, we had to deal with 30 127 asylum applications. Then we made reforms in foreign law, and at the end of 2007 there were only 11 000 asylum applications. And in the short time from 2007 to 2009, when you were back to the government, do you know what happened? There Austria has become the fifth most effective country of asylum in Europe! The five-acting thing! – That’s your dubious balance sheet, that’s your policy, and that’s why we express distrust. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Fekter, you should consider: All three opposition parties express your distrust. And already parts of your coalition partner: Mr Steier will leave the hall today. I don't know if that's very courageous. Mr Steier, stay there and vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. That would be courageous, and that would be a straight line. – Her own coalition partner, Mrs. Minister! And I am not talking about the countries of the castles in your party, about Mr Steindl, whom you have passed over there, because he has long expressed your distrust. Mrs Minister, this is the truth: They're just retreatable! They should resign, make room for a new security policy, for a new immigration policy, for a new order also in the case of law and security in that country. This is, I believe, a crucial question that we have to solve. We have 53 intrusions every day – in order to speak to the safety still – 53 intrusions! We now have 70 crimes every hour that happen. And what did you say half a year ago, still in summer: “I think the worst” in the house collapses is “all over”. – That was your assessment of the summer, to read in the “Kurier”; I brought it here. – Nothing has survived, it has got worse! And you announce that “still this year” – that is, 2009 – there will be higher minimum penalties for burglary. – Where is this, Mrs Minister, where is the implementation? – You quit a lot, you don’t do anything, and that’s the real problem we have with you. You would have a single form of security, as you can also give an answer here to lift security in Austria, because Austria is now a breakaway paradise – that is not what we say, but the “Kurier”. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go!]] The Minister of Finance says: “Go!”. He does not believe what is in the “Kurier. ” [[Abg. May. Stadler: Raiffeisen-Zeitung!]] [[Abg. Bucher: In a black paper!]] Talk to the editorial staff once! An EU statistics says Austria is a burglary paradise, Minister. Take a look at this! I suggest something to you – there is actually only one answer to that which we have been calling for for for months, weeks, which people in Austria also call for, and that is: Finally, to re-control borders, finally to re-establish border controls there, so that all these criminal gangs and criminal elements do not penetrate into Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what we expect from you. This is the core problem you should take care of. And something else, Mrs. Minister: Faith You're really afraid that burglars who come here and may even be in danger of being caught have a special fear? Faith You really do, in the current punishments, the ones that rule – still to where we have had a Berger’s release package since 2008? Mrs Minister, look This is what you're trying to do, please. And the Minister of Justice is also required, and we are going to ask again, just as last year, where you answered us that 1 500 convicted offenders have been released early through this detention package, including burglars, thieves and child abuses; and to a large extent foreigners, to a large extent foreign offenders, who, if they promise to go to their home country, will be released in advance. Mrs. Minister, this is a scandal! I ask both ministers, Minister of Justice and Minister of the Interior: Create Get rid of this nonsense, this prison release package – and put the punishments up! Then there will also be a deterrence, and then we will also be able to control crime in this country again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23748	Ladies and gentlemen! I have so far clearly followed the debate very closely and have also set myself the goal of not putting every word on the scale. I could have put a lot of words on the scale in the previous debate, but the sentence, Mr Westenthaler: ‘They are... pointless’, [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As Minister! Of course! Of course!]] - You don't take it back? - Then you'll get a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I said: you are pointless as a minister! - She's really pointless! – If you're saying you're pointless as a minister, that's an order call? There you are as President...!]] Next, Mr Kurzmann. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23796	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. The balance sheet of this Minister of the Interior can easily be summarized in three words: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Such a senseless minister!]] The attempt to force the population of Eberau into an asylum camp, to force it to do something similar to that of Traiskirchen, this attempt, as we all have seen in recent times, has failed. You, Mrs Federal Minister, have done an impressive pre-examination of how to cope with an over-reacting tactic very quickly when you are constantly making policies against the population. You have not only exposed yourself with this process – that is not your case – but you have done serious damage to the reputation of your ministry – which is more difficult, and which is what we deem to be liberal to you. Because one thing is obvious: They have no solutions at all to the forthcoming problems, both in terms of combating crime and illegal immigration. They speak beautifully – we know it from numerous debates in this House – and you also act with half-truths, as was the case in the Thalham case now, where you have praised Thalham as a tourist community, so to speak, because the proportion of foreigners is said to be so high. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Thalham is not a community! This is in the municipality of St. Georgen!]] – The opposite is the case, because there is probably a citizens’ initiative that this centre does not want. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's what you've told us, just as you often act with half-truths. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The Freemans initiate this!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: It's outraged!]] – You see how excited the Minister of the Interior reacts once you face the truth. First, you explain for weeks that a first-reception centre is indispensable in the south of Austria, although it is said that the numbers of asylum seekers are falling over and over again. We liberals have pointed out this obvious contradiction from the very beginning. If Austria – and this has already been done by Westenthal – is surrounded by secure third countries, then these masses of foreigners cannot legally come to our country, as you always say, and then there should be no need for such an additional asylum camp in the south of Austria at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why does anyone even come here? I don't understand! - Let's see you again! Good bye!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals say quite clearly: We do not want such a first recording centre in the south of Austria or anywhere in our Republic. We do not want similar abuses to those in Traiskirchen to take place everywhere in our country. And you don't seem to have agreed with your coalition partner properly, because if I remember correctly, recently, Chancellor Faymann also said that he is asking whether Austria needs such a first-time recording center at all. [[Call to the ÖVP: But he signed it!]] But, Mrs. Federal Minister, your entire foreign policy is really a single huge pleite. As you can see from schinasylants like the Zogajs for months, this is a shame to the rule of law, which is a provocation for all law-abiding citizens in this country. You only need to look at the newsletter page of the “Kronen Zeitung”: You'll be advised to get through at last. That's what it says: Finally, get through the deportation! What are you doing? Zogaj and her mother still in Austria? The suicide threat of the daughter was a ridiculous theater to enforce the so-called humanitarian right to stay. [[Abg. May. Korun: They are “a soul of a man ”! A whore!]] The mother who still does not speak German, although certain good people always want to talk to us again and again, they are all so wonderfully integrated, who does not care about their mother's obligations, but prefers a comfortable life in Austria at the expense of Austrian taxpayers. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You're really last-class!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You already have to go bad in your life, that you hack around on others who are not well!]] And you, Mrs. Fekter, are not just playing with you in this position, but you are unfortunately playing a leading role. They are promoting illegals and schinasylants instead of finally implementing your supposedly strict asylum laws. In this regard, you would have support in us liberals if you really were to fight crime in this country, if you really were to stop immigration at last and enforce a zero immigration, because that is the essential goal to push forward the integration of those who are not yet integrated. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we note: The Minister of the Interior is responsible for the dilution of the Austrian police apparatus, which threatens the security of the Austrian population. – You do not take action against asylum fraud, you have become a single security risk to this Republic through your bird-sluggish policy, and that is why you should withdraw today!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23953	Mr Pendl is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e23975	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would say, and I have expressed it very often in recent years: More serious, more sensitive in such matters, because we are talking about people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the FPÖ: About 8 million!]] And I believe that it does nothing – neither here nor the local population, nor those who need our solidarity assistance – if you consciously or unconsciously mix all the laws. It doesn't get any better, it doesn't get any better. And if you have followed the debate up to now, you have to ask: In other words, what do you say? You want! [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Why? That's what I'm going to have from you to tell me what I'm saying!]] – Non-compliance with the UN Convention on Human Rights, non-compliance with the Austrian Constitution, non-compliance with the rule of law. All of this, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, you reject it! – We have laws to comply with, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can make this clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vock: “In all clarity”!]] Now one can be of a different view, no question at all, and one can also discuss politically: If we had done it this way, we would have done it that way. – But who, I ask, is telling us here, and in reality all the last years, always the same? You can really make fun of it or not, but sometime the people will also realize that it is unnecessary to play with the emotions of the citizens. [[Abg. Grosz: What the Social Democrats have...!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] It won't be better, and it doesn't matter if the blue or orange or indifferent, as they are now called, is, I'm just telling you the following – that's where Mr. Klubobmann can say: [[Abg. May. Korun:... in Burgenland?- Oh, my God!]] It wasn't me!; although he is personally right, but nevertheless –: Look at the numbers when we had the highest number of asylum applications! No matter what the colorful story just said, we were in opposition at the time. When have 3 200 executive planning posts been saved? Who was in the government? – Don't call, Mr. Westenthaler! You were in the government. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] And so goes the story. But I don't want to talk about it, I'm talking about human dignity. We must also make it clear that since 1956, when Traiskirchen and our district have shown general responsibility for this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, and I am now very consciously saying this as Lower Austrian MPs, coming from the district of Baden, that since 1956, Traiskirchen and our district have shown public responsibility for this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, without us having taken up the population without using false arguments, we have only endeavored to achieve a burden distribution within the Republic objectively and honestly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun]] This is a legitimate demand in the interests of our citizens, but also from the point of view of the humanitarian situation for those who are in the first place, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And if you permanently criminalize all strangers, you can only do that consciously, because the numbers speak a different language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] If you are discussing a first recording site, then everyone here should know that it is only about testing and admission to basic care, and we have an average stay of 37.6 days. [[Abg. May. Stadler: How high is the share of foreigners in the detention centres?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are expressing here that we do not need an additional first place to take up because asylum seekers can be distributed throughout the world. In a place wherever possible, the procedure must be managed administratively, and I say that the people, both in the Vöcklabruck region or in Thalham, but also the citizens of us, in the south of Lower Austria, in Baden, have a right to be relieved because they have been doing the task for the entire Republic for decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Where it is not a burden!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Finally, let me point out one thing: If we take the Austrian federal constitution seriously and if we take the rule of law seriously, it must be clear to us that, when we place emphasis on the rule of law, there are no longer many possibilities to significantly shorten an average stay of 37.6 days – or we give up any legal culture, and that, I believe, cannot be in our minds and even in the sense of the Austrians. [[Call the FPÖ:Dublin!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all: We must simply look at the fact that we are not giving up public responsibility anywhere! I call on all the federal states and invite them to join us in this so important task, because we must solve them together! One can now debate how it would have been if we had done it differently, or not, but to make a problem of substance a problem of trust, which I leave to your assessment. – I see it differentiated and different.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24146	Mr Kößl is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24167	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! For the time being, I would like to say a warm thank you for the commitment which the Federal Minister of the Interior is showing for this place and for the people on a daily basis, and I also congratulate her on how she leads the Ministry of the Interior: with a sense of responsibility special. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kurzmann]] It recognises the concerns and problems, and it is precisely after these concerns and problems that they are being dealt with. I would like to say thank you very much, Mrs Bundesminister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The opposition has again shown quite clearly today, it can do everything, it does everything. She does not offer any solutions, but she speaks badly, and she is not narrow with her expressions to the Federal Minister. It is really a shame if we have to listen to this choice of words! I do not expect anything else from the opposition, but one thing I expect from the coalition partner: that today he does not go out in the vote, but that he shows the quality of the handshake that he remains inside and that he stands by what is also in the coalition agreement, namely that we need a third first-shot centre in the south of Austria. Dear ladies and gentlemen! What is fact? – The fact is that we have increasing numbers of asylums. In 2007 and 2008, they were 11 900 and 12 800 respectively. [[Abg. May. Korun: What about 2002?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! To all those who always say the boundaries must be closed again: We have had much higher numbers of asylum applications in Austria in 2002 and 2001 – and that in the case of border controls. As asylum seekers were also taken to Austria and, of course, they have also submitted their asylum application here. In 2009, this figure increased by 23 percent. Since we signed a coalition agreement in 2008, according to which a third first recording centre should be installed, I think we should not discuss today at all whether we need one or not, because we need one. Of course, last year we also introduced our foreign law, because we want to speed up the procedures. We want to stop abuse, we want to bring back as soon as possible all those who have a negative asylum notice. This is only possible if we install an additional thrusting centre – we do – but at the same time we also need a first recording centre so that we can accelerate these procedures accordingly. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was proposed by the Federal Minister that all those people who say “Asyl” and put their request in the first reception centre, of course, during this procedure, have access to them at any time, so that the procedures can be handled quickly and quickly. This obligation of presence is not an Austrian dogma, but we find it in many European countries – these are countries like the Netherlands, like Malta, like Portugal, like England. So there is this duty of presence in different countries, and I do not understand at all that there can be a discussion in this direction in us. If, for the duration of this initial admission procedure, we consider the obligation of presence to be meaningful and necessary, we should also implement it. I really want you to agree to this bill when it's on the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24216	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24248	Thank you for welcoming me, Mr Vice-Chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to address Klubobmann Strache to and for myself in the very first line, but he disappeared from this hall shortly after he gave his speech. [[Abg. Grosz: Hunterball! Turn the bottles!]] That's nothing new: The speech is usually given decently and discreetly, shortly after that the liberal is aloof and volatile. This is nothing new, which also makes Klubobmann strache, so I ask the remaining Members of the Freedom Party something quite simple. What, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, would you do if an asylum gang sold Austrian citizenship to Russian oligarchs in the middle of Austria? Would you first lock them in or move them off first, first treat them with the Taser, first take them off the fingerprints or everything in common? – Of course, it was not an asylum gang, but it was a band of Carinthian liberties. [[Abg. Dr. Königshofer: Don't tell fairy tales, Mr. Colleague!]] What proposals do you have now? Let's take a second case: Members of an asylum gang drive across and drunk by carinthia with their own or the service passenger car. – Yes, there were no asylum seekers, it was a leading representative of the Carinthian Freeman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] With regard to the Iraqi gun slider, who was sentenced in Germany and who was sent by a Carinthian state captain to St. Veit an der Glan and where the Carinthian Freeman tried to obtain Austrian citizenship for this condemned Iraqi gun slider: What have you done to those Carinthian Freeman gangs? Or the people who, together with the Croatian Mafia, spent the Carinthian tax money in and outside our borders, were the asylumists or was that the Carinthian Freedom Band? I slowly believe that the Minister of the Interior must also give an answer to how we deal with the well-organized gang of Carinthian Freemans. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] And my proposal is: Minister of the Interior, set up a first-slaughter centre! We need a first-time deportation center for the gang of criminals in Carinthia. This is an important question of security policy to which we must find an answer. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] And now I'm wondering, Why is the Freedom Party constantly working for such foreigners, why constantly for Russian oiigars, why constantly for Iraqi arms sliders, why for Croatian mafia, why for foreign tax evasioners? – You remember when we discussed banking secrecy and loopholes for foreign tax evasioners in Austria, the liberals said as the only one: No, in Austria foreign tax evasions must be protected at all costs! - Why? What's going on? Why are these your friends? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] What does Klubobmann Strache have to do again and again in Russia? What friends don't we know yet? What business connections do we not yet know? What party donations to the liberties of Russian oligarchs, from Iraqi arms scrapers, from Croatian mafia, do we not yet know? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] What is the difference between the Croatian mafia and a certain political mafia on this side of the borders? And how, Mrs. Bundesminister für Innens, do you want to deal with this political and not entirely uncriminal bond formation? Well, that's one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Whether the problem can be solved with an intermediate station on the Saualm, I do not know, but please, Mrs Federal Minister, give us an answer! Secondly, We also need to discuss the ÖVP's replies. Mrs Bundesminister, Alev Korun has already said this: It is not possible to lock everything that fears Austrians. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Yes, there are people in Austria – not very few at all – who are afraid of certain groups of asylum seekers and asylum seekers. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, there are also many people in Austria who are afraid of you. [[Call at the ÖVP: Who?]] It's no answer when people fear Maria Fekter to lock Mary Fekter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fear alone can't be a reason for being locked in! We'd have to lock up Maria Fekter. We'd have to get H.-C. Lock down tights, maybe I'd be at risk too, I don't know. Please, finger away, that's not politics! In Austria, people who have come to debt and are legally sentenced after a proper trial – and nobody else! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's how it looks in a rule of law! Thirdly, at the address of Social Democracy: Ladies and gentlemen! Dear comrades! We cannot and must not vote on human rights. The question on which to vote in the south of Burgenland is to be answered is: Say yes or no whether asylum seekers and asylum seekers can be taken up at all! And if no is said in the south of Burgenland – which is to be expected – it is also said no in the north of Burgenland and is, of course, said no in Carinthia and is said otherwise where no. – With this, you reach a secure no to an asylum right and a secure no to a securitised human right. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! How far have you come that you are the first in this Republic – the first! – to vote on human rights? And what is the next human right to vote on? The problem we face is the following: In the so-called foreign policy, which should be human rights policy and security policy at the same time, we today have to deal with four free parties in a very different way: a red liberal party with a bad conscience, a black liberal party with much less conscience and two totally impeccable parties, which are once again a single Freedom Party. I appeal to colleagues, particularly in the SPÖ, but also in the ÖVP: This cannot be the last word on human rights and the rule of law, since there must be an alternative! – The first step would be that at least one member of the SPÖ stands up and says: That with the referendum is actually not a good idea; let's stay this, let's withdraw it! Let us see that a red head of state behaves once more as it used to be in social democracy! I think, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, many of you feel that you have reached a very crucial point in your party history with this referendum in the south of Burgenland. This is not about anything, it is about the SPÖ's attitude towards human rights. And this is the first time the SPÖ says: In the Republic of Austria, in a rule of law, it can be agreed on human rights. – Think about it again exactly whether you really want it! One last word to the Minister for the Interior, because it makes sense to do so in the end: Mrs. Dr. Fekter! You know it yourself, you have today, by your way of answering the question, also quite mediated it: They failed! They have failed in asylum and human rights policy, they have failed in security policy at the same time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have experienced some Interior Ministers, but I have not yet experienced anyone in this office who has failed so comprehensively and so successfully. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have shown that it is possible to link in an unbearable way of inability and inhumanity, and I therefore urge you – even though today only a very strong minority in the National Council will vote in favour – to: [[Abg. Grillisch: such a fool!]] Take the criticism of the population seriously, take the disaster seriously in Eberau, take your failed crime seriously, and do Austria a single favor: Step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24399	Mr. Dr. Pilz, it is perfectly legitimate that, when discussed here in the House, of course, one also goes hard with political parties in court, which one does not belong to. Nevertheless, it is not legitimate to call parties as “bands” in this room, so I give you a call for order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Give order call? We're not in a monastery!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Half the state government is under corruption, and there you can't...?]] Next, Mr Grosz. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24453	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I can rarely support Dr. Pilz, but in one I do it by also asking the Minister of the Interior to act here, and emphasize: What we have here inside politically expressed by this “family tankcracker” – this is more obstinate, because I do not say “bands” – that is, what we had to experience here from this “family tankcracker”, in short FPK, really has criminal relevance. Then: There are lower instincts, which are no longer possible even for human beings, to be addressed to the being in Austria, namely: Scrupulousness, abuse of power, greed, infidelity, characterlessness, which in many areas exceeds the criminal relevance. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister of the Interior, together with the Minister of Justice, to finally ensure the rule of law here in this system. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be the case that the officials and responsibilities of the Republic sit in their offices, and then perhaps in one case or another, in the procurement of citizenship as a counterpart, they ask for a so-called “begelitmusi” or when issuing a report, break their heads about how to “visit” the money, or in another case when it comes to the dedication of the territory in a community – and I certainly address the mayors sitting inside here – perhaps still stop the hand, because that is “part of the game”. [[Abg. May. Stadler: “Part of the game”!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this republic is not that far, that we are giving in to corruption here and that we are making the character weaknesses of individual actors a system mistake in our Republic! That is why, Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice – who is not here now – we expect the rule of law to return. For the morale of this story, the voters will ensure that the executioners of such unscrupulousness run away in crowds. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Mrs. Fekter, after you got the first job from us, also the second. What you have been doing here as Minister of the Interior since you took office in this country has nothing more to do with seriousness or responsibility. I used to say: Like a woman-in-law, you move through the country and have spread fear and terror for over a year and a half. I bring a few examples from the chronology of your failure, especially in the field of asylum. First example: Ten places, according to your own words, would have been reported for a first place or for a thruster centre. The rest are places like Leoben and Eberau, where all say: No, please, not with us! Mrs. Interior Minister, no one has reported to you. That is why I would like to ask you to proceed with a little more honesty here in this House, and to explain to us who are even these ten places that you have dubiously led from the government bank a half year ago. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who was that? We want to know!]] Who are these ten places? Is it Eberau who doesn't want to? Was it Leoben who took unanimous decisions against it? [[Abg. Grill: Fürnberg!]] Mrs Bundesminister, stay You ever go to the truth? You're under oath! They have made the oath to the Republic of Austria to protect the Constitution and to act truly. Therefore, explain to us what you meant by your plans and your constant statements! Second example: People survey in Vorsenberg. – For those who may not know: The text of the People's Survey in Vorderenberg was as follows: Are you sure that in the future the baker will register more for two semesters and that the installer may receive a contract in two years, so that perhaps in the third episode economic growth will flourish in Vorderenberg over the next hundred years and that at the end of the day perhaps jobs for 120 employees for Vorderenberg will look out? – That was the question. To the simple sentence: Are you in favour of the creation of a hub in Vorderenberg: yes or no?, the democratic Minister of the Interior was unable. I'm sure it didn't play. After all, it was a “receptive bill ” to add a“ medicine bill ” so that people could even understand what was meant in this popular survey. – This is how the Minister of the Interior is doing in this area! Next example: the area of executives. – As Mr Westenthaler has already said today, we have a 70 percent increase in crime in the field of burglary and a 3% fall in the education rate. In this country, Lotto, “6 out of 45” is safer and more profitable – logical! – but also to break into this country as a normal job. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's logical!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, what do you represent the international intruders when you say: 97 Intruders come away from us anyway, that is not at all a problem that can walk out at the borders again, and by the gangs that fall across Austria, only 3 percent will be caught, break in wherever you want, a few chandeliers are still to be brought, the rest has already been dusted at the last dawns!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mrs Bundesminister, you are responsible for this chaos in this area! Further example: The number of posts in the executive has remained the same since 2000. – But we have other threat scenarios in Austria. We have experienced the opening of the Schengen border in Austria. The criminals no longer work with the screwdriver, but their tool has become more modern. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Similarly, the criminals, Mr Pendl, no longer rely on the sausages and on the handcutter and then go somewhere through the window. No, they use electronic devices. They use modern technology to get into houses. And our police are all unprotected. Mrs Bundesminister, all this is the trace of failure that you have been drawing through the security ministry of this country for a year and a half. That is why we are going to distrust you again today, because we expect a Minister of Security, a Minister of the Interior, to take responsibility for you to address the matter with seriousness. Madam Minister of the Interior, we also expect you, in the field of asylum, to finally recognize that there are applicable laws: Dublin Convention and Dublin II Regulation. We expect from you that if gangs of asylum seekers who are not even likely to have asylum status in Austria travel via Italy or Slovenia to Austria, it will be found at the border that not Austria is responsible for these asylum procedures, but Slovenia or Italy. To do this, we need a federal border guard unit from units of the Federal Army and the police, which we have proposed by the BZÖ. That we can't raise the walls anymore, we know. The walls are torn down, and that's a good thing. But this does not prevent us from quickly ensuring that the borders are controlled so that in the area of asylum abuse, we greatly reduce the number of asylum seekers in basic care, where there are about 25 000, by implementing the Dublin Convention and the Dublin II Regulation. Then we have a few hundred asylum applications a year, and not the chaos you broke. Mrs Bundesminister, if the solution comes, if you finally implement applicable law, then we do not need an additional first place or a push centre, because then we will get along with the existing institutions and then we will be able to relieve them, too. Then we no longer need to talk about Thalham and Traiskirchen, but then these institutions, which we already have, would be relieved and thus also the people there. That it is a burden, Mr Pendl himself admits. First of all, he's doing an advertising event like a coffee ride: That's so great, everyone should get an asylum center, that's all so great!, but then he says: Traiskirchen must be relieved! What, if not from a burden, do you have to be relieved, Mr Pendl?- Oh, my God! The fact that you make it possible to contradict yourself in a sentence is a master achievement! But we are already used to more of you. Mrs Bundesminister, open the way for a proper security policy! Show propriety and character, step back and take care of In the future, you will be looking for other things where you do not pose a danger to the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24566	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24587	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! First of all, in order to demonstrate the constructiveness of the liberals here, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a demand where, if the Minister were to address a reform which the Minister not only put forward in a placid way to the media, he would actually carry out, deserve or receive our trust. But this is not the case, because Mrs. Federal Minister is a master of announcements. The asylum court, as we know, is there to speed up the procedures and bring about a discharge. But what does the Court of Auditors' report, Federal Government 2009/13, say – I quote – is: ‘The one with 1. Until the beginning of 2009, asylum court set up on July 2008, was unable to fully exploit its performance potential. The Federal Government's requirement to reduce the procedural residues by the end of 2010 – and thus a savings potential of rd. 37 Mill. EUR – it will therefore not be possible to reach.” – Quotes. That's the fictitious thing that comes out then! That's the problem! Now to the previous speakers who have already spoken here, to the speech by Mr Amon about that from Pilz to that of Grosz: It is noticed that we are approaching the height of the carnival. On the statements of Mr Pilz, who is already everywhere, from left to right here in the plenary, only more liberals are whitting: This is really a problem where I would seek advice and help outside the House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the question of the procedure of the Federal Minister: It is true that in the past we have rejected requests for distrust against the Minister because we have trusted her announcements and because we have believed that she can have our support for these measures. But now you see at Eberau, the synonym of failure and intransparency, which can come true. What happened here? – I recall the media coverage in this case: The seller of the property there was said to be building a housing company apartments for young families. That's why she gave the property. From the beginning, everything was negotiated under the spell, as it is so beautifully said, it was kept secret, it was muttered. The project was already fixed and finished – all of which, of course, costs something – and now it is being stamped. This has caused an economic damage to the Republic by not having carefully examined: Does this have a chance at all?, but by investing money in something you have to take back now. If it is said that the representatives of the congregation, when it was presented, have not objected, I must say: No, when they heard it for the first time, they must have been in a state of coma with a loud shock when suddenly such a plan for an asylum reception centre in their community comes to the table, where the mayor has not even trusted the councillors, the councillor! I am pleased to see Mrs Rudas again, who has a hearing problem in intermediate calls from the side, which other Members who have been sitting in their place in the meantime obviously do not have. [[Abg. May. Rudas is just entering the meeting room]] Mrs Rudas, in the speech of the clubman Strache, constantly called in “Jägerball”. I can only tell you one thing: Their security policy seems to look so that free democratic expression applies only to those who inflame cars and drive in front of the Hofburg. The sense of security at the hunter ball or democratic opinion is not if someone who does not fit Mr Strache with mineral water bottles adds another place to someone. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Body injury is not security, nor is it democratic expression of will – something that you obviously tried to challenge permanently with the word “huntball”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rudas.]] Those who do this are not ours, but your friends!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24742	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24925	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e24946	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter, I can ask you to be a little more serious! To blame the Burgenland for lack of cooperation is probably far-reaching. You already know that there is a thrusting center in the Burgenland, in Eisenstadt, and that the Burgenland is also ready to keep the quota. We are already disappointed that you are trying to go over the Burgenländer in a night and fog action. It's not the way you represent it: that you played with open cards. They have tried to build, implement and build people beyond this center. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Passing the rule of law, passing the law, which is much worse!]] What else would your statement mean: We were faster than the preventers, or what does it mean if the Lord's head thinks otherwise such a project could not be realized? Mrs. Minister, it is not up to you to go over people under the rule of law. It is also peculiar to the behaviour of the mayor in question, which will still have to be questioned. It is difficult to imagine that he has committed this breach of justice by himself. I very much hope he hasn't been seduced. The fact that the municipal councils, as mentioned earlier, have looked forward to looking for apartments and thus mirrored false facts in order to come to appropriate decisions is very, very worrying. The fact that after this right-wing procedure was imposed on these silences, with the threat of regress, reminds us of a policy that we actually believed to have behind us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is equally worrying, however, Mrs Innenminister, that you still have four relatives sitting in Eberau, who are “burning” tax money, just to observe and influence the population. I tell you, I know about the people themselves, they really feel persecuted. There's a phone-terrorist. Please stop that! People are called by any person where they are tried to influence them in the survey so that they show their behavior as you want. Minister of the Interior! We live in a free country; even Eberau has the right to live in freedom. It is a consequence of what is happening in Eberau, and I must therefore urge you to take the Eberauer out of your hostagery. Pull off your hogs there lightning-like! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To the invitation of the liberals to vote today: Mr Hofer, this will not have been meant very seriously. So far, the liberals have done nothing for the Eberauer. You waited until Mr. Landeshuptmann took the problem off the table once – and then Mr. Strache came with his well-known “Benzincanister” and tried to pick up voices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] Mr Hofer, you're Burgenländer yourself, don't think the Burgenländer is so stupid, they already know who's making a shame and who's working for it! They know very well that they can expect the support of the head of state, and they also appreciate his support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only the Eberauers, we have all not forgotten what happened in the year 2000: These were also the liberals – you were the ones! – who sent 3,000 policemen home. You have reduced the sickness allowance, reduced unemployment benefit, introduced study fees, introduced ambulance fees, and so on; the list would continue for a long time. It was you who, to support the so-called little man you pretended to be, were massively exhausted. We cannot support this policy. Therefore, the consequence will be today – Mr Steier has already announced it –: We will not take part in the vote today in protest against the process of the Minister of the Interior, but at the same time we will not be willing to break the coalition income because it is not worth a new election that the liberals are constantly trying to blow the government – for their own sakes, that is of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] Mr Hofer, at heart: There's certainly nothing better for Austria when you go fekter and get a stretch. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You can stay there and vote! Be brave!]] I just explained this: To support you with such a policy is not in question for us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although the Greens are always on the road with broadcasts, they are then forced to take responsibility and simply weaken the meeting, so that Mrs Brunner will not be able to support the Burgenland. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: You also want to blacken the vote!]] On the role of the Austrian ÖVP: While there is a strong criticism from Mr Steindl about the Minister of the Interior, he also suggests that he did not know anything, the fact is that mayor of Schachendorf asked you, Mrs. Innenminister, just recently to remove his municipality Schachendorf from the list. And if you know that the wife of mayor ÖVP is a member of the government in Burgenland, it is hard to imagine that the party president in Burgenland knew nothing about it. But anyway, either the Steindl told people a shame, or his friends in Vienna made him die stupid. Anyway, both are bad, and the Burgenländer will know how to assess this. In conclusion: It is a fact that the head of state of the Burgenland has tried very quickly to withdraw the building notice. The renunciation has been initiated. It was the only one who actively supported Eberau until now. And it will also be the case in the future that head of state Niessl and SPÖ will ensure that no one passes over the Burgenländer in the future. And we will also ensure that the opinion of the Burgenländer is heard. The result of the survey is valid for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25063	Next, Mr Glaser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25085	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate women ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In some cases, it is difficult to bear what is being said here by the opposition to our wife's Minister of the Interior, and I also believe that Mr Kaipel should consider his choice of words a little bit. [[Abg. Steibl: That was the SPÖ! That's crazy! What kind of coalition partner is that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At least I would expect that those Members who know the Minister of the Interior from the Justice Committee – who for a long time led the Justice Committee – will remain fair to her and will admit that her rule of law, respect for rights and respect for human rights are a deep concern. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: That's where you have to laugh!]] You should really admit that to all those they have experienced in the committee. Secondly, I think it is quite logical and clear that Mrs. Dr. Fekter represents and represents the tasks and responsibilities that she has, and is also responsible for them. I think that even if You are not here already of this opinion, the population is of this opinion and supports and appreciates the policy of our Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thus, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the issue of Eberau, as Southburger countries – and not as East Burgers and not as Lower Burgers – which today is the subject of two very conflicting requests for distrust. No doubt this discussion on the subject of Eberau has aroused a great deal in the field of asylum, with the reaction of the population of Eberau being the one thing – and this reaction is also understandable from my point of view. It is also not driven by xenophobia, but the population simply reacts because it does not know what it is expecting. - That's Eberau. However, as absolutely incomprehensible and problematic, I see many reactions outside of Eberau. For example, if at so-called information conferences, Mr. Lander's head of state of the Burgenland shows a film about the contribution of the Burgenland to the Hungarian uprising and thus says how helpful the Burgenländer were, that's right. Just, unpronounced, he says: We've done our part, we don't need to do anything now. - That's the message. Then, at these information meetings, there are speeches that remain unanswered, which have been reported about ORF Burgenland, that 99% of asylum seekers are so-called ‘G’ India’. [[Abg. Wheeler: Bravo, SPÖ!]] In reality, ladies and gentlemen, this is a profoundly embarrassing statement – but it has remained incontrovertible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In view of the fact that xenophobia and security phobia are being preached by some media for years by some parties, it is not possible to be surprised. Then some countries will adopt spatial planning laws which, in my opinion, are actually unconstitutional in order to make asylum reception centres impossible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What is unconstitutional about this? Please explain that!]] [[Abg. Petzner: What is unconstitutional about this? Explain this once!]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen Stadler, some representatives of these countries say that the obligation to attend is also unconstitutional. [[Abg. May. Stadler:..., this is constitutional!]] So there can be no greater contradiction between one and the same person if you don't want one and the other! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: You have to explain this, you have said that the amendment of the Space Planning Act is unconstitutional!]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, against the background that I must mention briefly, that Eberau and the region simply need economic assistance. In the last fifty years, half of the population has gone away. It has been crucial to this region that the Burgenland was the Objective 1 area. However, there has not been any larger project in this region, but the Council of State Schools has closed the primary school as a cultural center of this region. The population has resisted and now has a private primary school by means of a private initiative. That is to say, this population was created by national policy – by the SPÖ country policy! – leave for the most part, and it is very easy. I would like to conclude by saying, and it is really time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to bring this unworthy discussion to an objective level. Refugees are refugees, and they need our help. At the same time, I believe, it must be possible that cases of problems among asylum seekers can also be identified as such and that they can also be taken out in the course of a duty of presence. I also believe – and with this I am still addressing the government partner – that commitments entered into are very easy to meet, see Coalition Pact. I also call on the countries to carry out their tasks and duties accordingly. Finally, I would like to say that our Minister of the Interior, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, has done nothing but implement the Coalition Pact, but simply to demand the needs of the countries. I am sure that our Federal Minister will ultimately find a solution that will calm down the Eberauer on the one hand, but on the other hand it will also help to ensure that the refugee question, the asylum issue, is properly resolved. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter therefore has our fullest confidence – also for the members of the Austrian ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25246	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25267	Ladies and gentlemen! This meeting has already produced two significant results. On the one hand, I have heard from the Minister of the Interior that she has a humanitarian mission. This was the first time she let us know. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. May. Korun.]] It has not yet been deduced from their work. The second success is that at least for a short time, Mr. Strache has gone out of the “side-view” scene in the downfalls of politics, unfortunately only for a few minutes, because if you want to know what Mr. Stache is doing, you have to go through the “side-view” scene at the moment. [[Abg. Amon: (in the empty place of Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek clearly) He should be there with the wife Glavischnig in hand!]] We know that on the weekend he was eating at the “Rosi” in Kitzbühel Schnitzel, obviously on Tuesday at the Jägerball – so he is now more present than on the internal political sides. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: On Monday!]] I'm not saying that's a mistake. I'd rather, he's present there than he's making internal policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Where is the woman Glawischnig?]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the matter. We can think about why the Minister of the Interior has secretly instrumentalized a naïve ÖVP citizen to come to a first reception center. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Where is Mr. Pilz?]] I think this is a rewarding question, because if we ask why, then we go back in history a little bit and see that in Austria there was always support when large refugee flows came to Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why is Mr. Pilz gone again?]] I remember the Hungarian crisis, the Prague spring – Austria has helped. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Where is the Lord Pilz? His glasses are here!]] In 1989 it became more difficult, I remember the uprising of Kaisersteinbruch in Burgenland, where people were no longer willing to take up the refugees. Today, we are actually facing a situation where one has to get the impression that an initial reception centre for asylum seekers in Austria is totally impossible. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Where is the mushroom?]] There is really the question why this is so, and the answer is relatively simple: Asylum law has been attacked and discredited in Austria for many years, and today we are being given the exact account that politics has driven Schindluder to put asylum, crime and migration into a pot from comfortable upholstery chairs. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz, who goes to his place) Ah, now he's back!]] One does not need to believe that on the one hand one can make politics or political change and then on the other hand a serious concern like a first-rate reception centre can be realized without the citizens being afraid. You've been scared, and now, Minister of the Interior, you get the bill presented for your policy. You just jumped on this train. The FPÖ started with it, and you were there. They wanted to position themselves there as an iron interior minister. You've always discussed asylum, migration, crime in one, and now you're wondering that you can't enforce this first reception center. You can't leave the SPÖ out of duty either. The SPÖ has some defeats behind it, and I cannot defend the impression that you are now trying to find new recipes, and that legal populism is also tried as a recipe. But that's dangerous. Perhaps it is for the Burgenland that, because of this playing on the right-wing populist piano, the state captain Niessl is going to “beat” the elections half-way – under quotation marks. This is dangerous, however, because the answer of the Minister of the Interior in Buhlen for the favor of the right-wing voters has come immediately. This is a spiral that screws itself to the height: The one wants to exceed the FPÖ, the next tries again to exceed the SPÖ, then returns the FPÖ, which the Minister of the Interior wants to exceed. It's dangerous! I note, on the right side of the Republic, it is obviously narrow, ladies and gentlemen, and this should be borne in mind above all the SPÖ: It is simple and simply dangerous to make politics like that. Her answer to the fears of the population, Mrs. Inner Minister – that is, to lock up – is more than problematic. They say “obligation. ” I say: How, then, do you want to enforce this duty of presence? Will you put the federal army at the door? Will you put the police at the door? Will you forget the windows? Let us know how you want to enforce this duty of presence! It's unconstitutional in any case, that's one, and the other: It's just inhumane, Mrs. Interior Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The FPÖ is a special case. In political terms, asylum seekers are declared free-wild, but rich Russians are then obviously able to buy citizenship. It is measured by two measures. Don't tell me it wasn't! You know exactly how the Carinthian Formula One driver came to his Formula One cockpit. This is what Mr. Dr. Haider told him by conveying him a rich Russian, to whom he in turn gave citizenship. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Jury]] - That's how it works in the FPÖ. There are several measures of measurement. I hope that will not be hidden from the voters and the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25435	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25456	Mrs. Federal Minister! Since you have been exposed to such severe criticism today, I would like to help you a little bit by making a mistake analysis of why you have ever come into this misguided situation of being confronted with a mistrust request today. Let's start with your first mistake – that's perhaps the biggest one – that you've taken up the office of the Minister of the Interior in the knowledge of your own inability. [[Abg. May. Molterer: My God, one who really ate wisdom with the spoon is speaking!]] Then the second mistake is that you have allowed SPÖ and ÖVP to write into their government programme, that we should build a third first recording centre in the south of Austria. You have already faced the problem of how to implement it now, even though you know that we really don't need it. You then thought that you were particularly skilled, you commissioned a Carinthian, Mr Haber, to prepare a study, paid him € 25,000 and organized a award ceremony for this first recording center, some community will already report and swallow the crotch, and you are therefore going to get rid of the problem and move the responsibility away from yourself as an interior minister. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's got something against Carinthia!]] That didn't work either. This also shows all your answers to the questions we have asked from the BZÖ. The fact is that no community has applied. – This is simply the truth, because no one wants and wants this first recording center. Therefore, you can still not call a single community that has applied – because there is no one at all! Then you have to look for one, and since the BZÖ has very strongly opposed that such a center is being built in Carinthia, you have somehow come to Eberau and have thought that the mayor there will wrap you in, drive over the population, just build it there, and the problem is done. - That didn't work either. Now your malaise has grown even bigger. I could have told you the counter-strategy from the beginning. The only thing you should have done is to do what the BZÖ as the only parliamentary party has said from the beginning of this debate, namely that no third centre of reception within Austria is necessary if the following measures are implemented: first, the reintroduction of border controls, second, the creation of a border protection force, third, the speed of the implementation of asylum procedures. If one implements these measures, this third centre is not necessary at all. I would also like to take a brief look into the future and conclude by saying: You won't be holding the office of the Minister of the Interior for long, because your own party will put you in front of the door. The SPÖ, which has already begun to swirl on the BZÖ course, and finally the ÖVP will also agree that we will not get a third first recording centre in Austria at all, and thus the BZÖ would have survived once again at the end of the day – everything wonderful!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25509	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. Fixed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25531	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, to the Greens and Mr Steinhauser, who has harshly criticized our party chairman. I'll tell you one thing: It is better to have an observer who is with people – whether they are hunters or skiers – than to be one of you who prefers to be on the road with violent demonstrators – that is the difference! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and non-attached Members.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I also write the following to you in your parent book: They will not succeed in putting the Austrian xenophobics under control! [[Abg. May. Korun: Not the Austrians, we put that under you! Not the Austrians! You're lying! They say something wrong!]] The Austrians have a very long tradition of helping people in need. Whether it was the Hungarian uprising in 1956, whether it was the 1968 of the Prague Spring, whether it was the Bosnia-Herzegovina, we always helped. [[Abg. May. Korun: Do not take the people hostagely!]] In the Bosnia-Herzegovina crisis, we have even created the status of the refugee of war – only, at some point, a point has been reached where one has to say: Now it's all over with fun! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and non-attached Members.]] It was in the Bosnia-Herzegovina crisis when Austria offered protection and assistance to open-minded people, but only then, when 70,000 people have decided, no, they do not help with the reconstruction, but rather lie with us in the social hammock, since we have said no, as many Austrians have said no. [[Abg. May. Korun: This is what Mr Steinhauser said!]] [[Abg. May. Korun: Do not take the Austrians as hostages!]] That is the real reason we have to discuss. So much to you – you're not worth more time either. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and non-attached Members.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we today fail to trust the Minister of the Interior not only because of the Eberau story, but it is a long chain of observations and perceptions that has led us to do so. It started at the beginning of the term of office of the Mrs Minister. I have a comparison with other ministers who, for example, have contacted the interlocutors of all political groups, simply in the informal area, to see where there are political cuts, where one can talk together – one can never rule out that the political dissident has good ideas – and where one can try together to achieve something good for the people. This has not happened on the part of Mrs Fekter. She then invited two days before a committee to the interior resort. There has been a filter coffee of the resort, a few officials are daily eating, and one has decreed from above what is to be kept in the committee two days later. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I haven't gone there for a long time!]] We didn't go there! We are negotiating here in Parliament, because we are still the legislation and not you, Mrs Minister. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and non-attached Members.]] Then there was another mosaic of the renunciation of confidence in the Parliamentary Committee on the Interior, where we discussed the explosion-like increase in crime and the Minister spoke out loud and also submitted the explanation why crime in Austria is so high. - I admit it, I'm guilty of it. The Minister for the Interior said: The vilimsky is responsible for this because it asks so many questions that I don't get to fight crime! This, of course, has caused big laughter, and even MP Pilz has spoken Polish. However, Mrs. Dr. Fekter has subsequently re-evaluated myself for my policy of questions, because the State Protection Authorities – the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism – have not only been behind me, but also two other mandates from this House, and until today it has not been worth the effort to inform these mandates. I wonder what there is a state protection for which there is a BAT, if not to protect the national councils individually. Then there's a top-ranking state guard who says he's only there to protect the National Council as a whole, but the individual's been shot at him. I say quite frankly to you, such a chief authority representative, such a minister is not a minister who deserves the trust of this House. I have a bit of an impression – even in the light of your public statements – that you are talking about “the hypocrites that fall over us from the East”, so on the one hand, you are talking about the problem of immigration and crime in this context in a very similar language. On the other hand, you make a policy that is completely different. That reminds me a little of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. It is similar with the Pröll uncle in Lower Austria. Before the election, he meant that these mosques were strange buildings that do not belong to Lower Austria, and then he stamped the building notice. This is the policy of dualism, which we reject and which manifests itself in your place of business! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister, every hour 1,1 crimes are committed in Austria. Since you are in office, crime in Austria has been as high as ever before. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] The problem of asylum has also been remedied. There we can no longer look away and have to pack the problem at the root. The problem is not that Austria does not also favour those people who would need protection. The problem is that Austria is in the sight of an international asylum mafia. Here people are lured and brought here, here they slide into crime and that's why people are afraid. They are afraid in Styria, in Carinthia, in Traiskirchen, wherever these camps arise, because there are not the people who say to the Austrians: Thank you for protecting us. There are people who are involved in drug trafficking who are arrested in crime and so on. That's the problem. Look at the black Africans, for example! They're poor people. But they are lured here via tow bands, for which they are assembled in their home villages to finance with the money the strongest of a village, so that he comes to the West, so that he can earn his money there somewhere in a criminal organization in the drug sales et cetera. Look at the Western Union transfer points, which will be transferred back to Africa! When I discussed whether the African countries could properly reduce their development aid, there was a representative of the deacony who said something surprising to me. He said: Look, it would have no effect at all to reduce or put on zero development aid, because the transfer incomes of these black African countries from drug trafficking are already so high that they could give up development aid. – This is the policy we need to put forward a bar. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, you do not propose this policy by setting up a third centre for first-time admission, because Austria will continue to remain an asylum paradise. In a year we will then discuss where you will be your fourth and in two years, where you want to accommodate your fifth first recording center. Not we, not my requests, but Eurostat says that in Austria – while an average of 28 percent is decided positively in the EU – 61.6 percent of all applications will be positive. This is precisely the problem that in the Eastern European countries, outside the EU borders, specific applications for asylum fraud are being made to come to us to work as a criminal. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] That is exactly why the Austrians will be opposed, but will always be open and give protection to those people who need it, but not to those who are not to be rejected, who do not need it and only want to steal and cheat us.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25721	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25742	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try, in my speech, not to mix asylum and crime, but to speak only on one thing, namely to Eberau. I am convinced that the approach to the establishment of this first reception centre in the municipality of Eberau in Burgenland was not just a questionable one, not to say a bit questionable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: “A little”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Very!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A little bit is criticizing her! Little!]] Such a sensitive decision is only possible through optimal preparation, involvement of the citizens concerned and the national politicians. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. In the federalist state formation, Austria can only make a successful policy if one acts in accordance with the principle of solidarity. That means that all the federal states are required to exercise this solidarity as well. That is why I see it as the first important step – that is what some of the daily newspapers have quoted today – that it is important that Traiskirchen be relieved. Ladies and gentlemen! Traiskirchen has done excellent work in recent decades in relation to asylum seekers. Austria has a very humanitarian tradition in the field of asylum and has always fulfilled its commitments to the other European countries at a very high level and on a very high social standard. It is important to continue this tradition, and it can in no way be that human rights are only somehow called into question. By the introduction of the asylum court, which has its work with 1. Since July 2008, asylum procedures have been significantly reduced. It is also a right of asylum seekers to learn as soon as possible whether they have a right to asylum or whether they have to leave the country again. At the same time, the asylum court has also taken over the huge burden of old cases, half of which it has already handled and wants to reduce the rest as quickly as possible. In parallel, the current new procedures have been significantly reduced in their duration. 50 percent of asylum procedures – both in first and second instance – will be completed within one year. For Dublin decisions, the procedure is two weeks. It is very likely for the staff to thank the judges of the Asylum Court that they have made a significant contribution to reducing the duration of the proceedings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are currently two first recording centres in Austria: Thalham and Traiskirchen. Whether there should be a third large or several small ones in the future, this will prove the figures we need over a longer period of time to be able to assess whether this is necessary or not. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: This is the government programme!]] The current debate, however, makes it difficult to discuss it. Initial reception centres are generally available for the first time to carry out the authorisation procedures for the asylum procedure. In my opinion, this authorisation procedure can almost no longer be shortened without breaching the principles of the rule of law. They currently last about 37.6 days on average. Therefore, a discharge of these first-supply centres could also take place in such a way that only the first, the intensive phase is used. Now to a few numbers, because numbering games are always the right things to speak to my previous speakers. In 2009, 15 827 asylum applications were submitted. 4 600 of them were Dublin cases and other states were responsible. In the allocation procedures, there were 6 000 renouncing decisions and only 7 000 applications were accepted. So no trace of your 61 percent. [[Abg. Wheeler: 1 300!]] The remaining procedures, which are still missing in the sum, have been discontinued, but of course there are many people who are hiding. It is not possible to hide that, with accurate analysis, there are, of course, flaws in execution. Due to the internal situation of Austria, asylum seekers often come into the country through organized towing. In this case, it is necessary to deal specifically with the tow straps. We must say quite honestly that increased police cooperation at European level can be the step in the right direction here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day an appeal! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] Everything needs to be done to find a normalization of the situation. All of us – politics, but also the media – are required here to return to a de-escalation and an objective debate, in the sense of human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25862	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. 4 minutes speaking time; the rest of the speaking time of the group is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e25883	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Madam Minister of the Interior and other members of the Federal Government! Mr Strache has today put a urgent question to the Minister of the Interior, but then he has come to the thousandth of the hundredsth and has actually only strangled the topic of asylum centre in Oberau. [[Abg. Grosz: To the millionth!]] [[Call the BZÖ:Eberau!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Eberau, not Oberau!]] However, this gives us the opportunity today to follow very well the remarks of the Minister for the Interior. We know exactly what the Minister for the Interior for the Republic and the security of this Republic are doing. It is also important to say once again today how well our Minister of the Interior is doing her work, how well the population has been taken up and how she is ensuring security in our country. I would like to thank her very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Reluctant applause!]] Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, is also obliged to attend national Council meetings and not just go out to the population, because we are all doing so. Nevertheless, we are also obliged to attend such meetings. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You're never on the street in Simmering!]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: We are a total of more!]] If someone as a questioner on a urgent request that he submits is on it, then he should also devote himself to the debate all the time, otherwise one might think that he does not take this issue seriously at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any event, I note the following in your speeches: If it is a responsibility in this country when it comes to government, who is willing to assume responsibility for delicate things? And asylum policy is delicate. We know that. This is what we have noticed today in the various debates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] – You don’t need to point out that your party is not ready for a government responsibility at all. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Oja!]] They are also not prepared to address topics that are important in Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In the opposition, it's easy to scream when you say: An asylum centre is actually not necessary, we send them all back again. – You know, in reality it is not! We need a certain period of time to determine whether someone seeking asylum deserves asylum and actually needs it. In contrast to you, we are baffling about the FPÖ – one must say quite clearly – immigration and asylum at all. We know exactly what this means and what the other means, and that if someone needs asylum, if he is persecuted – for ethnic, racist or political reasons – this asylum also gets with us. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And with you, I'm not quite sure if you know what it means when someone is persecuted that he really needs asylum. We also need opportunities and places where we can look after these people in the time when we find out whether they need asylum or not. You don't need to lock up at all! It is completely different for the Greens, because the Greens believe that there is no need to fear at all, all the people who come in are automatically intended for asylum, it is all open to them. – Yes, that is not the case, Mrs Korun! One thing you also have to say: One also has a duty of presence during a cure. Even there you can't leave the spa for three weeks and nobody – but nobody! – talks about incarcerating, but it is only about the people feeling that the asylum seekers are also really well-abated and do not go around the community and they do not have to fear. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Glamischnig-Piesczek and Mag. Korun.]] A final sentence, Mrs Korun! It is all the time being said that we have two first-time recording centres and we do not need a third. – Are the people of Lower Austria second-class people? Are the people in Traiskirchen people second class? [[Abg. May. Korun: For a year and a half...!]] They don't care, but you don't want to build any first recording centres anywhere else?- Oh, my God! I don't understand. [[New call of the abg. May. Korun.]] That's why we take responsibility. And we will express our confidence to the Minister of the Interior today, because security is in very good hands with her.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26059	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time is set; The Group's remaining speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We hope that the Minister for the Interior will again take part in the debate, because it is ultimately about her place of business and also about the question of whether her distrust is expressed. But I think she can be given some last tips. She should listen here, because we as representatives of the people could also give her advice. We were actually expecting a lot of her, because she was a very consistent Member and a security spokesperson. We are now missing this consequence from her as a minister. But in one she was right, ladies and gentlemen, when she said: The tractors are well organized and know exactly where to take the refugees, namely to the refugee camps. Well, if we know that these tractor organizations are well organized, then it would be the first thing to clearly signal that we will all use barriers to show that we cannot easily bring illegal immigrants here to Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Minister, it would be the first to secure the borders and not do an alibi action together with the Minister of Defense to abuse soldiers to walk to keep their eyes open, watch, and report suspects. Together with the executive, one should set up a really efficient border guard force, which there is flexible, also unannounced, border controls and can temporarily lock the green border to set up priority actions to signal: Austria is not an open country, it is under review here, and everyone who is being picked up will be relocated immediately. That would be a first important measure. Don't do any alibi actions! Secondly, we should consistently implement asylum law. Mr Cap has said that we should not all be criminalized. – Ladies and gentlemen, 80 percent are not recognised as refugees. That is, abuse is in the majority of cases on the agenda. If you consistently implement the Dublin agreement, you can only legally apply for asylum in Austria at Schwechat Airport. This should be implemented consistently once and not think about setting up three, four, or five other reception centres. I have heard that even Germans such as Lienz, where this is under discussion, want to get back to this, although the Minister of Defence has always meant that he can finance his military reform. Mrs. Federal Minister, we've given you advance ladyberries. We expect from you – and have expected this from you – a consistent implementation of the security interests of the Austrians: Ensuring borders, borders The Commission will be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the measures are implemented in accordance with the principles set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union This – and only that – also requires the population of you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26165	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. Fixed speaking time, at the same time maximum speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26186	Mr President. High house! Mrs Innenminister, I have observed how you have read very intensively the tomorrow edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”. I hope you have also seen page 23 where, under the heading “We are a paradise for asylum seekers”, you can read the following: namely, the People’s Aid and the Chamber of Workers have published an investigation in which a comparison of the material situation between asylum seekers and the unemployed in Austria is made. This survey was based on the model case of a family with three minor children. It was amazing, Mrs. Inner Minister. The family of asylum seekers may, using all the support claims, obtain a total of €13 150 per year from Austrian taxpayers. The Austrian unemployed receives €12 400 a year for himself and his family, thus significantly less. In addition, the family of asylum seekers can finance the cost of rent, electricity, gas, heating, television fees and hygiene products by the state. The Austrian unemployed cannot. And that, Madam Minister of the Interior, you should actually think that the Austrians, especially those who have lost their jobs, are being worse treated by this Federal Government, have to suffer disadvantages to the asylum seekers who emigrate to our country. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] This is an invitation that this Federal Government will issue to all asylum seekers. That is why we are world champions with the asylum seekers. The figures have already been mentioned: In Austria, an asylumant has already reached 270 inhabitants. In Germany, there are 1,700, and in the classical immigration country, the United States, there are 13,700 inhabitants, on which an asylumist comes. This very invitation ticket of your missing asylum policy is also what the Austrians do not understand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Innenminister, you rightly no longer deserve the trust of the Austrians, but also of the parliamentarians in this House. That is why we will support the request for distrust brought against you in Carinthia, because you have a security emergency in Austria to answer! Read your own criminal statistics: Daily burglaries, daily violent crimes, and the staff emergency in the executive – this is precisely the invitation to criminals to come to Austria! You, Mrs Fekter, have a healing chaos to answer in the asylum question. The Zogaj case alone is an example of how you act. Just as you have acted in the case of Zogaj, who has extended for years and in which no more legal person in Austria knows, you have now also caused the same medical chaos in the question of the first recording center. In fact, they all have – everyone! – in front of the head: You have insecured the Austrians, especially in the federal states of Burgenland, the Styria and Carinthia, you have misinformed the public, you have deceived them, and you have, in fact, also Your coalition partner in the circle sent. That's why you don't deserve the trust anymore. I would also like to make a motion for a resolution because your plans are still being pursued, as you say: If we do not need the first reception centre, we may now be able to include the asylum seekers in federal institutions. We are bringing forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Strutz, Mr Linder and Mr Jury on the removal from the establishment of a first place in Carinthia [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] “The Federal Minister for the Interior is invited to take a distance from the establishment of another first place in Carinthia.” Mrs Bundesminister, finally take note that you have failed! They have failed in security policy, asylum policy, the fight against crime in Austria. Make the way for a new minister or minister who has the chance to make it better!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26267	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26338	Next speaker: Mr Linder. Time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26359	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Madam President Prammer, thank you very much for this call for order to Dr. Peter Pilz! This is, of course, a choice of words that I don't want to deal with at all. Maybe it's the same thing that I can't keep up with an academic as a simple little farmer. I just think I'm very different from you in the choice of words, and I don't want to comment on that at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To you, Mr. Gerald Grosz, because you spoke to the mayors – aha, he's already gone –: We mayors make a policy entirely without self-interest and out of conviction on the matter. [[Abg. Petzner: Electoral betrayal...!]] But I am convinced, dear Gerald, that you would meet many of your friends, who belong to all these little I-AGs, with these words much more. Mrs Bundesminister, on the topic of the first centre of asylum South: Already in the government statement, you have written willingly, in Carinthia, in the south, a reception center has to come – without raising numbers, without researching whether this is necessary and without checking! How uncertain you have been in this matter we have experienced: once for it, with power. Darabos next door; we need it, we don't need it. I think you put yourself at the door with this and noticed how uncertain you are in this matter. But when you noticed in Carinthia that we Freemans in Carinthia have created the Space Ordinance Act in such a way that it is not possible without us, without the citizens' consent, to build a first reception centre south, you have decided to go to Burgenland and build it in Burgenland. Mrs Bundesminister, when you said: Listen, you can learn something from me!, I listened and really heard a lot – only I don't want to learn that when you go here today and say that the south in the Burgenland was starved, you didn't give them any money, you didn't give up work, you stopped drilling for thermal water, and many, many more things. Mrs Minister, these are things that are not possible in Carinthia, because we from the government party in Carinthia no matter what region, which community, which group has the say there. Every part of Carinthia is worth a lot to us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially because we have this unity, you have also realized that you cannot land in Carinthia with your plans. That is why I ask you once again: Back from your goal to build a first-shot center in Carinthia! But you also have the goal of building one in Austria, and rather stop the use of asylum!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26411	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy Jury. Also 5 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26432	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We've heard a lot today: What does the population wish for? [[Abg. Pendl: We already heard a lot!]] Mr Otto Pendl, you are certainly no longer with the ear and with the nose to the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Degrading from 50 percent to 32 percent, I have to say: They're not in the population anymore! Mr Pendl, this is a witness of poverty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard today – MP Vilimsky has said that too – Austria has a great and high tradition of immigration, of refugee waves. After 1945, after 1956 and after 1968, Austria has performed enormous humanitarian services. The population of Austria has done a huge amount of humanitarian work! The same thing has arisen from these waves of refugees: These waves of refugees have come from the same culture and have been well integrated in Austria. On the other hand, what comes to Austria today: First, 80 percent of asylum seekers are criminal, and second, as a consequence, 50 percent of criminal acts in Austria are carried out by foreigners. That is a declaration of bankruptcy of our government's refugee policy and security policy! However, sluggish crime goes hand in hand – I have not heard this today – with a sluggish Islamization of Austria and Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish any of us that this famous drop, which makes the barrel overflow, will eventually become reality! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this policy is not intended to go to a secure future with the population in Austria. Mrs. Minister, we in Carinthia are proud to be the safest federal country, and, Mrs. Minister, we in Carinthia want to remain the safest federal country in the future. We therefore reject a first reception centre in our federal state, but also in the Styria and Burgenland, and express your distrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26500	The last speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 3 minutes remaining speaking time for the Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that after this second round of the “three Brothers Dalton” – three of the four Daltons – it is clear to everyone that a Rules of Procedure will be required out of the way because the smooth abuse of the Rules of Procedure is. [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and ÖVP]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They are actually part of the FPÖ Group. The request, as far as I know, is supported by the FPÖ, is signed, but it comes here with extra-tourist speaking times. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Please, it would still be acceptable if it were to be quite comprehensible – but well, one should count this in the future of the group, which does not make any better contributions either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, you're not meant to be another party. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! By the way, Mr Strutz – where is he, where?, ah, back there, yes, last row, back, behind the liberals! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] – : Please, let's get some advice. It is not good if you are talking about a better budgetary policy when you are talking about support payments, while you do not bring any order together in your own private budgets! So maybe it's a good idea if you go in there a little bit. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen; yes, where is he? - Go, have that hand! Yeah, there, there's one. My glasses are not enough, so far have they reset you – well! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But now to Eberau. – Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to make structural assistance dependent, Mr. Col. of the Austrian People’s Party, on a community going to the knees and accepting an asylum centre. This is not a kind of structural policy with a community. One cannot say that government policy is only reasonable if the Minister of State is allowed to break the law. It's not acceptable! Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, I prove to you that you broke the law. You have said in your answer to the question: It would not have been possible for the Burgenlander Raumordnungsgesetz to be dedicated to the Baumischgebiet in order to bring an asylum centre there. - That's wrong! § 17 of the Burgenlander Raumordnungsgesetz – old version, still in front of the novelle – clearly provides reserve areas, and these reserve areas are defined as follows – I quote it to you –: ‘In the area plan, to ensure the general interests of the population... (c) for the construction of public buildings and other site-related facilities, such as public houses, churches, schools etc. Area of reserve shall be indicated.’; Ladies and gentlemen, I prove this to you: If you read the rules on the construction area and the tree table area, there is only the satisfaction of the building wishes for the single-family building and for the commercial care companies – bakery et cetera – meant the local population, but not your asylum centre, ladies and gentlemen, High House! Mrs Fekter, in agreement with the mayor of the state government – and you can't blame the head of state Niessl – you have given false information, deceived the state government and the local population and broken the law! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] It's gonna be up to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26630	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26658	Mr President. We are faced with a naughty vote on the motion for a resolution against the Minister for the Interior. You also learned earlier that two Members of this House have announced that they do not wish to take part in this vote. [[Call the FPÖ: Unheard!]] This is a process that cannot be accepted. It has happened more often that mandates are not here when voting, but never has anyone announced it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Secondly, it is a nameable vote. I am therefore seeking to interrupt the session for a few minutes in order to give the rulers the opportunity to come into the hall. If they continue to refuse their work, I ask them to do so on the subject of the next presidential conference.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26707	I am not going to interrupt the session, because if someone gives his vote or not, we will not see it until the end of the vote – and not even before the vote. That is why we are continuing in the voting process. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior, as provided for in Article 74(l) of the Treaty. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only official votes can be used for the vote. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called on, in particular, to put the voting paper into the urn provided. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of Mrs Ing's motion for a reluctance. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of putting “No” vote in the mood. I now ask Mrs Schreiber, Member of the European Parliament. Lohfeyer to start with the name call. Mrs Hagenhofer will replace them later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26791	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now take the vote under the supervision of the Correspondents. Before I interrupt the session, I would like to expressly draw attention to the fact that we will then have to vote a distrust request again. So I'm trying to stay in the hall or at least close. The sitting will now be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e26832	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 69, No votes: 102. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The motion for a reluctance by Mrs Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). According to § 66 para. 8 The names of the Members will be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. (By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Dr. Martin Graf, the actual vote result is as follows: Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 69, No votes: 101 (+ 1 invalid. ) Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Fichtenbauer; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grastaur, Graf, Grosz Gerald, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, Jarmer, jury; Karlsböck, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Königshofer, Korun, Kunasek, Kurzmann; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Linder, List, Lugar Robert; Markowitz, Mayerhofer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber; Rosary; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Schwentner, Spadiut, Stadler Ewald, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; Tadler Erich, Themessl; Inland waterways; Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Weinzinger Lutz, Westenthaler, Widmann Rainer, Windbüchler-Souschill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Eßl; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Haubner Peter, Heinzl, Hell, Höfinger, Höller, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kapeller, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Clickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Matznetter, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Molterer, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plassnik, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prinz; Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, schitzenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schönpass Rosemarie, Schopf, Schultes, Schüssel, Silhavy, Singer, Sonnberger, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steindl Konrad, Steßl-Mühlbachbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger Hannes, Wittmann Peter, Wöinger, Worm.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27042	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Korun, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. Two of the cited constitutional provisions require the presence of half of the Members, I note them again. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the necessary amendments to the Asylum Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strutz, Mr Linder, Mr Jury, Mr President, on the removal from the establishment of a first place in Carinthia. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority and therefore rejected. [[18:36:49]] Short debate on the reply to the question 3168/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27118	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 3168/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Moser as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27155	Mr. State Secretary! Unfortunately, I have to say that the responsible Finance Minister and Vice-Chancellor has just left the room because it is now about a hard discussion. Unfortunately, I also had to realize that the former Chancellor Schüssel has just as quickly left the room, because what we are now discussing has happened in his era, at that time it happened in the era Black-Blue-Orange, so in this era, its 10th century. He'll be in the ORF tomorrow. He's leaving the room today. The events at that time, these era bowls/grassers urgently need a reprocessing. Ten years have passed, but in the process of reprocessing this era we are only at the first beginnings. I'm just calling a few keywords and then I'm going to get to the core of the topic. Point one: The era Grasser, the era Schüssel was a period in which private investors, private real estate dealers, drew massive benefits from the sale of republic assets. The era bowl/grass was a time for a flowering period of privatizations at sluggish prices. I only call the Austrian tobacco, I also call the state-owned housing companies. I can also point out that even in the industrial sector – the VA Tech tag – this valuable Austrian industrial company has been sold at really cheap conditions. This is the result of economic policy, which is also the result of tax and revenue policy. This policy of the former Minister of Finance Grasser was at the expense of the people in Austria. This still depends on us today, and that is something that should be reworked, especially the case of the sale of the BUWOG. You only need to open the newspapers, almost daily a facet of this unprocessed scandal appears again. Mr State Secretary, the answer to your question, which you will modestly or fairly and conscientiously return to me, leaves gaps open again, opens up new questions, gives no answers again – always just delaying, concealing, concealing, which is finally clarified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have already conducted the discussion in the context of a request for the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry. We have also discussed this in the form of a urgent request. There was already a consensus in this House, a consensus even called by Minister of Finance Vice Chancellor Pröll: We need transparency, we need information, we need to find out, we also need political consequences. - That's what it was. Mr Kopf, I can remember that you have also said that in principle you are not against a committee of inquiry. First of all, you should clarify the courts, you said after the debate on the urgent ones. You've never completely abated it. [[Abg. Head: I never do that at all!]] This urgent one at the time in the autumn of last year was also the occasion for my further written requests, because there was a lot left open again. So now we have the answers since the beginning of December. There was a lot left open again. That is why we are talking very specifically about the open points. You know, the Minister of Finance should finally provide information on what was going on in the Ministry of Finance, where the close bodies are, so that Meischberger could cash up high-level advisory fees and then transfer the real-estate finance to the CA Immo and write a million €. This has not yet been done. That is the answer. That's where he leaves Parliament in doubt. We must insist that tax resources are at last used reliably and efficiently and that the proceeds are to the extent necessary for the sale of republic property. Above all, we must also be aware that corruption will be fought decisively. This is very concrete about combating corruption. I would like to say one more word: Why are Lehman Brothers assigned to the engagement? - We know. Ramprecht said: Two minutes before the start of the Commission meeting, Plach came and said: Lehman needs to be. We know Lehman has relations with a friend of the former Minister of Finance Grasser, to Muhr. That's a connection. Lehman cashes almost €10 million of Austrian tax money for an advisory service, for a resolution, which ultimately involved corruption. Second point: Quite simply, we have different offers, a total of 30. It is reduced to two in June 2004, and it opens at once the last offer, and there are uncertainties. The question, which the Minister also answered me, then says: Because there was an additional offer in early June, one had to push it out to a next opening round, to a Last and Final Offer. During this period, Meischberger and the informants were most likely acting to finance the real estate, because the real estate finance has paid a generous fee of almost €10 million to get the prize for this lucrative property offer and for this real estate portfolio, so to speak, with only one million €. Mr Pröll constantly refuses the information. He used to say, He was not Minister of Finance at the time. – You all know, Mr Pröll has been sitting in the Council of Ministers since 2003. At that time he said: The ministry doesn't know anything. – I cannot assume that a Ministry of Finance has a collective memory loss and is unable to provide concrete answers to specific questions. But take a look at it yourself. The Minister replied: On Question 2: This is because of the knowledge of the Federal Ministry; on question 3: The section has no information on these questions; on question 4 detto, on question 5 as well, on question 6. No explanation, no answer. The lid of silence is spread over it, the collective memory loss turns and reigns, and the Minister leaves everything to the prosecutors and to the courts. We know – and this is also such a point in this scandalous affair – that the prosecutors determine only since the financial crisis and since the immo finance has come into the wildest turbulence and criminal aspects were most likely involved in the game. Only at that time did a self-advertisement by Meischberger and Hochegger become due because they did not tax fees, which the Immofinanz also paid them for this BUWOG deal. Since January last year, the prosecutor's office has been established for a year. When were the house searches? - Now, last week. A new facet will come into play again, not only what we already knew – Plech et cetera or Meischberger and so on – no, it will now also be an additional real estate management or a certain real estate affair of the financial resort subject of the investigation. The accommodation of financial institutions or financial services in the capital Linz is now also the subject of the investigation. Here, too, Grasser's friends, Grasser's Strizzis and more or less acquired rental payments at the expense of the Republic more or less by making a building available, which had to move into finance and was no longer hired at the BIG, no longer the rental payments run into a state-owned company, no, the rental payments have to go into foreign pockets. That was the system grasser, and with this system grasser now belongs finally wiped up, and the system belongs finally adjusted. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] They contribute zero and nothing to it on the government bank, in the financial sector, as vice chancellors, as ÖVPs. On the contrary, you continue to help hide, you continue to help hide, you do not give the necessary transparency and make it extremely difficult for Parliament to finally establish something like a political culture in Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Since Max Weber says: “Politics are stubborn drilling thick boards.” – They're wide thick boards in front of this affair of grass, in front of all this scandalous story of Grasser. It can only be provided by persistent drilling in the form of repeated inquiries, repeated discussions and plenary debates for information. That's why I have to do this, and that's why you have to sit longer today. I'll give you that. If you had answered properly, today we would have at least three-quarters of an hour earlier call. But unfortunately we have some sort of collective responsibility. I would just like to say this to the ÖVP or SPÖ Members, no, we would rather only say to the then responsible political groups that these were the Blues, the Oranges and the Blacks. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They should actually be sitting alone today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27228	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27251	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say that, as Mr Moser rightly pointed out, neither the Minister for Finance nor I had anything to do with these calls for proposals nor the actual sale at the time, because we were active in other functions. Second point: Many of your questions, which you have addressed to the Minister of Finance, were purely speculative. If such questions are of a speculative nature, they cannot be answered either, especially since many of these questions are already the subject of investigations by the judicial administration. We must be patient together and wait for these results. We cannot presuppose these results. The sale took place transparently and in an open procedure. I can remind you of the chronology. In December 2000, companies were required to prepare a sale of the apartments to the tenants. Although the offers to the tenants were actually very favourable, the demand of the tenants remained far behind expectations. Therefore, another way of privatising the federal housing companies, as envisaged by the government programme, was taken. ==References====External links==* Official website In July 2003, it was authorised to sell or reuse the shares in the federal housing companies in a different way. At that time, this portfolio included 62,262 housing units and 433 commercial properties with more than 23 000 parking spaces. The focus was on Vienna, Upper Austria and Carinthia. At the same time, properties were in best locations, but also those that had a very bad situation, so they were almost inconvenient. This portfolio has then been advertised throughout Europe. Binding offers have been made in the form of notarial acts and on the basis of the uniform purchase contract, in concrete terms by three bidders, on 4. ==References== The two qualified bidders were then invited to legitimise additional offers, Last and Final Offers. The invitation to tender was made on 4 May. ==References====External links== ==References== It is very important to always mention the date here. ==References== In June 2004, the Federal State of Carinthia refused to exercise the right of pre-purchasing. And here, too, it is quite clear to say – because conjectures are constantly placed in the room –: In the case of the country of Carinthia, the Ministry of Finance was concerned only with contacting Carinthia in the context of the fact that the Carinthia had to know the best offer for the ESG-Villach, because that was the basis for the decision for the country of Carinthia, whether the pre-purchasing right for the ESG-Villach is used at the same conditions. The best bidder was identified by the external evaluation committee – that was privatisation specialists and procurement rights experts. It is also important to stress that you, Mrs Moser, are constantly being questioned that this proposal for a second round of offers was absolutely necessary. To that end, we need to know that such calls for tenders are not subject to the Federal Procurement Act, but must be transparent and comprehensible in accordance with EU law. In the accompanying letter from the Federal Ministry of Finance to the bidders for the issue of binding tenders, the Passus was that it was reserved for the Federal Ministry of Finance to carry out a further bidder round in the case of non-proprietary tenders. So that was all known. In concrete terms, an additional offer was made by a bidder, which provided for increases in the purchase price under certain conditions. There was no comparability of the offers made, because this additional offer could not be estimated. On the other hand, a purchase price reduction of €60 million was launched for the interest rate change risk during the one month period, which could not be accepted, as this would of course have been at the expense of the sales income and thus of the taxpayer. The contract period was therefore shortened to 14 or 8 days in a second round of offers. Here, too, the abandonment of the law of the covenant, which in reality was not a renunciation, but a negotiated improvement of the covenant, is bemoaned. To this end, I should like to say that, in the case of the sale of dwellings, the absence of the federal government has already been fixed in the contract of purchase prior to the sale of the purchase offers. ==References====External links== October 2004 – The date you have in your request, 23. October, it wasn't right, it was the 5th. October 2004 – for reasons of time no detailed arrangements for the handling of the rights of designation and the procedure for the sale of dwellings could be concluded, has just been included in this Protocol, a temporary temporary regime that has suspended each sale of dwellings for this transitional period. However, this standstill agreement only had validity until a final arrangement had been concluded, but not later than until 30. ==References== It is therefore missing to derive from this temporary abandonment of the sale of dwellings, that the federal government wanted to be granted an advantage to the purchasers only after the purchase contract had been concluded, and only then would have released the sale of these apartments, which are still subject to the right of designation. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that the procedure is very comprehensible here and is also transparently presented on the part of our House. However, the crucial question, which is always put into space, is a question that the courts have to answer: whether criminally relevant errors have occurred in connection with the privatisation procedure. But this question cannot be answered to you by the Minister of Finance, but this question has courts to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27322	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Herzegovina. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27346	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take a look back into the past. In November 2003, the SPÖ already criticized the dual and multiple functions of Mr Ernst Karl Plech – at the BUWOG, at the BIG in the Supervisory Board, at the award commission, as a broker himself. What did the FPÖ mean then? – Mr Detlev Neudeck, a liberal Member, stood behind Plach and said: The accusations are part of the hunting opposition on Grasser and – now it comes – the experts active in his environment. There is now sufficient information about the experts working in the area of Grasser. But what's almost got me more busy now is almost a Déjà-vu experience. Mr State Secretary, it seems to me that you are still celebrating this BUWOG scandal as a successful privatisation. What does “transparent” mean here, as you have formulated it? - That's a pushed game. That's a long time ago, that's all at the prosecutor's office. This answer to the question would have been good if the ÖVP were to find clear words in a Preamble. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The FPÖ in the present is naturally caught up in the past. It is none other than Mr. Strache, who at the time, as a member of the Vienna FPÖ Landes Party, was significantly responsible for the fact that Mr. Plech was put in place in the banking sector, in the media sector, in the real estate sector. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – You don’t need to get upset, we just need to be on the persil for Mr. Scheuch, and so the circle finally closes with the Hypo Alpe Adria. Finally, there are house searches, consents and so on, it has taken a long time. Let me tell you something, ladies and gentlemen, about the FPÖ: From the countries in which municipal elections take place in March, there are numerous reports that many people say: I am not going to run for this FPÖ, I do not want to have anything to do with them. You know why? – Because, of course, everyone asks the fearsome question: What else is going on at the BUWOG and at the hypo? Therefore, Mr Strache should not leave immediately when it comes to a subject that concerns him himself, but here in the House he is most likely to take part in the discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] At the time, the SPÖ has also strongly criticised the fact that Mr. Plech – even though this is to be disputed by a lawyer here today – was in the award commission when it came to the consultative fee of 10.2 million € for Lehman, who was invading the Grasser-Friend Muhr. These were the ones you call “active experts in the area of Grasser”, Muhr, Plech, Meischberger, Hochegger. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you should scatter here whole tons of ashes from your head. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The damage to the Republic, Secretary of State Lopatka, that should also interest you as the Secretary of State, is enormous. What does the Court of Auditors say in its report in 2007? – The fact that the federal government has not benefited from all the potential for raising the proceeds and has given up at least €200 million. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is really the weakest State Secretary the ÖVP has ever had!]] Let us take away the fine words and the formulation of the Court of Auditors! The clear text is: Shrouded, scrambled, served "friend" parties and used "friend" in important state functions – that was the system Grasser and the FPÖ. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I already did in November 2003 – you have to imagine that! – the Procuratorate asks the BUWOG and the Plech to accept. In January 2010 there will finally be house searches. So the mills of justice are very slow, but the positive is, they're grinding. How do you look in the near future with BUWOG and Hypo Alpe Adria? – I believe, Secretary of State, that soon the handcuffs will click! That is why I still can't believe that you spoke about transparency in your statements earlier on. It is a question of illuminating the political system behind it. What about the dependencies, with the “friendly economy”, with the willing bank in Carinthia, with the consulting companies, with the agencies? There must be conclusions and consequences, and in the end reforms must be implemented as regards control and the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27409	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Sonnberger. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27430	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, on the comments made by my colleague Herb: I think the Secretary of State has answered perfectly correctly the questions he has been asked. The accusations that you have put in the room here, Mr. Herb, will have to be clarified very well. I have great confidence in the judicial system that at the end of the day it will come out, which really was. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... also have to say!]] Mr Herb, trust these institutions too! Why has it been privatized? – The state is not a good entrepreneur, and housing and housing are certainly not the core business of a modern state. Therefore, one can say that there was simply no longer the need for state housing. As an ÖVP, however, we are clearly committed to housing financing, to housing, to housing banks, to building savings, to mortgage protection. In contrast to many other countries, there has been no real estate bubble. With us everything is in the lot, because a proper, socially supported foundation ensures the housing in Austria. We are well advised that we will continue to handle this in the future. Five federal housing companies were privatized: the BUWOG, the WAG, the ESG, the EBS and the WBG. It was 62 265 apartments with 4.39 million square meters and 5.13 million square meters of unbuilt land. ==References====External links== The agreement was approved on 4 April 2004. It was a very professional and transparent procedure, namely a public international call for proposals, which cannot be disputed here in this House. The EU’s rules on aid have also been taken into account. A professional settlement with the help of internationally renowned consultants has taken place. I just want to tell you the names of the consultants in the expert committee: Dipl.-Ing. Rainer Wieltsch, Dr. Peter Michaelis, Head of Section Dr. Gerhard Steger, Dr. Rudolf Lessiak, Univ.-Prof. Dr. Aicher, Dr. Josef Mantler, Ministerate Dr. Heinrich Traumüller, diploma sociologist Michael Svoboda. So, really, really, really trusted people have been involved. There has been extensive information and control by the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... informed?]] The Council of Ministers was informed six times. There were 26 parliamentary questions and ten debates in Parliament, and five times this matter was dealt with in the Parliamentary Court of Auditors Committee. The Court of Auditors' control of the award of the selection of advisers has also taken place. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But there is still no...! No consequences!]] The tenants – which may be a bit of a advertising drop – have had the option of acquiring property, we wanted to create property, but only 5 percent of the BUWOG – about 1,000 people – and one percent of the WAG – used the offer – about 200 people. Why? – Because it was precisely because the rents between €2.13 and €2.54 per square meter were relatively small and it was therefore not particularly attractive to eventually acquire property. Of course, if you had gone more towards yield values, you might have sold more apartments. One time housing law, always housing law of public utility. I believe that this sentence is also important because these social apartments always remain social apartments. The sale of shares has no effect on the existing rental conditions. The new owner cannot intervene in any way in existing rental conditions. The rental price formation of the WGG also remains fully effective for owners and tenants. Sales revenue of €2.45 billion was discussed. These were the sales price of € 961 million, € 55 million selling price of the WBG and the acquisition of debt of € 1.43 billion. Look at Berlin as a comparison! It was always said that these apartments were ruined and given here. 66 490 apartments were sold by the Berlin city government. This was a sales price of €405 million at a transaction value of €2.1 billion, with €1.7 billion in liabilities taken over. On this alone one can already see that sales revenue for the Republic of Austria was actually in order. The other accusations, as I believe, will clarify the courts, Mr. Col. Herb. You don't need to be scared. And then you'll see how this continues to develop.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27499	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27521	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary, nothing against you, quite the contrary, but to your At present, we see how "important" the Minister of Finance is on this issue! I can remember – my colleague Herbs spoke of Déjà-vu before, and one really has the impression of a Déjà-vu experience when one comes to the 21st century. October 2009 thinks that when we held the same debate here. Mr Kogler of the Greens, who praised him for presenting himself to this debate, said: “Yes, I’m always here when it comes to urgent questions or other questions of Parliament” and so on “that’s why it’s also a matter of course” that I am “here”. Mr State Secretary, obviously this is not a matter of course! But back to the topic of Déjà-vu. It's really very interesting when you get the urgent question from colleague Moser of 21. October 2009 and Mr Finanzminister's answers to the 30 questions. Gabi, you mentioned this very briefly before. I would like to remind you of these answers a little more: He was not involved in any way at any time – well, we know that anyway. It loses absolute knowledge of it. He assumes he's been tested. He can only refer to Answer 1. He cannot provide any relevant information. And: “As already on Question 1” – I don’t know anything! – “I was in another position during this period. So I can’t make any statement either.” – That’s it at the time. So, Gabi Moser – which is not very original – has now shortened the 30 questions to eight, but has asked the same questions again. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Because he didn't answer her!]] And now he answers these eight same questions again by saying to Question 1: “In this respect I refer to my answer to the question 1 of urgent question 3357/J” – I know nothing, I was not present. On questions 2a and 2b he says the same, even when answering questions 3 to 8, the answer to the urgent question is referred to, and so on and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: He's always in the circle!]] He rotates in the circle, he answers nothing at all – completely right, so it is. ==References====External links== October the previous year is that the prosecutor's office has now become active. Grasser finally agreed last Thursday: 15 House searches, 15 BUWOG-Razzien has existed, twelve in Vienna, Lower Austria, Vorarlberg, three in Liechtenstein and so on. At Plech there have been house searches and also – this is new – a new topic – at the company PORR, because there are now some inconsistencies about the rental contract of the financial country management in the establishment of the Terminal Tower at Linz Train Station. And the award for the implementation of Lehman Brothers has also become a topic. Mrs Ewing has already said it: The Minister wants it to be Lehman, according to Mr Ramprecht, said before the award meeting Mr Plech. It would be really high at the time that we finally find out how much the damage to the taxpayer really is. The court has, if there has really been fraud, to bring those involved behind the castle and bars. And personally I am delighted that Schüssels' favorite teflon minister Grasser is now at last really the subject of investigations. It's high time! And I remember that he was on an ÖVP ticket from 2003. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This whole bowl-grasser system was also the right feeding ground for a scandal of this order. So, Mr State Secretary, the Minister of Finance would have had the opportunity to bring light into this bowl-grasser system! This opportunity has already been missed by the Ministry of Finance for the time being. In your environment, the same people as in those days are still there! What does Hans-Georg Kramer, the former chief of the cabinet of Mr. Grasser, the former head of the cabinet of Mr. Molterer and the current Secretary-General, equal to the head of section, in the Ministry of Finance? People are still there, and you still don't answer anything. That's definitely clear. In the meantime, ex-recognition court President Fiedler has already spoken in favour of information. And to Mr. Col. Herb and his allegations towards FPÖ: To link the FPÖ and the HC strache with this felt – which is also the most politically unnecessarily needed – is pure campaign. The SPÖ has still been responsible for the major scandals in this Republic – I only say “consumer”, AKH and BAWAG. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27603	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27636	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The details are relatively complicated. But this must not necessarily lead to the passing of stringtracks on the questions. However, it might be very useful if we recall individual fragments or mosaic stones again to see a little bit of the painting that is there as a moral image of black and blue. Look at this. Please wait! Lehman, more. Congratulations! Mr Muhr, friends of Grasser; all of them have mixed together in this system! Cascading errors have happened. I do not understand at all why the Ministry of Finance comes to present that later on along certain dates, as if it had not gone otherwise. The question was not the sequence of dates at all. The question is: Who knew when? Who's got where intervened? Who has sent information to whom inadvertently? We'll get into the field of corruption and crime very slowly. These are the questions – and not the calendar of dates. Don't be mad at me! Now we have these wonderful figures everywhere. This is the system that has affected. This is the black and blue system we are still working on today. Thank God there are now a few prosecutors who are going to at least, though very delayed – to this will still be addressed. But big modo can be said... I mean, let's talk to Mr. Grasser's mandatory defender or to his lawyer, who said: Not everywhere Grasser stands on it is already a scandal in it! - After congratulations. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Skilled formulation!]] If that's already formulated by his own lawyer in such a way that it's not yet a scandal, where he's involved, then it looks pretty funny anyway, I think. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It also fits in with the fact that every time a house search happens somewhere because of something, the press headlines: Home search at PORR – not yet at Grasser. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Tomorrow we'll have a house search at Hypo, not at Grasser. – It's really a shame! Or: Home search at Eurofighter, not at Grasser. - It's also wrong. Home search in things Homepage would also have been necessary, but this is probably history. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Why? Why is that so?]] That's where the black and blue "Self-whitewash system" hit. Nowhere else would this Minister of Finance have survived, which can be used by industry, which does not pay taxes, and subsequently, as Minister of Finance and its Secretary of State, then Finz, has influence on the procedure where it comes from: Everyone's paying taxes, just me, KHG, not me. That's your moral habit! You can now paint this a little bit, and with the distance and grace of the past time, all this may be a bit yellowish. However, it is still there enough; and for the rule of law it will be good if we pursue these things. It is precisely this rule of law that needs to be strengthened now when it comes to the fight against corruption. That's where the problem is. What did we see with the prosecutors? – It’s pretty slow, it’s a public issue: too few prosecutors specifically in the fight against economic crime, too little well-trained. In part, there were also relics that have acted party-politically. This is the condition, and it is now important to fight it. There's a little bit of a positive shimmer on the horizon, but now we really have to "press". If it, the government, wants to be credible, then it has to be invested with good, independent people. We get three scandals every day, and we haven't even finished the first one. That's how it looks when we look at the last months. But these are still the reflections of this era. If the supporter of the Karl-Heinz Grasser has already called him “moral flat-wurzler”, then you have taken over it, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to top this flat-wrencher into your black pots and to make it thrive there as well. Now that all this is going to be a little bit, you're putting off your almost paternal gardenership here. That's not the way it is at all! If you are not willing to look everywhere now, that is clearly explained, then of course we will keep this for you for a long time. Unfortunately, this doesn't just stay with the BUWOG, but there are other stories to be added again and again. Finally, this unfortunately fits into a tragic finding: Austria slips – even if you do not want to hear it; the Minister of Justice is there, that is a good one! – in all rankings in the international context, where things like anti-corruption or anti-corruption or similar stories such as money laundering status are increasingly going back. This is also the legacy of black and blue. It is again time for a trend change to bring the ethical-political moral image back to the forerman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] We will help you with this. That's where you can take poison on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27719	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27741	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! The debate on the BUWOG is one that is quite different here in the House. I can remind you that the former ÖVP Finance Minister, Grasser, spoke of a "very good business". – What is safe: It was a good business. The question is: For whom? If you say that there is a good business for the Republic, I think there is hardly anyone who can carry it right now, except a few in the ÖVP, who are pressing themselves in front of the objective Court of Auditors report, ahead of reality. The whole issue, which has now become the subject and made this issue, was the inflated 9.61-million-€ payment to Meischberger and Hochegger – of course beyond the financial framework. And unexplained for everyone is: What information is worth € 9.61 million? Mr State Secretary, if you here, as some months ago, are doing a reading of answers that are not actually answers, then I must say, you are not asked ad personam or the Minister of Finance, what happened during your term of office, but it is your place of business. And in this situation, at €9.61 million in commission payments that were transferred as black money, you are actually responsible for your civil service, which worked at this commission of awards, to exercise full transparency. What you're doing now is actually the opposite. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have said that the courts are supposed to decide, the criminal authorities. Well: A self-advertisement introduced in accordance with § 29 of the Financial Penal Code may result if it includes everything that does not happen under financial law, that this has a Penalty-Free effect. But this has not been done for a long time, because the political responsibility is imperative to question: What was the triggering moment when such a payment came? Who has known when what basis of decision? What did someone know? And: Who intervened in the event? If a high-level staff member of the department, Mr Ramprecht, is clear here, I think there is no longer any doubt that everything and everyone must be done here in order to clarify these accusations objectively. If house searches take up a period of seven years until they are carried out, this is also not exactly a good business card for justice – but better, though by year too late, than not at all. All that is in the room here is for you to exercise full transparency in the Ministry of Finance. Again: The discussion of this request is perfectly justified, because what you have delivered here is almost a protection function for grass and co, which is anything but appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to transfer this BUWOG scandal to anything else now, but it is – and I myself have worked in a fraud unit for many years – almost obvious that other things must also be examined wherever those actors were active. That is why I say to you: Give up the fight! Political responsibility must be questioned. There will also be an investigation committee. Even if you delay it for months, it will come, and you are very well advised to meet your obligation now rather than too late and to ensure that the taxpayer finally learns what actually happened at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27808	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[19:22:18]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27829	We take the negotiations on the 3rd. Agenda item again. Mr Kurzmann came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27854	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party shall support this request. It is not long ago that children have also been exploited in Europe. We only need to face the industrial revolution in the 19th century. ==References== There the English called children equipped with brushes "Chimney Sweeps". Gerhart Hauptmann, too, has set a permanent monument with his “webers” of this time. We also know the so-called Schwabenkinds from that time until the 1920s of the 20th century. Throughout the century in Tyrol, from Vorarlberg, but also from Switzerland on foot, have walked over the Alps, namely after Upper swabs, where they often only had to work against food and quarters, especially in agriculture. The UNICEF today expects a number of 190 million children to work mainly in developing countries. The main reason for this is poverty, especially the parents. We all in developing countries know many examples where children, especially physically disabled children, are being sent to the streets as beggars or, in many areas of the front east, as carpeters under very difficult and poor conditions, their lives are limited. Major states such as India are particularly affected, but also the metropolises in South America and especially Africa south of the Sahara. The main reason is economic problems, the poverty of parents. Many aid organisations are right to warn; one has already been addressed today, namely the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, which has said it would have little meaning to ban child labour in general, because this does not change the structural problems in these countries. It would be important, however, to prevent, as it were, exploitation of these young people between the ages of 6 and 14 and to provide them with training opportunities so that they can no longer be exploited in the future. We will, of course, give this request our consent, but we are aware that long-term improvement will only be achieved if, in principle, the economic conditions in these countries are improved. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27899	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We are very pleased that the Human Rights Committee has made it possible to create a large majority in favour of the majority of the resolution we have tabled. However, we believe that what is to be decided by this motion for a resolution today can only be one of the first steps of these three points. I would like to join my previous speaker, who said that many more measures are necessary and that, as long as the living conditions and the financial conditions of many, many families in the world are not improved, unfortunately neither child labour nor child slavery can be effectively prevented. We therefore agree with this motion for a resolution, knowing that it is better than nothing at all, but that it is not sufficient and sufficient in the case of Weitem. We would have liked to see a green amendment, which was dealt with and discussed in the Human Rights Committee, find a majority who, in our opinion, would have included much more concrete measures, much more concrete national measures against child slavery and the exploitation of children. We believe that effective fight against child slavery also requires national measures and that it is not sufficient to instruct the Federal Government in relation to international measures. As far as international measures are concerned, it would be necessary to focus on child slavery in the context of targeted Austrian development cooperation. It would be necessary to extend the protection of victims domestically by, for example, improving the care and accommodation of victims. creating victims of child slavery and helping victims, for example, to enforce their claims for damages and pains. All of this does not yet provide for this motion for a resolution, but we remain optimistic, we will monitor the implementation with our eyes on it and will not distance ourselves from proposing further further measures in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27960	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e27981	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Korun, you are of course right that this agreement with the government parties is far from sufficient. You know the whole of the request I have made concerning measures against child slavery, which in more than ten points contains concrete measures, while this Federal Government, as we know, could only agree on three sentences, which I really feel is very disgraceful. The application was made on 15 May. In October 2009, and on the grounds of the situation in the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, refers to the trafficking of children, which is taking place there, which now gets a terrible face again because of this terrible earthquake. As we have to learn about the “time in the picture”, the international media, the printing media, many victims will only arise in the next few days and weeks after this earthquake disaster, namely those children who are now being sold who are enslaved into slave and human trafficking. I expect you not only to sit on the phone and do something for “light in the dark” but also to do something about it, Mrs. Federal Minister. You got it in your hand! Don't put on the dirndl and go to such events and then say that my presence is my charitable contribution to alleviate the disaster, but we ask you to do something about these measures against trafficking in children and people. The second thing I ask you to do, yes, is to see and help trade in human beings and children not only through international disasters, but also through trafficking in children and people on the ground, in Austria. The UNICEF 2007 report is known to you? [[Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner knows this.]] Very good! The allegations contained therein since 2007 are fully valid until 2010. This report condemned Austria and wrote that we are guilty of trafficking in children and human beings in Austria, in connection with organised beggar crime. You know the 2007 report. But if you know him anyway, then I wonder why you, as Minister of Justice, have to experience in the area of trafficking in human beings, the slave trade, in Vienna, Graz, and so on, where children are exploited, where children are deprived of parents, so that they have to sit on the stone with the naked butt in Graz with the greatest cold, in order to do the dirty business for any of the backmen, do nothing, why don't you fight it if you know it anyway. We also call on you to take proper action against this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a first step today, which is the minimum variant of a step. Especially the disaster in Haiti and the subsequent trafficking of human beings should have forced you to do more than just three headlines. We will, of course, be very much in the future to implement more initiatives by Austria at international level, but also at national level against trafficking in human beings and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28035	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28057	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Exploiting child labour meets us – we have already heard it – in quarries, in carpets, on plantations. Children are abused as soldiers, as sex and work slaves, as their families are torn away, or sold by them out of great need, at least because of their future. I believe that the bandwidth, which we can do about it here in the developed countries, is very large. I would particularly like to address one of these possibilities, which is the public procurement, where, in Austria, more than €40 billion can be spent each year on the part of the individual local authorities and with this apparent sum, standards can be set. We can also use tender criteria politically and see that we can exclude child labour through standards relating to public procurement. It is estimated that half of all workwear is bought by the public sector – and we know that in the textile sector child labour, especially in India or China, remains a major problem. Public procurement is 16 to 17 percent of the gross national product in the EU average, which is quite something that is, so to speak, a very large mass of play, which can be politically designed. I think we will be more and more called upon to draw up criteria as they are already applied to many good-quality seals – for example, fair trade or STEP in carpets – so that it is clear that there is no child labour in these products. It is very important to me to monitor these quality seals, these criteria and where there are no good criteria, such as in the whole area of the stone industry – from street coverings to facades of houses built in the public sector – to create such ones. It is important that Austria is also progressing with good example and trying to develop and apply such criteria together with other large buyers. In my view, this proposal is a first step, and many others still have to follow. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28103	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28124	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is a sad fact that human trafficking and child slavery are still possible in many countries of the world. It is terrifying to hear that around 30 million children live on the streets worldwide and are of course easy victims of such activities. Of course, it is logical – it has been said by all the previous speakers – that we must do everything we can to stop these abuses. This includes legal action on the one hand, but it is also part of the fact that we are really fighting this evil at the root, that we are removing the inability that often exists in these countries, that we are fighting poverty, that we create jobs there – that is, in concrete terms, that we are making reasonable development cooperation with these countries. According to what I heard today from the speaker of the FPÖ, I am pleased that FPÖ is again committed to a reasonable development cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28157	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28178	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I am also very pleased that a unanimous decision on this motion for a resolution will be taken today. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, not only the Federal Government is invited to take more action in the future when it comes to acting against international child slavery, but also we MEPs and all the people in Austria can make an increased contribution to child slavery, by changing our consumer behaviour in such a way that we say we buy only more products that clearly indicate that these were made without child labour, that they were made without child slavery – from the extraction of raw materials, from harvesting to processing. There are examples of this: e.g. fairtrade. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we can make a contribution to the fact that children are no longer attracted to slavery – for example, in the extraction of cocoa in Africa or in the mining of stones, of stone slabs in India. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying something about Haiti's tragedy. The television pictures show us this catastrophe every day. Perhaps there is an opportunity, with the reconstruction and the necessary and important international support of the Western world, with the conclusion of contracts, of agreements, to also take advantage of the possibility of reorganising the system in the interests of the people and children of Haiti, namely that in the future less or no more children will be used for slavery in Haiti, not to household services in the middle and upper classes, where children are currently used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28217	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28239	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Talking about human rights also means dealing with each other in a decent way. If I look at Mr Grosz, I must say that I have not heard a speech from him here in Parliament, in which he has not made deplorable and despicable statements about other people. Who should take you seriously, Mr Grosz, then? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us be glad that the Minister of Justice is acting that she is with the people – and not just talking big! Now on the subject of child slavery. When we work on this issue, it is painful to note that trafficking in human beings and slavery are not a historical phenomenon, but unfortunately there are still many people today, especially children who are affected by it. The estimates are from 12 to 27 million people; the dark figures are expected to be much higher. Unbelievable suffering, especially that of children, has only recently been brought to the fore after this earthquake disaster in Haiti. The world's public must not look at it, but act. Austria has acted; in our country, this disaster has been sensitive, compassionate and also donor-friendly. It is also praiseworthy to mention that causes and roots of slavery are tried by us to combat: Poverty, unemployment and hunger. Austria, also supported by the Chamber of Agriculture and the Raiffeisen Association, has launched the initiative to provide 1,000 farm families with seeds, fertilizers and feed to combat the poverty that prevails there, this basic evil. I believe that it is a unique feature of human culture to provide for the sick and weak and to fight for a better world. I ask all of you to do this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28296	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28317	Mr President. It is nice that we will join forces with the decision-making of this request for stronger international measures against child labour. It has already been said: Estimates of the International Labour Organisation assume that we have over 200 million children, of which more than half are forced into extremely dangerous child labour. A subject in this context is certainly also the shipwreck industry, for example in Bangladesh, where ships are being disassembled, and that is often the case with children. I would like to point out that we also have an International World Day against Child Labour; the 12. June is this day. On this occasion, I should also like to point out that trade unions at international level have also made a great deal of effort in recent years, including many activities and demands, as well as boycott measures. We are not at the first step today, Mrs Korun, but we are actually taking another step. And here I am with you, too: That this step must follow further steps, you also have the approval of us Social Democrats. However, the core requirements are also to support more free public education in these countries. Then: If you go to school, you can't work. At the same time, it is also about applying existing wages for adults. That, in turn, is trade union freedom, i.e. international support. In this direction, we should set more emphasis. I am pleased that we can enforce a unanimous adoption of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28357	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Plassnik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28378	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We should avoid approaches to self-righteousness, especially in a matter where we are basically in agreement. That is nice, we therefore also support this request. I am the last one to explore the international facets of this problem, and I am convinced that we can still do a lot here, but we should not spare out the disgraces that still exist with us. There are many things, especially in connection with the new technologies. Child pornography is a subject that we don't work seriously enough. I've read a biterl and I can say: We have been dealing with this issue for the last time in the House in 2007, and I do not want us to need another terrible occasion to discuss it excitedly. I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs for taking the initiative in Toledo at the recent meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers to point out the urgency of this problem. It seems that – I am not an expert on this topic – we have now also experienced in Germany the web filtering that we have opportunities to manage access, as have other countries such as Norway, the Netherlands and Sweden, if I am properly informed. Perhaps, out of her conviction, the Federal Minister can also make herself an engine in the fight against this form of slavery, for that is it. Finally, let me say in all our name a word of outrage on a human rights issue that is at my heart: The execution of two young oppositional people in Iran is unacceptable! This is a shame to the regime in Tehran.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28411	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28433	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! As a member of the Committee on Human Rights and above all as a member of an organisation that is now very committed to “Nadbar in Emergency”, it is also a concern, on behalf of the Austrian People’s Aid, to express how much fate and suffering is at our heart, especially for children, especially now, in the face of the disaster in Haiti. I can point out that we are working there with partner organisations that have been working on the ground for years, even now, especially after this disaster, in the interest of the children – as we have already done in the tsunami and in other disasters – in order to combat all the terrible facets of child labour, child slavery, as a result of the drag of children, child robbery and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! I have read the latest book of Jean Ziegler, “The Hatred of the West” with great concern, in which he states that the hatred of the Third World on the West is often nourished by the historical theme of slavery. Slavery is largely theoretically abolished, but it is not abolished in the modern form as Ziegler expresses it. If we have to fight against child labour, then we must, as he puts it, reduce the “cannibal world order of globalized financial capital” fen. In other words, we must contribute to a democratic, healthy world order, to a healthy economic system, especially in the Third World, in developing countries. In this sense, I hope that this joint decision will also have positive consequences in this direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28469	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the written Committee Report 587 of the Supplements. If you stand for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 77.) [[19:46:54]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 875/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues on the implementation of the anti-torture Convention (588, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28518	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. It is the first Member of Parliament to report on the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28543	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The human rights spokespersons of SPÖ and ÖVP call for the inclusion of the crime of torture in the Austrian Criminal Code. They justify their claims by the fact that there have been incomprehensible mild judgments for years because the law did not address the crime of torture enough. In our opinion, in the opinion of the BZÖ, the required torture database has been sufficiently implemented due to existing offences in the Criminal Code. Because we could not recognize gaps in the law, we will therefore also not agree to the inclusion of the crime of torture in the Criminal Code. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we hold: There is still enough criminal framework for tougher and sharper judgments. These criminal frameworks should only be used in accordance with the occasion. However, because this is not always the case, we must now treat in the House a disgraceful judgment of the judicial system. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, is currently outraged. The People's Soul was buying. And why did the people's soul cook? – Because you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have acute needs for action in the judicial area. On the starting point: An Austrian Turkish woman, a six-fold mother, had been treatged with an iron tube and had injured her life-threatening with dozens of knife sticks because the woman wanted to get divorced. Now a schöppensenat sentenced the Turkish-born man not because of the attempted murder, but only because of the attempted killing – a crime threatened with lower punishment. The laity court and the prosecutor approved the defendant – and this must now be done on the tongue – because of his Turkish the future to have a generally understood strong movement of mind and to have acted out of the fragility. That means: The act was committed from the affect and because of this generally violent movement of mind – and this, ladies and gentlemen, although the man had already announced days before that he would kill his wife! In this case, as a laity court, the schöfensenat was probably mistaken by obviously false regulations. But what is much more inconceivable, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that even the prosecutor distorts this violent movement of mind in the effect during the act. That's incredible! The sentence was: six years of imprisonment – that is, Peanuts! Every person with a healthy mind will in fact recognize a hidden and tried murder. It is moral and social a shame if such a misjudgment is made. That is why some foreigners are being encouraged not to necessarily respect human lives. In another case, it is also tried to manipulate a judgment in favour of the perpetrator's descendants: A Turkish invaded his brother-in-law eight times because he had spoken badly about his sister. He would have reproached about Turkish women – for this he was put down eight times. This act, of course, speaks for itself. Nevertheless, one now admits to a lawyer, his defender, to throw the former nationality or the cultural environment of the perpetrator into the balance of justice as a criminal mitigating. – This development is horrendous! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are heading towards multi-class society. Future Presumptuous Stone or handshake, homicide, forced ewes or genital mutilations are suspected as cultural misbehaviour with particularly mild judgments. The introduction of a multicultural right, as required by parts of the Greens, is strictly rejected by the BZÖ and must be combated by all means. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In Austria, only our right, based on our values, is valid. The application of these laws must apply to all. Otherwise, you can really say: It looks bad with our rule of law if it continues in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28619	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28640	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 1987, Austria ratified the UN Convention against Torture, and in fact, since 1989 the clarification – if I say it now simplified – of torture should have taken place in its own law. This has not yet been done, although this has been frequently demanded by the UN, but also by the UN Special Representative against torture, by Professor Manfred Nowak. In the discussion in the Human Rights Committee, you, Mrs. Minister, welcomed the fact that, in connection with the motion for a resolution in your ministry by May, you will present your own government template on torture and on your own; in so far as we can finally proceed to implementation. If I am properly informed, a large meeting of the Anti-Folter Committee will take place in April or May, and if Austria Then, as it were, a government template can be presented, and this is a successful step in the right direction for us too. In this sense, I thank all those who went with me, because it was not originally what it looked like. I think we can already be very proud that we've done this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28677	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28698	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As explained by my previous speakers, it is a question of asking the Federal Minister for Justice to present a proposal for a law which, if necessary, regulates the additional implementation of the UN-Folder Convention into our criminal laws. I would like to point out that, of course, it would not have required this motion for a resolution by Mr Korun and her friends, because, and this is also mentioned in this proposal, the government agreement for this legislative period has already provided for this project. But when it comes to you to successfully implement motions for resolutions, Mrs Col. You would also like to introduce other passages from the Government Convention as a motion for a resolution here. I would also like to take a very brief look at the comments made by my colleague. I believe that it is very dangerous to take out individual criminal judgments, tear them out of the context, and derive from them criticism of the laws in general or, above all, criticism of the attitude of justice. Of course, judgments can also be criticised and reviewed and, of course, decisions should also be based on our work to find out whether there may be a need for amendment in various laws, including criminal laws. But what you don't want to do: Such judgments, torn from the context, are very emotional. In the end, I think that is damaging to the case, which is very damaging to a balanced criminal law. I would invite you to return to the material level, to discuss this judgment together when it is published and then to establish any need for change. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28731	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28753	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Donnerbauer, my previous speaker list is right in one, and that is the fact that the legal implementation of the Torture Convention in Austria would not be necessary, because we have the standard of this convention in Austria at Weitem, actually since the 18th century. ==References== The torture convention, which we will now implement, is in some respects even lower than our legal standard, especially in the exception that would be unthinkable for us: that there can be no accusation of torture due to legal sanctions. Thus, if in a legal system, for example, the execution is permitted by law, no accusation can be raised from it in the context of the Torture Convention. This is no longer possible since 1779 by the abolition of the physical punishment and the definitive abolition of torture in us. Nevertheless, we have decided to agree to the motion for a resolution and to support a legal anchoring of torture, for declarative reasons, because we also believe that torture is something that must be considered unbearable worldwide. We also see a very interesting point in the Convention, which is almost nowhere to be implemented, namely the universal competence of the Member States for infringements of the Torture Convention. Articles 5 and 6 also require the EU Member States, even if the act is not committed abroad – in our case – to Austrian citizens, but fulfils the state of the torture, commits criminal proceedings and arrests people in order to allow their condemnation. This is, of course, a very interesting thing. Although I have to oppose the claim that human rights are universal – they are certainly not; every culture sees human rights differently, sees the priorities differently – at least one point should be considered universal by us, even if we do not play on moral colonialists, and that is the torture. It will be interesting whether we have the courage to adopt provisions in the implementation of the Torture Convention, which will also make it possible for former no longer immunity-protected officials, relatives, heads of state, ministers of other essential states, including the USA, but also Israel, with whom we have good, close relations, to take members of these states into custody. You'll be excited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28789	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28810	Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to participate in the copyright dispute, whether it is the success of the Greens or the understanding of the Government Convention. As an opposition politician, I am always happy when the Ministry of Justice's plans cover with me. That's a nice success. Let's just look forward to both of us wanting the same thing and taking an important step forward. Mr. Liste, in one you are ill-informed: They say it's nothing more to do with the anti-torture convention. The UN anti-torture committee, which explicitly called for anti-torture provisions in Austrian criminal law in 1999 and 2005. Amnesty International has also repeatedly criticized this. It's about two things: The word “folter” does not appear in Austrian criminal law. There is also no torture definition. That requires the Convention, and that is also important. The second point is the criminal framework. The UN anti-torture convention provides for 6 to 20 years. One can argue about this, of course they are realized in some sub-delicts, but the crucial point, and I believe that is: We need higher criminal frameworks because the level of care of an official is higher than that of someone who is not an official. I believe that this should also express the law explicitly, not because we are constantly being tortured, but because, where there is malaise and black sheep, we have to make it clear that this is the wrong way. One point that is still open, Mrs. Justice Minister, is the world punishment principle that we also condemn torturers who have tortured in their home countries. This is already anchored in itself and this also requires the anti-torture convention, and we need to discuss the implementation alone. I am not aware of any Austrian judicial and police action in this regard. I believe that there is a need to raise awareness in order to comply with this principle of world punishment. Ladies and gentlemen, leave But I should like to comment on another subject of human rights, freedom of assembly. Today in the evening, the ball of the far right corporations takes place in Vienna. It was tried in advance to register a demonstration, but that was simply impossible. All attempts to create ordered lanes have been rejected. It has only been approved of a rally, and as I hear it, we are now trying everything to escalize this rally from the police. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't quite understand, ladies and gentlemen. The participants of this rally, which has so far been peaceful, have been encircling the protesters, and obviously it is the goal – I don't know why, I can't understand it; it means it is desired from the very top – to bring this demonstration to an escalation. [[new calls to the ÖVP]] This will certainly have a parliamentary follow-up. That is, step by step in the right of the congregation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28869	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28890	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It has already been mentioned: In 1987 Austria ratified the Convention against Torture. Nevertheless, the decreed definition of torture has not yet been included in the Austrian criminal law. I am very glad that this is to be done in a short time. Unfortunately, the international fight against torture, abuses, humiliating acts, against systematic application of torture must be kept in focus again and again. For example, I would like to mention the signature action carried out years ago to avert torture by Amnesty International and the debate in the House in the Human Rights Committee and in the plenary session on the labour or, better or correctly, reeducation camps in China. Ladies and gentlemen, digital human rights are a special challenge. It is also about creating, promoting, establishing in Austria and internationally, and establishing sustainable regulations. Protection of privacy requires new European rules based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights. This was also the tenor of yesterday's survey in the Federal Chancellery on the occasion of the European Data Protection Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28924	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28947	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in the House! First, I would like to address my previous speakers from FPÖ and BZÖ: Of course, in Austrian criminal law, torture stocks have already been taken into account. We would be a banana republic if we hadn't done that for a long time. However, it is good that torture is now definitely included in the criminal code according to the international UN Convention. I think that shows once again the high importance of human rights in Austria. I am very happy about this because it also regulates the need for such compensation, someone should have been tortured and people who are threatened by torture in their home country should not be postponed. This is a further step towards human rights, which is very welcome. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28977	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e28999	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to welcome the joint decision in the Human Rights Committee and the forthcoming majority decision, but I must say a few words about Mr Donnerbauer's statements. Mr President, I think it is quite courageous to have ratified this anti-torture Convention in 1987 22 years after the ratification of the UN Convention against Torture – well known as Austria, in 1987, and as far as I am informed, since that time, since 1987, the ÖVP has been in the Federal Government, and has been producing itself here after 22 unacting years: We would have done it anyway, because we have it in the Government Agreement! I am pleased if you have something in the government agreement, but on this occasion I can also remind you that the last government agreement, for example, also states that the reinforced foreign laws should be evaluated, and that has not yet been done. So, as an opposition, we better not rely on if government parties write something into a government agreement, we don't put our hands in the lap and wait and hope that the government parties will implement it. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: I invited you!]] Now to the content. – We are very pleased – it was an initiative of the Greens, but without a majority in the Human Rights Committee and in the plenary session, of course, it would not have happened – that three political groups have joined this issue and that the Minister of Justice – hopefully soon! – a law novel will be presented. We find today is a good day for democracy and a bad day for dictators and torturers, because the more countries in this world that have ratified and actually implemented the UN Anti-False Convention, the more dictators and torturers need to be afraid that they cannot travel around freely without being given the fair punishment. With regard to the Austrian cases – the text of Bakary J., the penitentiary, who was deliberately tormented by several police officers – we have seen that the lack of a separate torture paragraph leads to ridiculously low penalties, even in well documented and proven torture cases, as unfortunately in the case where this happened by Austrian police officers. This should also be pushed forward with its own torture section. Thanks many times for the support, for going along. And how we look forward to the novelties that we hope will soon be able to welcome to the House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29035	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29057	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the outset, I would like to say that Austria has already reached an extremely high standard in the area of legal protection of human rights in international comparison. Nevertheless, even at the high level achieved in Austria, faults and wrongs of individuals are never completely excluded or prevented despite extensive training and high quality standards. Due to the errors, there is still room for improvement. We are making sure that this room is getting smaller. Further improvement of our existing high level of protection is useful, necessary and objective of our work at the National Council's Human Rights Committee. In this context, the SPÖ/ÖVP federal government's work programme sets the following objectives – quote –: In the implementation of a recommendation from the UN Committee against Torture, a definition of torture should be included in the Criminal Code and the protection against torture should be revised. With the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, which is now before the plenary session, we have therefore launched and may perhaps be able to complete a further task of the government programme. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a provision in the Austrian Federal Constitution, Article 7. In this it says: “All federal citizens are equal before the law. The privileges of birth, gender, status, class and confession shall be excluded.’ Why this note? – Several maladministrations have been identified in the last investigative committee. For example, an official state captain has not been sentenced or charged for legal ignorance, and in connection with a former minister the charges have remained, and the whole has been delayed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Minister, step in, he's fraught with nonsense! He doesn't belong to us anymore, but...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, These examples show that there is a need for action. There must be a correction and equality for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29091	There is no further word for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 588 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 78.) [[20:11:54]] 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on amendment 866/A by Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Peter Wittmann, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the European electoral system, the European Election Act, the Electoral Evidence Act 1973, the Volksammungsgesetz 1972, the People's Survey Act 1989, the National Council Election Act 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 and the Volksbewandungsgesetz 1973 (Walkrechtsammengesetz 2010) (595 d.B.) 6. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 615/A by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues on a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Election of Members of the European Parliament (European Election Order – EuWO), BGBl. No. 117/1996, amended (596 d.a.) 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 605/A by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a federal law, with which the Volksammungsgesetz 1972, BGBl. II No 147/2008, amended (597 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29170	We come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29197	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the electoral change law, which makes a number of sensible small regulations which are an improvement. However, an essential point is still not changed, and that is the choice of letter. We have repeatedly noted that we have fundamental concerns because this does not guarantee the essential principles of the right to vote, namely free, personal and secret voting rights. I have already said several times, where I see the concerns: that it is not guaranteed that the voice is actually released, unaffected that it is also personally delivered, is not really guaranteed, nor is it secret. There is no change, however. In addition, it is still possible to carry out so-called fraud elections, i.e. the vote after closing the constituencies. We know that the first high-end calculations are, for example, only announced after the constituency has been closed, in order to prevent voters from being influenced by the outcome of the election – this is not guaranteed by the constituencies. As a result, the new regulation has been introduced that an affidavit must be made that the vote has been taken before the constituency has been closed. In fact, this is not a real protection, because if I want to be a shy picker, I will make this statement. It would therefore be a simple, simple and simple provision for the choice of letters to be carried out before closing the constituency or at all 24 hours before that. This prevents me from doing so, then I don't need an affidavit or anything else, but I have an objective criterion. In this respect, we have also tabled an amendment which provides that 24 hours before the constituency of the constituency has already reached this election, either at a representative authority or at a unit, or a corresponding post stamp must be attached to it. In any case, this will ensure that this would be possible in all the countries of this earth. We do not see why at least this was not agreed on in the Committee, because it would be practically without further action. The argument that the letters are only sent so late is not a real one either, because this time limit can simply be moved forward and thus ensure that the vote can actually be carried out before the constituency is closed. Another proposal on which this is concerned concerns a change to the People's Voting Act. Article 50 of the Federal Constitutional Act made it clear that even if an overall change in the Constitution is made by a state treaty, a referendum must be carried out. And that would consistently also be understood in the People's Voting Act. There's nothing else about it. I also assume that such an objective request finds the majority of this House – he did not find it in the Committee. Perhaps the political groups have now looked at this again, examined it and found that it would definitely be a sensible scheme.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29248	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29270	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Referring to my previous speaker: We have now opted for the choice of letters, and the choice of letters is a relief for the voters. The arguments put forward here would, in principle, reject a choice of letters. I don't think that's up to date. Therefore: We have the choice of letters, and we support them. We have already decided on the choice of letters for the European elections in the form we now choose them for other elections. That is to say, this is nothing but a re-examination of the rules we have in the European elections, a harmonisation of the right to vote for all levels of election. I think that this is a relief that it is easier for citizens if the same rules apply to all elections. This will make a decision close to the citizen. Short to the eight days: You can argue about whether eight days are not too many. The prescheduling of 24 hours before the election would have the disadvantage that the Recent events before a election could no longer take into account – such as the terrorist attack in Madrid, which took place just before a election – that they could not be included in the decision of the letter-picker. That is why one has opted for a move until after the election. I think there are reasons for both sides as well as for the other side. We believe that decisions must be able to be made in such a way that everything that is there until the choice of decision-making bases can influence. Electoral card subscription is introduced. In essence, this entire bill is based on making the choice easier, making the choice easier and bringing more people to vote. I think that this draft will succeed. In short, this legal opinion on state agreements. This is a legal opinion represented by a professor. In itself, however, it is true that the entire other doctrine or ruling legal opinion is that an overall change in the federal constitution can only be brought about by a federal constitution law. This was the case when we joined the European Union, and that is what we are keeping up with.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29321	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29342	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have always supported the choice of letters. That is why we consider the current corrections to be useful, especially because it takes into account a legitimate objection from the Data Protection Commission, which, of course, called for anonymization in the Kuverts. So far, it has been so – and everyone who has made use of this instrument of the choice of letters knows – that from the outside it was clear with name and address who sent this envelope. That is, the secret election was not given in this sense. The abuse – this envelope has a long way – were open door and gate. That was corrected now. The editorial errors we have identified in the committee have also been corrected. That is why we, of course, agree. As regards the FPÖ's request, it is to be said that we know – you also said it – that you basically reject the choice of letters. In the case of such instruments, of course, we have to discuss a gray area again and again, which is no question at all. But now 24 hours before the election date to demand the delivery or the arrival, I also consider it problematic. As for the secret right to vote, I consider flying electoral commissions to be much more problematic in hospitals or in old houses, where one cannot be sure whether the vote really corresponds to the will of the person entitled to vote. There would be a real need for action. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] A sentence on the second request of the FPÖ. We will agree that there should be a referendum on all-changing state agreements. Mr Wittmann's remarks are already surprising, because I still have the words of Chancellor Faymann in my ear, who has guaranteed – whether you support them or not, but the SPÖ has guaranteed and promised – that in the future the people will be questioned in the face of all-changing state agreements. Now, suddenly, there are no elections ahead. There is no major discussion about the Lisbon Treaty. Now you can see it differently again. The FPÖ has also learned to do so, because it called for a referendum before the Lisbon Treaty, although there was no legal basis at all at that time. We will give our support to this request for a legal basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29391	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29412	Mr President. High house! The fact that the Austrian People's Party has fought for the election of letters is active and obvious, for many years. Thanks be to God we have also enforced this choice of letters. This is an absolutely positive step for democracy. We have had good experience in the National Council election with it, but also noted that the instrument is capable of improving. That is why there has been a novel for the European elections. This novelle has arrived absolutely positive. But even then it has been shown that we need such a legal basis also for the Federal President's election. Therefore, thanks be to God for the timely decision-making. But there have also been experiences such as the hidden allongs in the sense of securing the election secret. Mr Stefan, on the argument of the deadline: I mean, it would be much smarter if you said you were against the choice of letters. That is a possible point of view. I think he's wrong. However, the argument of the deadline is a very bad one. Why? With everything you say: 24 hours or electoral day, in turn, exclude people from the right to vote, for example all who live abroad. How do you want to achieve that someone participates in the letter election, and say, at the time of the election, must the letter...? I can't, I just can't! For example, if you say postage stamps, that is not possible. There are many countries in the world that have no postage stamps. Therefore, if you are in favour of more people participating in democracy: Are you for the choice of letters and therefore also for the current improvement? To your request: We do not need to discuss this at all, of course, that a change in the constitution should be subject to a referendum. From my point of view, what Öhlinger means is simply not correct. You've joined the wrong position here. It is therefore clear that we have rejected this request in committee because it does not take into account at all the right to make fundamental amendments to a vote which is, of course, guaranteed. He'd be wrong. You have not looked at this well because simply this question of principle is of course the whole change and your application does not improve or worsen. That's just unnecessary. Öhlinger's not right and you're not right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29445	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29467	Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of these electoral rights because they include important changes, first and foremost the electoral map for those in need. This means that people who would have to overcome barriers, as it were, would have to get a electoral card, can subscribe to the electoral card for a longer period of time and Therefore, have easier access to choice. In addition, the anonymisation of the electoral card that is now being introduced is no longer possible to assign the electoral card to people. But of course we also have our problems with this request. We have also expressed this in the Committee by our voting behaviour, and I would like to mention this briefly here, because, of course, some of these voting rights amendments are a follow-up to the legal changes which you have debated in the framework of the registered partnership law and, above all, in the field of rights of designation there in December and have decided against our votes or with some of our votes to introduce, so to speak, that registered partners must not have a surname but a surname. What you have created here is clearly a humiliating, discriminatory law, a law that forces people to go out. Why? – Because you can’t put a dash between the two names, just as you can’t now, as you do with married couples, but because you put the two names together without setting a dash, from whatever logical arguments. These are not imaginable for me and not accessible to me either. This, of course, means that when people have to state their name in an official way, there is a difference between people who place a dash – that is, one knows, those people who live in heterosexual legal relations – and people who do not place a dash – that is, people who live in homosexual relationships. I know that the lesbian and gay initiatives are preparing some complaints and legal steps in this regard. We'll watch all this, wait. In any case, we will support it. Nevertheless, we are going to agree today because there are a lot of other changes to the right to vote that are necessary. One thing I can also mention on the right to vote: We have also submitted to the committee a request from Mr Korun and I for the municipal right to vote for migrants. It has been postponed as many applications, where the government or majority parties, as it were, do not wish to express their views or express their views clearly. The important thing there has already been – and I would like to mention here again – that ÖVP, BZÖ and FPÖ have argued in terms of content, of course in a different direction than we do; but this was particularly annoying that SPÖ has not brought here a single substantive argument – a SPÖ that at the same time rules in Vienna, which, together with the Greens, has decided on a request in Vienna, has passed such a law, which, as we all know, was repealed by the Constitutional Court at the time. I do not consider this bird-strout policy to be worthy of this head-in-the-sand-stitch for a government party in Vienna. We will continue this discussion, both in Vienna and here in the National Council. I'm already excited about how the SPÖ will behave here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29512	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29533	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Choosing is one of our top and most important things. I think it's also good that we make the choice easier and more attractive that we act against constituency and do something to support people's convenience. But I also believe that it is very important that the elections can be carried out freely, personally and secretly, that the powerful citizens can really easily come to vote and choose when they want to be independent of legal barriers. However, I have also been a practitioner, as longtime electorate, to recognize that a lot of abuse is being done during the letter election, namely in nursing homes with authority. [[Abg. Wöginger: In the flying?]] No, there are people who, equipped with a proxy, come to the Electoral Authority to get the ticket. [[Abg. Grill: A lot happens in Carinthia!]] There are often things that are simply not correct and not okay. Unfortunately, there are also social organisations that benefit from this – and with us in Carinthia it has also happened, for example, that a group has advertised by post: We'll bring you the documents for choosing home! – Unfortunately, it was the ÖVP that did this; that is sad, but true! [[Abg. Grill: A lot happens in Carinthia!]] We were sorry that a good system in itself has been so exploited. [[New call to the ÖVP.]] – Unfortunately, the ÖVP Carinthia is obviously very vulnerable to such things; you can see that again and again, but that is unfortunately so. I mean, that's why you should really consider whether there are more freedoms or certain things that are more stringent. I believe it is very important that it is already in the electoral authority during the election of the letter on the day of the election of the letter, but also that a so-called electoral card subscription is not useful, because it will be even more difficult for the electoral authorities to check: Is the constituency really voluntary? The opinion of us Freemen in Carinthia: Yes to simplifications, but it must be ensured that the choice of letters is carried out freely, secretly and in person and that there is no abuse. I hope you understand that we cannot therefore accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29609	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29630	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is indisputable that this proposal will bring reliefs, improvements and simplifications. [[Abg. Linder talks to Abg. Scheibner.]] If Mr. Collegue would listen to me a little, I could also address his comments.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29651	Mr Linder, you have been addressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29678	It is very interesting what Mr Linder from Carinthia has reported, because, of course, such incidents – no matter what; at least those associated with a grey area – are problematic. Even if this template facilitates and improves: If there is a grey area, if there are dangers when there are objections, then you have to, be very vigilant. I am also a hundred percent because we observe this very closely, including the eight-day frist. I think we all agree here in the House: If there is even a hint of evidenceable abuse, then we sit together in the Constitutional Committee and will evaluate it and look at it very carefully, because it is about the most sensitive areas in democracy. Again: If there is evidence of abuse in such developments, then you have to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29720	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29742	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Linder, where should I turn when Gram and Pain push me?!, you could say that to you, because just a few weeks ago you would have been different, because you really can't be against a choice of letters at all; for this there are no comprehensible and coherent arguments. Mr Scheibner put it to the point: If we are talking about the fact that the election secret is not kept, we must say that this is more the case with the flying electoral commissions in very large nursing homes, but certainly not in a letter election. Mr Stefan, look at the Federal Republic of Germany, where the choice of letters has been applied for decades: Up to 30 percent of the population use the possibility of choosing a letter. There are also very, very positive examples in our country: In the last election of Upper Austria, there was a very high number of elections; also in the municipal elections. Again: You can't be against the choice of letters! This means more flexibility for voters and voters. Old methods, which are not even understandable, can be used in your series, but we are very happy to offer the Austrians the choice of letters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Modern ÖVP!]] Of course, we want to optimize them and make them more citizens-friendly – yes, you learn about them everywhere. An evaluation has been necessary, and with this change the choice of letters will be made even more civil. It also reduces the vulnerability of errors, and it also allows for the issue of electoral cards in the electoral authority. In all, therefore, a very good way to vote, also in view of the forthcoming Federal Presidential election. In this context, I would like to make the following amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Molterer, Dr. Wittmann, colleagues on request 866/A concerning electoral law 2010. Mr President, I am simply explaining this request in the cornerstones; it is generally about formal amendments. This amendment is intended to correct mainly linguistic or grammatical inaccuracies and citation errors. Paragraph 3 of the amendment aims to clarify in the European electoral order the insertion of a parentheses to the information to be provided. Ladies and gentlemen, you agree with this proposal because: Whoever doesn't go with time is going with time!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29795	The amendment that has just been tabled was explained in its core points and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29888	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29909	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I should like to follow up on the comments made by my colleague, Mr Herber, who, as I believe, has said everything to be said about this. Mr Wöginger, as you have referred to Upper Austria: The election secret is of course a very high asset, but unfortunately God gets us to hear from complaints again and again – and especially from Lower Austria. In Lower Austria, there is a certain need for democracy policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Complaints are particularly reported in connection with old-age homes, and there is a need to check whether the right to vote for the letter is actually exercised as we all wish, Mr Molterer. Therefore, we need to focus and see what is happening in Lower Austria, and ask ourselves: Can we get rid of these abuses, which we're getting reported over and over again? Surely it is so that you can say yes to the right to vote in letter. We took another step with the new tab. I think the development is generally a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29951	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e29983	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Much has already been said about this. In my opinion, it is very welcome that there are still evaluations that are proposed by the People's Republic of China. The Council of Ministers, the Council of Data Protection and the local authorities are involved. This represents a change of law which can be called very positive, because it means improvements and reliefs for citizens. As mayor and head of a municipal election authority, I would like to address some of the provisions that will be particularly positive in practice. The choice of letters has already been addressed in particular here, as well as the fact that – I can confirm this as the head of a municipal election authority – it is best accepted. The omission of dates and places is also a useful relief. As a result, fault rates and formal errors can be kept very low. Ladies and gentlemen, already this year, despite health and age, people have been able to make use of the right to vote because of flying electoral authorities. More recently, these people also have the opportunity to participate in popular desires through the use of flying registration authorities, which is certainly to be described as very positive. Also new is the mandatory provision of the candidate lists both in the electoral card and by hanging out in front of the electoral venues. This ensures that voters can inform themselves about the candidates even before the electoral process in the electoral cell, thus facilitating the issue of a preferred vote accordingly, because the practice has shown that older people in particular are overly demanding when they can only inform themselves about the candidates in the electoral cell. For many years, the local authorities have been criticised for the view of the voter evidence list on Sundays, because this means a substantial financial increase, but also because it has not been used by the population. In my home district, this possibility has not been used for many years. In the future, preferential votes are not to be counted by the district election authorities but by the municipal election authorities. This is also welcome for me, because this means that in a counting process all the results are determined and no additional counting organs have to be commissioned again. Summa summarum a good change of law, which I welcome as mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30037	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30059	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Stefan's request, which aims to amend the referendum law, because a total change in the Constitution can also be made by means of a state treaty, is simply and simply incorrect. We cannot follow the legal basis represented here. A total change in the federal constitution can be seen in terms of the nature. 44 para. 3 only take place through a federal constitution law, and under this federal constitution law can or must then be held a referendum. This has already been the case in the EU, and this has not been changed by the November 2008 issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you have always said that it is a bad solution!]] Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this request is simply and decisive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30095	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30117	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to thank you for your approval of these improvements today. Why? – Because just seniors are very important to us these improvements. For many years, the Federal Government of Seniors has fought for the introduction of the letter election. We even performed a signature action in 2007 – with success. It then came to the choice of letter, but in practice – we have heard it a few times – it was too complicated and too bureaucratic. That's why we need these reliefs, and I'm looking for you: Let's take a positive look at the matter, let's see how it works! These improvements have proved successful in the European elections. The choice of letters brings an advantage to voters, brings great help to older people, brings improvements, and we seniors wish us the next step: not only improvements for these nationwide elections, but also improvements in the choice of letters at other levels. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30144	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft electoral law 2010 in 595 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Molterer, Dr. Wittmann, colleagues, tabled an amendment to Article I(s) 11, 15, 17 and 31 to Article VI(s 16, 26, 44b) and Article VII(s), 14c and 14e. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Molterer, Dr Wittmann, colleagues. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you also agree to this draft at third reading, please give us a sign. – The draft was adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 596 of the supplements. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 597 of the supplements. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[20:44:46]] 8. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 33/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, and a federal law adopting a law on the repair and care of Jewish cemeteries (598, B.B.) 9. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 462/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues on restoration and conservation of Jewish cemeteries in Austria (599 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30235	We come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda. There is no reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30263	Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, in 2001, Austria signed the Washington Agreement, which deals with the restitution of the victims of National Socialism. It is an agreement concluded between the United States and Austria. One point covered by this agreement is the question of restoration and preservation of Jewish cemeteries. At the time, Austria has committed itself to promoting the restoration and preservation of Jewish cemeteries with additional resources. It must be said that there are about 60 Jewish cemeteries in Austria. About a third of them are structurally in a very bad state, not to say catastrophic. And Austria is not only making an increased commitment on the basis of the agreement, but there is already something like a historical debt, considering that in 1938 220 000 Jews lived in Vienna and after the Holocaust it is now only more than 7 500. That is, because of the Holocaust, the descendants of the dead who lie on the cemeteries can no longer take care of them. Now there is the Committee's motion for a resolution, which contains an attempt by the Federal Government to resolve the problem, which was agreed with the IKG Lower Austria and then with Vienna. We do not believe that this solution – and I would like to say that – is wrong and we will also agree with this motion for a resolution. We believe, however, that this proposal is too far away. Why? – It deals exclusively with the question of restoration, but does not really address the question of conservation. Only in a single point does he regulate conservation by saying that there are only means of restoration if the communities finally stand up for conservation. This has not worked and will not work in the future in recent years. And here I recommend reading today’s “standard” that apparently looked at the situation in the congregations on the occasion of our debate today. The title reads as follows: ‘Become a minimum measure’. “The mayors of the affected places feel uninformed and complain about close community budgets.” – This is nothing new in itself, the Office is doing this precisely, and they probably do it right, because the municipal budgets are known to be too low. Only, of course, does that have consequences. It then asked the journalist about some communities. The mayor of Groß-Enzersdorf – there is obviously also a Jewish cemetery – says: “I don’t know the cost. As the council then decides, one will see first." The mayor of Horn says that the municipalities would be “ever more burdened”. He says we're going to have a lawn mowing, but it's more difficult to imagine. The mayor of Gattendorf – also there is a Jewish cemetery – said he could not co-finance further projects at the same time. The funds currently available are being planted. Similar to Kirchberg am Wagram: “I don’t feel completely responsible,” says the mayor there. Even in German-Wagram it is not much different: It is very difficult to make large extra expenditure in the current economic situation. And the President of the Church then brings it to the point and says: "What annoys me is the principle: We decide something, you pay. This is a kind of policy that I do not support.” I don't know why the communities don't care for the cemeteries. I also do not want to continue to philosophy – there will be different reasons, only the communities will not be able to ensure conservation in the future. There are no means of restoration, and that is why the difficult situation is prolonged. Again: We will agree with this agreement, which is contained in the motion for a resolution, because it is certainly a real intermediate step, but we do not understand why our request is not adopted today. He would solve the problem, because once and for all, it is made clear that the League stands up for maintenance and care. Then, together with the IKG Niederösterreich and Vienna, the federal government will be restoring the current maintenance and care costs. That's quiet, you know, when you look at the budget sizes, and that would also guarantee that there really is something going on. There has also been no relevant counter-arguments in all committee debates. The counterargument, which always comes out of the belly a little bit, is always: Well, the communities and countries are sparse, the covenant has to jump in! – This may already be true in some areas, but for this area of reparation I consider this to be a rather small-spirited position. If it works, I'm happy; I have to say that. However, the “standard” articles alone show that it will be difficult, and I can guarantee you that we will look at the situation in half a year, and our request, which is being rejected today, will certainly continue to deal with the House. I hope there'll be some insight. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30340	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30361	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Austria has 63 Jewish cemeteries, which unfortunately are often in a very bad state. This has already been confirmed by Mr Steinhauser. On the one hand, this is linked to the fact that in Austria Almost no more descendants of the Holocaust live and thus the graves can no longer care for. On the other hand, according to religion, Jewish tombs are never dissolved and remain permanent. We did not agree to the request made by the colleagues of the Greens, because we believe that disputes of competence, which have now been held for a very long time, are not resolved by the fact that they are formulated in a federal law. That is why we have tabled our own proposal, which includes the signing of the Washington Agreement at the time and the fact that there have been competence disputes for nine years. In December last year, there was for the first time an agreement where the Federal Government, Lower Austria, Vienna and the IKG agreed to take the first steps. This agreement states that the total financing requirement is €40 million. The federal government will now make available for 20 years in a fund – of course, a national fund; a national fund is a parliamentary fund in which all have a right of co-determination – € 1 million per year for 20 years, and the fund is also open to third parties where the Israeli cultural community has pledged € 20 million. Lower Austria has agreed to finance 25 percent of the repair costs incurred in the country, and Vienna takes over the renovation of the “Kornhäusl” worth €500 000 at the Währinger cemetery. The fact that Vienna has always been aware of its responsibility to history shows that since 1993 to the year 2000 4 million Schilling, from 2002 onwards each €300 000 and from 2007 onwards, 320 000 were transferred to the Jewish community. At the same time, however, natural services have been performed, saying that tree testing has been carried out or storm damage has been eliminated. The priority of projects to be financed in the Fund is to be assessed according to technical criteria. In our request is also the appeal inside that the other federal states should join, because only together can we guarantee the restoration and maintenance of Jewish cemeteries. I think that in addition to this appeal, which is contained in our request, we need, of course, further talks to be held. This, of course, also results in today’s article in the “standard” to which my colleague will say something later.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30413	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30434	Ladies and gentlemen! The Washington Agreement, signed nine years ago and a few days ago, has been a historically essential step that the Republic of Austria has taken. Not from the legal obligation, but also from the historical responsibility, this step was taken, which Wolfgang Schüssel and Susanne Riess-Passer had negotiated at the time. It was an important step, also fulfilling the responsibility of the past and the future. Yes, it is true that several years of discussions have been held about the part of the preservation and repair of Jewish cemeteries. Mr Steinhauser, that is exactly what this question has been. We have talked about the issues of competence for many years, but it is much wiser to get out of the dispute of competence and Just attack the real problems. That is why this agreement, which has been reached, makes sense. It is also true that the IKG says yes. Quite frankly: For me, that's the scale. If the IKG says something yes, it seems to me a real step to be a good step. I personally have conducted some of these negotiations with President Muzicant and therefore know that this has been his objective. I think that this agreement must also be followed by other federal states – not become, but must. Burgenland, I think, is good at it, because Burgenland also has quite a lot of Jewish cemeteries. And I'm telling you quite openly, too: In view of the total cost of € 40 million, I believe that the amount of €500 000 could be improved by the city and the municipality of Vienna, because in the end Vienna also has a historical responsibility in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An open speech on your request, Mr Steinhauser. I have conducted these negotiations myself over many, many months and actually in the past. I told you in committee: First of all, the differences of competence have not brought us further. Real action has brought us further, and also that Minister of Finance Pröll is setting up this fund. Secondly, In principle, I do not think it is right that whenever someone withdraws from a certain responsibility, the Federation should be in a subsidiary position. The concrete way is to help meet the historical and legal responsibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30488	Mr Neubauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30510	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The problem we have experienced in recent years has always been linked to the so-called Washington Agreement, which Austria signed nine years ago. However, the Washington Agreement has always allowed room for appropriate interpretations, which in particular has prompted national leaders across the communities to avoid their actual responsibility. In Vienna, for example, Landesführer Häupl rejected numerous applications in the Vienna Landtag for the renovation and preservation of Jewish cemeteries with its absolute majority in the Landtag. [[Abg. Strache: Although it is his competence!]] If one now makes a federal subject out of this Washington Agreement, although § 118 of the Federal Constitution clearly determines the jurisdiction of the communities, then that is actually not in order. It is not all right, therefore, because we have not only a Jewish community in Austria, but also numerous others, and to all others it would be an inequality, ladies and gentlemen, if we were today to declare a two-class society by law, by going here and acting as if everyone else were leaving themselves and if there were no longer any church authority there. How do you explain this to the Buddhists or others that the tomb care and the maintenance and rehabilitation of their graves should be regulated differently than here in this case? For this reason, we will not agree here when it comes to constructing a change of law from a “Lex Häupl” so that Mr. Häupl will be released from his national and Community obligation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30546	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30568	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we stand – and I agree with Mr Molterer’s statement – of course also on the historical responsibility that we saw in 2001 in the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer in the signing of the Washington Agreement, we are still here today. I believe that this was a perfectly correct step, that there was a historical commitment to the Jewish There is a community and there is a very special constellation. That is why, Mr Neubauer – perhaps it was also misunderstanding what you said today, but: I think that I am completely wrong about this issue, because there is, of course, a very special responsibility for the maintenance and restoration of Jewish cemeteries, to the Jewish community. We have a special responsibility here, and I would like to stress it very particularly. We from the BZÖ have repeatedly confirmed this over the past two years with requests here in the House and have demonstrated it because we are aware of this responsibility. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] That is why I very much welcome this agreement reached shortly before Christmas between the Federal Government, Vienna, Lower Austria and IKG. I'll give Molterer the same thing, too. That's the scale: If the IKG agrees – and I have also asked myself how the negotiations were going – then that is the standard, then it is also to be accepted. But – and I add that too –: If, at €40 million, the city of Vienna – and now I look into the eyes of the Social Democratic Group and also the President of the European Parliament – has a total need for renovation, then what the city of Vienna is doing is worthy of improvement or renegotiation. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] I do not use strong expressions here, because it is a matter of not doing so. But this is already a matter that is negotiable and I did not understand that since the IKG – and we wanted to do so in our request – takes over the majority, but also takes over a large part of the country of Lower Austria, and I am of the opinion that one can improve it. There are also two reasons why we do not agree with the Greens' request: On the one hand, we do not see here a necessary shift of competence when there is a compromise solution. And on the other hand, there is also a point inside which I do not understand that we are going to open up a discussion here – and that is what we can discuss – about the intensification of criminal offences of grave damage; I am also of the opinion that there can be an intensification of the penalties – but that is dependent on them – and that is also, I believe, from the point of view of the Green Group in the Committee recognises that this cannot be done – by confession and belief of the buried person. When it comes to grave damage, there is a general need to discuss the need for an intensification, and not exclusively of Jewish graves, which are disgraced. But this is what you have in your request, Mr President. That is why I think this is wrong, which should also be improved. Overall, it is nevertheless a good solution. We would be pleased if we could also move the Federal Government to use perhaps a Commission of experts to carry out an evaluation: an evaluation of how many graves and graves actually exist in Austria, because the figures vary, which changes – once again it is, once it is less. But it will certainly be less and less if we have to wait another nine years for implementation. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary - and we will control this and accompany it here in the House - to set up this fund this year, to carry out the donation with the first million even this year so that we can proceed quickly to the restoration and restoration of the Jewish cemeteries. I would ask you to do so, and it would be in the sense of everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30628	Mr Ostermayer, President of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I'd like to put the clock at 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30649	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was even present at the negotiating round shortly before Christmas – Federal Chancellor Faymann, Vice Chancellor Pröll and the two heads of state Häupl and Pröll. After more than nine years, a solution could be found after a so-called competence dispute that went on and on, a solution that also creates a high level of satisfaction on the part of the cultus community. I can therefore share all the arguments made by Mr Steinhauser, who stressed the commitment of Austria to find this solution. But I cannot share at all the attitude that one is now trying, so to speak, to break a solution with which everyone is satisfied. We found the solution. We have promised that we want to tackle this very quickly. The necessary preparatory work has also been carried out on the establishment of this fund. And in the end I can also say that the cultus community confirmed my satisfaction with this solution. But what I cannot understand at all is that it is criticized that different groups are treated differently here. Obviously, one does not want to note that the National Socialists destroyed the large part of the Jewish community and therefore, of course, a different treatment is necessary – and it is precisely this that derives from the commitment of Austria at different levels to restore these Jewish cemeteries on the one hand, but then, of course, to maintain them on the other. I find it quite surprising that you need to emphasize that two days after the Holocaust Memorial. I can't quite understand the criticism that Vienna is doing too little. Of course, there has been a dispute of competence, but not only between Vienna and the Federal Government, but between the federal states and the municipalities and the federal government, where the federal government has tried to find, in many discussions over the last year, a solution which was reached shortly before Christmas in the agreement of all. That there may be criticism of communities or that some communities might say that they would then be burdened by conservation – yes, that was to be expected. But still, it's a solution that has a broad base. I also believe – in order to address my colleagues Westenthaler – that, in any case, the Cultusgemeinschaft believes, the data base has been very well established, there are also relevant publications and the Cultusgemeinschaft believes that this is, as it were, a viable basis from which one assumes. At the same time, however, we have determined that the prioritisation of the projects to be financed by these funds should be carried out by an expert group or by experts nominated by the Cultusgemeinschaft. A comment on the question of Vienna: If you put into the room that Vienna has done too little, then I simply have to remember which projects – and I know that from my former activity – have promoted and supported Vienna in connection with the cultural community. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't calculate that now!]] On the one hand, this includes financing homes and similar projects, up to HAKOAH. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's quite another thing!]] – It’s something else, but it’s a performance that the city of Vienna has done. [[Abg. Scheibner: How much did the covenant contribute to the debt? - You can't turn that around now!]] At the same time, we have now found a solution where everyone, including the cultus community, agrees. I do not want to make too much use of my speaking time, so I must conclude by saying: I had the opportunity to open an exhibition two days ago because of an invitation to do so, that is, “The Children of Maison d’Izieu”. It is about the fact that 44 orphans were expelled by Klaus Barbie in 1944, the children were transported to Auschwitz, and all the children were gassed there. And on this occasion I met again the president of the Cultus Church and the ambassador of Israel, and they were both overjoyed that this long, more than nine-year-long theme of restoration and preservation of Jewish cemeteries will now have given a consensusable solution. I mean, you should respect that and not break it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30715	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30737	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Just to make one thing even clear, because you all have now done so, as if we did not agree: We agree, too. It's an improvement, that's not a question. What we are experiencing here is, of course, an essential step forward compared to the situation of the past decades, and the Israeli cultural community has not roughly agreed. However, I would like to remind you that both President Ariel Muzicant and other representatives of the Israeli Cultural Community still hope for improvement and it was not least the President himself who made proposals on how we can take the next step, from repair to maintenance. And that, I think, is a crucial point. What we decide here today is a positive signal. But it's not anymore. Eva Glavischnig started this two years ago in a joint press conference with Ariel Muzicant, and we can have a first partial success today. The “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” wrote: “For seven years, the Austrian government has been removing its obligations under the Washington Convention on the Rehabilitation and Care of Jewish Graveyards. But these perish while the graves of war are preserved in good condition." [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is also a bill that is not all right!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a completely indifferent generalization!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: When volunteers gather, Mr. Colleague, so that this is financed!]] And that is what we are on the second point, ladies and gentlemen: In 1948, under the most difficult conditions in this House, we passed a law, the War Tombs Law, with which the Republic has committed itself not only to maintain the graves, but also to maintain them. And that's been very good since then. And I'm fine with that, too, and I think that's right. [[Abg. Scheibner: You always have to play something against each other! That's incomprehensible!]] We must remember, however, that in these graves there are not only soldiers who have done their “compulsory” as a former Federal President once said somewhat unhappy, but also criminals in these graves, members of the SS, men who have committed war crimes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop dividing this!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But they also come all before the Last Judgment! They're all being sentenced at the Last Court!]] If the Republic is able to maintain graves in which criminals lie, then it is probably only right and cheap if we demand that this also apply to the victims. It is not at all clear why in 2010 we decide a law that does not allow the Jewish victims, the victims to face this justice too, and it is of course worth remembering that the graves of the ancestors of these victims can no longer be cared for – Albert Steinhauser pointed out. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now it's done anyway! What else are you yelling around? You must always polarize!]] Graveyards are monuments – according to the War Tombs Law at least the cemeteries for the soldiers of the Second World War, and by the way not only for the soldiers, but also for civilians and other victims. I have once again looked at the 1948 law, and it says that it applies to other victims. So that's our further demand; we'll stick to that. And from that point on, I do not believe that what you have said here does not necessarily mean that there is a need for a shift of competence. There is this compelling necessity because otherwise we are unable to maintain these graves. I would remind you that there are many small communities in Burgenland, in Lower Austria, which are simply unable to take care of. And I would also like to remind you that the Black Cross would very well be able to maintain these graves, too, and I think it would be a great encounter of Ariel Muzicant that he expressly emphasized this. So: What's right for the perpetrators must be cheap for the victims. We will stick to this issue. We will not leave you alone in this regard. We will bring this request back and we will continue to fight to keep these Jewish cemeteries in the same way as they deserve it in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what we've heard, please! – It always speaks the same for a quarter of an hour!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30874	Mr Prehauser. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30896	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I thank all the previous speakers for their contributions on this subject. Mr Steinhauser quoted earlier from the “standard”. If you look at this article – there's also a picture of it – then it should really stir us up and lead us into what we have to do. [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height]] We should not now listen to those churches that already know again how it is not going. Our common task now is to implement what we are forcing to help them to do so. We must act on our countries. I also think here of Salzburg, we also have a Jewish cemetery. This is a common responsibility. And a comparison, which I cannot stress: that one compares Buddhist tombs with these tasks that we have set ourselves, even more closely. Because we really have something to do with it; that's what everyone here has said quite clearly. The whole has lasted a few years – and in fact we should have done this for a very long time. Our conscience should call on us to become active today. Our common task will be – after all, we have all the anchorages in the federal states, anchorages also in the municipalities – to influence the fact that budget resources that are necessary for this – it is not only to be spent by one level, it is only a partial amount – are really loosened so that we can achieve this task as soon as possible as a common goal. The morale is so compelling for us here that we cannot afford another week or months.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30938	Mr Klubobmann has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e30959	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that a lot of things have been said today: about the commitment we have as a whole, namely all the cemeteries, to preserve all graves and to ensure conservation, and also about the historical responsibility that has rightly been rightly addressed. But, Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer, I must tell you already – and you come from Vienna and know therefore also Vienna's urban government arrangements and also the political development in Vienna –: The competence, when it came to the preservation and renovation of the Jewish cemeteries in Vienna, was clearly in the state of Vienna and also in the municipality of Vienna. And why has this been delayed for nine years? Why has it been allowed for nine years that Jewish cemeteries have continued to be exposed to decay? And that's exactly what it's all about. We have been in Vienna as FPÖ for over seven years with our Member David Lasar, but also with Mag. Harald Stefan, who was sitting in Vienna's Landtag, made applications to ensure that the city of Vienna fulfils its responsibility to renovate and restore the Jewish cemeterys – and for seven years all applications were rejected by SPÖ in Vienna by an absolute majority and with the support of SPÖ mayor Michael Häupl. So this should also be erased and assessed and questioned, because that was very unsatisfactory and it was not a glamour of the mayor Michael Häupl, whom he gave the best. There he has washed himself off his responsibility and has rather remained inactive and has allowed the cemeteries to fall further. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That is exactly what needs to be worked out here. This was not a correct situation to which Mr Mayor is responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31011	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 598 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 599 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 79.) [[21:18:31]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (400 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law on an Environmentally relevant Geodata Infrastructure of the Federal Government (Geodata Infrastructure Act – GeoDIG) (590 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31069	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Widmann. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31102	Madam President. High house! The Geodata Infrastructure Act is about keeping important geodata obvious for Austria, preparing for, for example, procedures, for planning, as well as for citizens themselves, for citizens' information. In principle, this law is very positive. We have already had very good experience in Upper Austria with the digital orientation system, in short DORIS, with which we were pioneers. You probably also know the database www.geoland.at. This law, this Geodata Infrastructure Act, is ultimately a implementation of the INSPIRE Directive. There were two main criticisms in the Committee which I would like to briefly discuss. The first was that the government template did not stand inside: This law does not require the collection or collection of new geodata. This is a very important point, because in some cases this would have entailed very high costs and, for example, the constitutional service of the country of Carinthia would have seen two-digit million amounts if it had not been written in – in the ministerial draft it was still inside. This has now been repaired, so the first criticism is not disputed, and it is ensured that there is no additional cost to the countries and to the municipalities. The second point that seemed critical to us was the data abuse by foreign data users, data queryers. The question was who would be responsible here in Austria if there was a data abuse, and which authority would be there to respond. – It was simply about implementing a recommendation from the Data Protection Council. This too has now been followed by a joint motion for a resolution by all the parliamentary parties, which also repairs this gap. That is why we can say in total that the law will become a good law, and because our initiatives and requests or demands have been implemented, the BZÖ can now also agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31143	Now comes Mr. Ing. School speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31164	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate High House! The Geodata Infrastructure Act is a law implemented on the basis of an EU directive. We are in time, it has been negotiated long enough, it has been talked about for long enough, and as it is implemented, there will be the possibility of simplified administration in practical practice. This is an important basis for us, because on the one hand, we want detailed and proper information on the situation of the environment, we want it to be made comparable in Europe, and on the other hand, we want to be able to use this data ourselves – on the one hand, through administrative services, on the other hand, quite private. It is intended to make the data available at cost. Of course, it is the meaning of the law to process and make available only existing data. Therefore, the considerations were that what is in the explanatory notes must be written in again, even in front of the law, although there is no problem, if it is a “double-folded” story. - It's supposed to be that way. The concerns of the Data Protection Council are also widely shared, I believe. It is a wish for the Government to bring the European Commission in the direction that a European directive is being drawn up that improves data protection on all these issues. Summa summarum is a good story that will cost 12 million €. The aim is to deal with the successful bodies working towards the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment, and I can only congratulate our Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany warmly on the fact that he has done this law so beautifully in a calm manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31206	Mrs Bayr's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31228	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been discussed about the Geodata Infrastructure Act per se. I also think it is very important that all three serious concerns that have been shared in advance by many could now be resolved: on the one hand, with an extra resolution on the question of data protection and the clear concentration of data on environmental purposes, on the other hand, on the other, concerning what I would like to do now with a motion for an amendment by Mr Schultes and Mr Bayr, on the other hand, by which a few editorial errors are corrected at first, by which the above-mentioned sentence makes it clear that this law does not require the collection of new data, but that it is intended to prepare existing data accordingly, that it does not create an obligation for the countries, and that, finally, it is also made clear that network services are offered efficiently and cost-effectively at one place and that other public bodies with costs can use this service and operate with these data. I think it's nice that we can all find ourselves there. I must confess: When I first met this law, I didn't think it'd be so intense and so long in complexity, but, as I said, it's good that way. I think we have a fair solution, a broad solution and a solution that will solve all the problems. – I am delighted with a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31266	The amendment which has just been tabled by Mrs Bayr has been explained in the cornerstones, is being duplicated due to the extent and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31435	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31457	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The relevant Geodata Infrastructure Act is known to create and expand a geodata infrastructure in the federal area. This will make it possible to achieve easier and better access and more effective use for citizens and administrative authorities – especially in the field of geodata, an area that is not only enjoying greater popularity on a private basis but also becoming increasingly interesting in the area of administrative authorities. However, a problem that is found in this government template, but for which there is no solution in the law, is the problem of the tension of the use of geodata in connection with data protection regulations – an approach that has already been addressed by Mr Schultes. The situation is problematic, especially if the operator or the operator who puts these geodata on the network does not have an Austrian company headquarters or a Austrian branch, but offers these geodata from abroad. Here, there are often almost insurmountable difficulties for those who want to make data protection complaints in this respect or also to cause changes or deletions of data that have already been published to enforce it. It was only at the meeting of the Data Protection Council on 14.1. this year that a case of a Romanian provider of geodata was explained in detail, and it was found that it was almost impossible for Austrian citizens to enforce their rights at the data protection level vis-à-vis a foreign service provider of a geodata internet operation. I am therefore entitled to make the following request on the basis of this circumstance: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that this proposal closes a gap in this Geodata Infrastructure Act, and I believe that this is an important and necessary step to make a significant improvement in data protection access even in the sense of potentially affected people. I would like to invite you to step up this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31514	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31562	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31584	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The procedure under the Geodata Infrastructure Act is in itself very positive. Mr Bayr has already mentioned that this is a very complex matter, because these also have relatively technical issues to solve well and all interfaces must also be adequately treated. Above all, it is important also for us that this amendment has clarified some open issues. The resolution is also important because the Privacy Directive 95/46/EC currently does not provide that data protection applies to companies operating abroad and putting data on our territory into the network – and this is possible with a change when they are enforced. The Federal Government must, of course, make its way accordingly on the basis of this resolution which we are taking today, and also call for it in Brussels. However, I would like to mention a few more examples, because the question arises: Geodata, what's that all about? – The soil and land use, as well as health, safety, the supply industry and public services – for example, waste water, waste management, as well as energy supply, environmental monitoring –, agricultural facilities and aquaculture facilities, production, industrial facilities, atmospheric conditions, meteorological conditions, biogeographical regions, habitats, biotopes and energy sources – as I said, a very broad spectrum, Mr. Federal Minister: actually a very large overview of all environmental and very much environmental planning data. For us and for Austria, it will also be very important in the implementation that these data will then also be used profitably, actively – that is the challenge – and we will see how, in what way and how transparent the data are and will also be made available. Let me give you an example: We are in the process of raising the entire sewerage systems in the wastewater sector. This is also an important issue for us in the long term in the field of wastewater disposal, and we – of course the municipalities, the wastewater associations, the federal states as part of their activities and the Water Management Commission – are accompanying this programme with various funding programmes. This is just an example, a small section, Mr. Federal Minister: The merger, maintenance and use of these data are very important to us, so we will give our consent to this proposal, but also to the compromise. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31629	It is Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31650	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers said: It is admittedly a very bulky matter, so thank you very much for devoting yourself to the subject and for trying together to bring up a proper law here. It goes as it is so well called for the implementation of the directive on the creation of a spatial infrastructure, also called INSPIRE Directive. A first objective of this INSPIRE Directive is to improve the availability, quality, organisation, accessibility and use of geodata. This will include, in particular, the requirements of environmental protection in Community policies – this is another objective. There should be a transparent usability of geodata: transparent for citizens, for science, for the economy, for administration, and thus also for the improvement of the value-added potential through geodata. On the responsibilities of the Federal or Country: In federal competence, only the data are available from the Federal Offices; the countries must then adopt appropriate national laws in order to make the geodata available at national and municipal level. Only the provisions concerning the restriction of access to geodata are based on material competence, and certain public data bodies are covered by this draft on the basis of civil law competence. It is also important that the geodata can be better used both nationally and internationally, so it is necessary to create so-called metadata, which is why the geodata are interoperable, so to speak, compatible with each other, so that they can be used in good German – internationally, supranationally. Furthermore, these geodata on network services are available to the public under certain conditions, if this does not conflict with data protection. That's what we do with this law. – Thank you very much for your approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31691	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31712	Madam President. Federal Minister! Everything has already been said about the geodata infrastructure, so I can be very brief. As mayor, I am pleased that we here, in the area of these networks that will be available to us in the future, will come to a European level, because the communities are particularly required – the waste water problem has been addressed, but also the management charge. We often need to rethink in order to build a modern network also within the municipalities – this is of course connected with financial use. We will have to carry this financial commitment on the basis of the need for us to be able to use this data ourselves or to offer it to citizens, in a modern form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31744	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31766	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law is particularly important for environmental policy, not only for Austrian environmental policy, but also, as has already been said, for European environmental policy. In the future, there are important data that can be queryed, different geodata: At least I hope many cards will be recorded, there will be altitude data, terrain models, but satellite images will be available in the future – this is just a small extract of a huge palette that will be offered in the future. This information is important for all citizens and is also accessible to them, especially for the administration and for the economy. I think this data is also necessary and important for the political parties and for policy in general, and I hope that we can pursue an even better environmental policy based on this data. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this law, I think it might have been better if we had chosen another title: Instead of ‘Geodata Infrastructure Law’, ‘Environmental and Geodata Infrastructure Law’, I think, it would have been the more appropriate name for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31799	Mr Mayer has now come up with a request for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31820	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We live in an information society and collect data and information and make it available to a broad public is a growing sector. Harmonization and standardisation are in the foreground of this directive – it has also been mentioned a lot about what is contained in the directive and what this law must do. I would like to take a brief look at one point. The existing data should be available mainly through the use of network services. My colleague from Upper Austria has presented the successful DORIS model and has already arrived shortly thereafter. I would like to add the following: Three employees have been working in the Land Service Center for two years, so that you can easily and user-friendlyly access the data online. And if you know that there are 60,000 calls every day, you can see that in Upper Austria we are very good on the data highway – but also with www.geoland.at is already a transnational project online. Finally, I would like to say that I also regard this Geodata Infrastructure Act as very good in the sense of a modern citizen service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31863	Mr Steier has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31912	Madam President. Federal Minister! The so-called INSPIRE Directive is an instrument to simplify access and use of geodata for citizens, administration and the economy. – As previously stated, geodata includes all data with direct or indirect reference to a particular location or geographical area. Using existing data structures, geodata from EU Member States should be made interoperable and cross-border. The Geodata Infrastructure Act implements this INSPIRE Directive into Austrian federal law and provides framework for the development and expansion of a national spatial data infrastructure. After even open questions have been settled and implemented before among the political groups, one can actually agree to this law. I thank you in advance for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31943	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31964	Ladies and gentlemen! The networking, which this law strengthens and provides, is also to be welcomed, because environmental issues do not stop at borders, but concern all of us. A uniform processing and accessibility of administrative data will ensure that things such as maps, plans or aerial images can be found by anyone and can also be used – partly with restrictions. It has also been said which areas are affected in practice. It will be interesting for users, for example for people who write diplomas, but also for landscape planners and architects. However, health data are also likely to be retrieved. For example, one will be able to see which diseases occur particularly frequently in which region. That is why this law, I believe, is a major challenge and is an essential basis for research, but also for policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e31994	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. No final word was requested by the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 400 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues and colleagues tabled an amendment which refers to the amendment of Sections 2, 3, 6, 7, 9, 14, 15 and 22. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Schultes, Bayr, colleagues. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this amendment to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier, Schultes, Herbert, Dr. Pirklhuber, Mag. Widmann, colleagues and colleagues on the competence of the Austrian Data Protection Commission (DSK). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 80.) [[21:42:31]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (401 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Cross-border Framework (591, e.g.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (494 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol on pollutant release and shipment registers (592 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32077	We now come to points 11 and 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32104	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! – Mr Federal Minister, as we have already announced in committee, we will not give this request our approval. We have strong concerns here and believe that this proposal is not far enough. We from the Freedom Party have therefore filed a complaint against Slovakia and against the Czech Republic to the European Court of Human Rights, because we believe that what the Czech Republic has given to Austria in the field of nuclear energy, namely with regard to temelÃn and the construction of nuclear reactor blocks 3 and 4 or with regard to a planned border-near nuclear waste storage in recent years, cannot actually be done to maintain the friendly relations in the previous form. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we had to experience a hearing in Vienna a few months ago, in turn, with regard to an extension of a nuclear power plant, namely the nuclear power station in Mochovce. We have had to see that thousands of signatures have been collected, namely as a participation in an EIA procedure, which is to be considered cross-border. It is now true that as Austria, this cross-border procedure does not give us any party status at all, but only a participation as a participant. That is to say, it has a legal consequence that Austria cannot be regarded here as a party and therefore has no legal status. That is, we do not get any notice against which we could then take an appeal. We have therefore called for a complaint to be filed according to Council Directive 85/337 of 27 July 1985 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the marketing of certain products for human consumption. An environmental impact assessment must be carried out on June 1985 in accordance with EU directives. It was quite incomprehensible for us that the Federal Government took part in this EIA and thus demonstrated its support for an illegal EU EIA procedure. Mr Federal Minister, you told us at the time that the Czech Republic had already signed a contract in 2005. I picked out these documents, I got them here. The fact is that what you have addressed is a purely strategic environmental audit procedure. This means that planning intentions can be assessed here, but, as has been said, no party position is granted to us. That means that the hearing at Mochovce actually became a Farce. For a farce, we don't give up liberals. We are the only party in Austria who no longer wants to be allowed to do so. We have therefore brought an action before the European Court of Human Rights against Mochovce, against Temelín, against Slovakia and against the Czech Republic, and we are eager to see what it will be like in the future. It will be shown whether we are finally so far or whether the Federal Government has the courage to demand that a party position is actually granted us in an EU-worthy directive procedure. That would be my wish, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32149	Mr Hörl has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32171	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! We today approve an international protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment. This was agreed at the Kiev conference. 37 States have already signed this Protocol. The relevant EU Directive is already being implemented in Austria. The Environment Committee therefore recommended the approval of this Protocol. The environmental law in force is also to apply in the neighbouring countries, in the sense of the environment, the protection of air, water and fires, which cannot be kept at the national border, but also because it is essential for our economy to ensure that environmental costs and costs are as equal as possible everywhere. But there are still blatant shortcomings here. We are among those countries in the world who have the best environmental protection, but who also have the highest environmental burdens and constraints. Neighbor countries such as the Czech Republic or Slovakia do not take this exactly – we have just heard it. This ratification means strengthening the strategic environmental audit, the SUP, in the international context. The advantage for Austria is that we, as a party, have better rights of cooperation. The aim of this Protocol is to make our high level of protection of the environment cross-border. Every commitment is worth it. Thank you, Minister of State, for that. Austria is a leader in environmental protection. The legal regulations ensure multi-layered: the interests of nature, the protection of the environment and the hearing of parties and many others as well. In most cases, we have the EIA via water law in various environmental laws, and although in these complex procedures parties – including NGOs and experts – are heard enough and most often several times, we also provide environmental lawyers. The procedures are getting longer and more complicated. From the point of view of environmental interests, we are therefore at the highest level, even internationally seen. You, Federal Minister, are fighting for far-reaching measures. Their goals are high and respectable. Nevertheless, you don't have it easy, you and your bet are often wrongly criticized. Your hard work, your expertise, your courage and your commitment will be very much thanked. However, those who are still too low in environmental protection should bear in mind that nothing can be solved with pure “green” and other world-enhancing dreams, but nothing can be solved either. The challenges of our time are unemployment and the government budget. If we want to create jobs and pass on our state functionally to other generations, we must also ensure that economic growth is started. Therefore, location policy is important and thus the creation of international competitiveness of our home country. I think it is time to consider further legal toughenings in environmental protection – including economic difficulties – at the expense of the site. In the sense of the location, I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to act with caution on the following projects, such as the IG-Air, the National Water Management Plan, the Quality Objective Regulation and what is still in place here, and not to allow any further economic difficulties. Employment for our people, the well-being of fellow citizens is central to our policy. I would also ask you to support this. Thank you, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32238	Mr Pirklhuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32259	Mr Hörl, your Stakkato for less regulation in the area of environment shows your views, which express here that you are not at last up to date. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Of course, because good environmental policy is the optimal location policy because it strengthens those economic sectors that include future technologies. And especially in a tourist country... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] They come from Tyrol, yes, what to sell You in the tourism sector? [[Abg. Hörl: This is green sulphur!]] They say that this is “green sulphur. ” Well, the landscape of Tyrol is beautiful, the mountains are clearly a magnet. But you know, just as I do, how important it is that there are no floods there, that the protection of the valleys is ensured, that the air is kept clean, because otherwise the guests will no longer come to Tyrol when there is Smog when avalanches and walls come down and all this is impossible. That's easy. [[Abg. Hörl: This is my home, and I love my home!]] Yeah, it's okay. Where does the concern come from about these two state agreements that we are discussing here? – In itself, it is a protocol belonging to the Espoo Convention, and this agreement was operated by WHO and OECD. Originally, it was directed towards health. The European Union has actually negotiated it at a level of the already existing strategic environmental review. And there you can be for it now or not for it. Only: The problem here, Mr Federal Minister – and therefore we will not give our consent to this state agreement – is that Austria is currently massively sparse. We cannot, at present, implement the strategic environmental review in Austria as it would be necessary, quite specifically because there are no plans in some areas. Example: Lack of commitment to an overall transport plan. Furthermore, public participation is not sufficient. There are no sufficient rights, we do not believe they are guaranteed. And above all, one thing: The European Union's letter of formal notice of 8 December 1994. October 2009 clearly states that a total of 15 paragraphs of the current EU Directives are not implemented in Austria. Mr Federal Minister, I ask you once again to make a statement on how far the implementation is already in progress and what measures have already been taken here – including by the other ministries involved here – by the countries et cetera. Mr Neubauer! We share your criticism of the Czech Republic, Mochovce and Slovakia. Only: Your argument shows one of the following: It is necessary to implement the European directives correctly; You said that in your closing statement. Therefore, it is only quite necessary to implement, from these conclusions, an efficient European environmental policy in the most cross-border way. And that means running an active European policy rather than renationalising and pooling things – that will not bring us forward. It is about actively addressing these cross-border problems. The country Oberösterreich has been active here several times. It is a fact that the Czech Republic has not sufficiently taken these EU rules into account and has therefore failed to act. That's what we've been fighting. Federal Minister! We will give our consent to the Protocol on Pollution Release and Transfer Registers. The Protocol is, in fact, a precursor to the Environmental Information Act or the November of December 2009, which has already been implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32325	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32347	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I think that we should all be aware that the SUP is not only necessary but absolutely necessary, as it will make international cooperation on environmental and health-related cross-border projects more effective and transparent and will also create better control possibilities. Special areas of application for the SUP will be spatial and transport planning, waste, water and energy, as well as tourism. As I repeat, we all know that we have a duty towards our descendants to pay attention to an intact environment. This SUP will take another small step towards meeting our responsibilities towards future generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32377	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32398	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker were right, it would really be all nice and grievance. But unfortunately this is not the case! You know, Mr Minister, that we should finally implement Articles 9 and 3 of the Aarhus Convention, because, like the SUP's current regulation, there is still the problem that citizens can comment, but have no legal means at all to take action against the sluggish procedure in a SUP and to achieve a positive outcome. The legal instrument is partly toothless because the citizens lack essential elements and essential instruments. Therefore, my appeal that you will at last also renew or improve the Aarhus Convention in Articles 9 and 3. Now to the SUP Directive: In our view, this is also insufficient, because the requirement for a Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment is that a plan should be drawn up, and as we know, it is often lacking that a proper plan is drawn up. In addition, this SUP directive has been very fragmented and inadequately implemented in Austria. We have 15 different paragraphs, different rules in this directive. In the specific case – in Lower Austria – it is just cockbled. There was an initial project for Traisental Street S 34, which was subject to a Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment. The result corresponded to the wish: Pröll was allowed to build. In the meantime, because the Asfinag has less money, a savings variant had to be developed, and the route was now shared. In the second project, it fits again after the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, although the results would actually have to contradict the first SUP procedure. This clearly shows that you are turning and turning it around as you would like, in practice, simply go beyond EU law and run the risk of a complaint procedure by the Commission. I can't do that! It is not all right that there are legal violations, infringements of EU directives, simply pushing through projects. The summaries would have to be to carry out preliminary procedures in road projects, to carry out proper Strategic Environmental Impact Assessments, where data collection is really taken seriously. Finally, there should also be a ban on those road projects which do not meet the criteria laid down by the Ministry itself. It is the summit of contradiction that projects often do not even meet their own criteria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32438	Mr Mag. Widmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32459	Madam President. High house! If you build roads in Austria, you certainly don't need this protocol, because this protocol is: Protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Cross-border Framework. So this is about cross-border projects. This Protocol was signed by 37 States and the EU. This is not about the EIA in the Czech Republic, but about the fact that we ourselves are pioneers in this field and other countries allowing us to participate. So that's two pairs of shoes. As far as Mochovce, Temelín and the nuclear waste warehouses that have a cross-border impact are concerned, I am entirely of the opinion of the Greens and the FPÖ, namely that Austria has not been sufficiently involved in this and that the relevant EU rules have not yet been transposed into national law. But here we are dealing, as has been said, with the EIA in Austria, where we are giving other countries the opportunity to participate. That's an essential difference! I think it is right that we do so, because our goal is to protect the environment and to maintain and to protect human health as best as possible. What is the content of the SUP? – It is about the production of the environmental report, it is about involving the public at a cross-border level, and it is also about ensuring that the results of the SUP will ultimately also be involved and involved in the programme that has already been discussed. I therefore do not fully understand the argument of the FPÖ and the Greens because it is a step in the right direction. It is not the yellow of the egg, but it is a step in the right direction to show that Austria is a pioneer. If we ask the Czech Republic to participate properly, but do not do so itself by pouring it into national law, then the Czech Republic will not understand. That would be the same as if we were asking the Czech Republic to refrain from nuclear energy, but it would itself operate a nuclear milestone – which we do not, on the contrary, we rely on renewable energy and therefore also have a moral right to participate cross-border. Finally, since my speaking time is already coming to an end, another sentence to the Committee on the Environment: At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there were a total of 12 agenda items. Three of them have come from the government, all of them have been decided. The other nine agenda items were not about kinker slicks, but they were important things,for example, the Climate Protection Act was about energy efficiency, climate protection in general, the IG air in connection with the exploitation of historic vehicles, the administrative reform, the genetic engineering freedom of feed, Euratom and so on. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Climate Protection Act!]] All these points were not a proper discussion either by the ÖVP or by the SPÖ, and ultimately they were not worth a decision either. I believe that it is a fundamental requirement – and this should be said here in Parliament – that the government groups, as we have put it in the Geodata Infrastructure Act, should act in such a way that the government has responded to good opposition proposals and that we have adopted a unanimous decision, should continue to do so in the future in the Committee on the Environment, above all in the matter of materials that really concern the future of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32496	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32517	Thank you, Mr President. High house! On the comments made at the outset concerning nuclear power projects in the Czech Republic and Slovakia: The position of the Austrian Federal Government is clear. For us, the use of nuclear energy is not a meaningful energy generation, nor is it in relation to climate protection. It does not fulfil the climate protection obligations. In this sense, we have also expressed our views on the Mochovce project. The European Commission is the guardian of the laws and treaties and must insist on their compliance, as well as on the environmental impact assessment laws of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Commission is doing the same. What I was concerned about in the case of Mochovce in Slovakia was that, apart from legal regulations, the concerns of Austrian citizens and the Austrian citizens' initiatives in this respect are taken into account and that citizens do not have to go where the hearing takes place, namely in Slovakia. I have successfully worked to ensure that the hearing takes place in Vienna, so that all the concerns could come to the table here. That's how it all happened. There were representatives of citizens' initiatives, there were several women and men present who expressed their concerns and all this was taken on record. Before I engage in legal pranks and disputes, I am concerned that all their concerns should be expressed openly and that the Slovak operators or authorities must present themselves with this discussion. That's what happens, I'm standing for it, and that's part of our conception. On these two protocols, which are ratified: The content of the SUP protocol has already been mentioned. The aim of this Protocol is to ensure the high level of environmental protection including health. In order to achieve this objective, a strategic environmental assessment should be carried out in the preparation of certain plans and programmes, for example in the case of spatial planning or waste management plans. This Protocol sets out a clear and transparent procedure for both national and cross-border SUP procedures. Key steps are to draw up an environmental report to ensure that participation the public and the environmental authorities are assured and the results are then taken into account when adopting the plan in the programme. The second protocol to us, that on the pollutant emissions and shipment registers, is also aimed at improving public access to information through the establishment of a country-wide pollutant release and shipment register. This will also ensure a contribution to the prevention and reduction of environmental pollution. We have already implemented the law directly through the regulation on a European pollutant release and shipment register at European level. In addition, it was important for Parliament to adopt the Environmental Information Act – an important contribution on the way there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32565	Mr Stauber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32587	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we also approve the protocol on pollutant release and shipment registers negotiated in the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. Its legal basis is found in the so-called Aarhus Convention, which deals with access to information, public participation in decision-making procedures and access to courts in environmental matters and has already been ratified by Austria in 2005. Since the European Community itself is a party to this Protocol, a separate EC Regulation has already been adopted which provides for this register by the European Commission. We already collect the necessary data for this register in Austria. Austria is very exemplary in this matter and even goes beyond the requirements laid down in the EC Regulation in some areas. For example, the EU requires only a five-year period of data retention. – We in Austria have a ten-year deadline. This makes Austria stricter than it should be according to its international obligations, and that is, I think, well. We are showing that we are doing our best international commitments. How does it look with the costs? – While this does not involve expenditure for the federal states, the Federal Government will incur costs of about €80 000 for the development and implementation of the database. The annual update of the data and the maintenance of the database will cause approximately €10 000 of costs. Finally, I would like to suggest in this context whether, for efficiency and cost reasons, it would not be useful to link various areas of already existing environmental databases accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32627	Now comes Mr Mag. That's right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32650	Madam President. Estimated Minister! In the short time available to me I can only deal with a few points. To my colleague from Tyrol: Mr Hörl, I can already tell you that environmental protection is in the most immediate sense human protection. Facette tourism has already been addressed, so I would appeal to you that you will not treat our Environment Minister so much in the future. I don't want to come to his aid, but before he got the sweat back on his forehead. – I repeat: Environmental protection is human protection. Second Facet: Mrs. Dr. Moser, you mentioned correctly that there are problems with the Aarhus Convention. The three pillars are not all fully respected by us in Austria. We have already talked about the third pillar, access to courts, in committee. The Minister also told us at the time that there is a study in this regard. I got this study from BOKU Vienna. It is very extensive, and I have also worked it through very carefully – not every side, but the introduction and also the conclusions very precisely. You can really understand very carefully what is possible in the future. Mr Minister, I would also appeal to you that, even if our group agrees today, we are going in this right direction. On behalf of Mr Neubauer, who first formulated the rejection for his group, but now is not here, I would like to say: In fact, Mr Widmann said everything about the BZÖ Group. [[Abg. Scheibner: How always!]] I understood the argument. I hope that if you say this to Mr Neubauer, he will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32685	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is the rapporteur asking for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol on the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Cross-border Framework in 401 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, according to which the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Treaty. 2 Z 3 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request, the French language version and the Russian language version of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49. 2 The Federal Constitutional Act is to be announced by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Protocol on pollutant release and shipment registers in 494 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request, the French and Russian language version of this State Treaty in accordance with Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act by making them available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. [[22:11:41]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 823/A(E) by Mr Martina Schenk, colleague and colleagues on the preparation of a burnout study (521 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32779	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32807	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is burn-out? – Burnned out, more than a fashion appearance; it is now very often diagnosed. According to estimates – the applicant has already noted it in her application – about 1.5 million people are expected to be affected. If you're talking about burn-out, you're talking about a serious illness, physical, psychological exhaustion, and often quite different symptoms – and that's the danger to this disease! It ranges from depression over tension and exhaustion to panic attacks, anything can be possible, and this disease may occur in quite different variants. The problem is – and this is what many say – that this disease is very sluggish. It would be important that we not only have enough data, but that we also have a working world that encounters overload accordingly. – This is especially true of people, men and women who are particularly committed to the profession, who are particularly involved, who may not be able to dissociate themselves and are therefore more exposed to burnout. I agreed with the applicant Martina Schenk that we should assign this request to the Health Committee in order to check what we are talking about, namely: Is there enough data here in Austria? Is there gender specific data? Is there anything else here in the field of research or in relation to the fact that we should collect more data? In this sense, I am also in favour of referring this request from my colleague, Mr Donk, to the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32843	Mrs Schittenhelm has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32865	Madam President. High house! Well, at 10:15 p.m., there would be a burnout study here in the House. We would have done it immediately, and our colleague, Rasinger, could have done so immediately. The result would be highly interesting – but not only because of the duration of time, but also because of the variety of emotions that have gone up. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is: Burn-out is a common disease, we know. The fact is that in Austria we have no accurate data on this – neither about the causes nor about the number. The last study on this was carried out in 2006. It speaks of 1.5 million affected women and men in Austria. The dark number is of course unknown. That is, we need cause research, we need data and figures to actually find solutions, and we also need measures. This is also the aim of a study to be carried out, a request that is now being made to the Health Committee, and this study will then call on the Federal Minister for Health to act. It's a necessity. The European Commission has made a study and has provided the data. 20 billion euros will be invested each year for the treatment of those affected, and we do not know what economic damage we still have, apart from personal and professional damage to each and every one. That is why we, of course, also support this request, the assignment to the Health Committee and, ultimately, the fact that this study is being carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32913	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32934	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the grounds of the request, applicants address a core problem in our society, namely the multiple burden on women through child rearing, household care, family care and the desire or need to have success in working life outside the home. As we all know, this disease not only affects executives, not just managers, not just careerists, but above all women with children who are working with children who struggle between the tasks they are dedicated to. Men are also affected, but as we know from experience, women are still more burdened in this respect. Unfortunately, we are still living at a time when benefits that are not paid will not be regarded as such. By this gross misevaluation and this false appreciation, Unfortunately, most of all, women are not covered by the enormous benefits they provide as mothers and housewives every day for society. That's something I want to bring in here. The value of the benefit provided in the family is not even discussed here in Austria, let alone raised. In our neighbouring country of Germany, surveys have shown that unpaid services provided in private households correspond to so-called household production, such as gross value added in the areas of trade, hospitality and transport. We liberals are the only ones who have repeatedly shown this problem and have also put in place measures, such as the introduction of child money. The fact that the birth rate in Austria is one of the lowest in Europe compared to the other countries in Europe indicates that something must have gone wrong. It turns out that the overall social climate, which prevails here, does not encourage women, nor does it give them the opportunity or the feeling that they can have quiet children. They can all remember the women's minister's statement that it is a danger that it is a trap if you accept the housework or care of the children or if you are dedicated to the tasks that some women even make head office. – In our opinion, this is a false signal! Instead of thinking about what one could do so that it would not harm women if they had children and were to put off multiple burdens, our women's minister recommends looking for value creation only outside the family. This makes it a prime example of the implementation of left ideologies for me and also for my group. – There is, of course, an ideology behind it, starting from – I have already said this here at this speaker’s desk – from Lenin, Horkheimer, Marcuse, Adorno, from the so-called 68s movement, which of course wants to defame and destroy the values we hold high – family, fatherland, motherhood. We believe that with pseudofeminist activities such as re-densifications of the German anthem, I-I as well as robbing and robbing people cannot be diverted from the true interests and true problems of women. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] Therefore, studies showing the multiple burden on women, such as the Burnout Syndrome study, are to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e32996	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33017	Madam President. High house! I want to get away from the stove and get back to the subject. This study should also be supported from a green point of view. We are also in favour of this being dealt with in the Health Committee. We all know how my previous speakers have emphasized: Burn-out affects more and more people. More and more people of working age are affected by burn-out. Many of us know people who suffer from it, some of us may be themselves affected. And especially supportive is the fact that the gender-specific aspects of this phenomenon are also to be specifically examined in a study. Although some still have problems with the word ‘gender’, I think it is very nice that this is carried across fractions. The reasons for the burn-out of women have already been mentioned several times. Very often it is just the multiple burden of women, very often it is the feeling of inadequacy that leads to stress, because it is no longer possible at all levels. That means that there are very specific things that concern women. I'd like to warn you, though: It is important to be careful that this study does not become a symptom treatment and that one does not look at the background. The background is where it becomes politically interesting for us, where it is ill in the system and where women burn out because the system has shortcomings in the equal treatment of men and women. To do this, we need to list the whole range of inequalities – we know – on the labour market and in the family as well. This should not only be dealt with in the Health Committee. For example, we have recently discussed an application on women's health in the Committee, a request from the Greens on the subject of ‘vocational diseases of women and their specific effects’. There are many women who are not only subject to psychological stress in their working environment but also have physical stress, such as pedagogists in kindergartens or teachers who get tinnitus or hearing damage, but whose diseases are not counted as occupational diseases. In this case, the Committee has received great approval, as so often has been the case – there was also a good discussion – but unfortunately, as so often in the case of good opposition requests, the request has been postponed. I now argue that this issue of equality, namely another step towards equality, will not be postponed. That is why we should look at the reasons behind it very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33062	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33084	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning I would like to say that I am glad that this House is not only fighting but also working in this House. Today's five-party proposal, which has been dealt with and decided in this way in the Committee, is a good step in the right direction. I am pleased that, in particular, the government parties are going to step down from their high Ross and support meaningful opposition requests, such as in this case the BZÖ's request for a burnout study, and address them. This proposal covers at least 1.5 million people in Austria who suffer from burn-out or are in danger of suffering from it. Why do we need this study? – We need this study in order to be really serious about the problem solution and to be able to develop solutions with current figures and data. As far as the figures are concerned, I would like to take a brief look at my country of origin, the Styria, and to show which dimensions of mental diseases can be obtained for those affected and, above all, for their families. I consciously speak not only of those concerned but also of the relatives. Above all, Parents who are affected will then no longer be able to take sufficient care of their children and give them the emotional support they need. And this also leads the children to some sort of reconciliation, depression, bad notes and, in the future, and final consequence, the feeling of burnout also arises among the children. Now go back to the Styria and to the numbers I want to address. According to the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse, there were 150,000 sick days due to mental illness in 2005. In 2008 it was already 280 000 sick days. This rise is terrifying, ladies and gentlemen. Nevertheless, a mentality still exists according to the motto “Sickness is who breaks a leg”. Everything you don't see doesn't exist. We must fight this ignorance, we must face you. However, we must not be content – Mrs Schwentner has already mentioned this – to raise only the state of the state, because this alone does not bring the people concerned forward. For the BZÖ, health policy is primarily a functioning prevention. And there's still enough to do. For example, we need to start in schools with the introduction of more school psychologists, so that mental diseases can already be detected and suffocated in an approach. After that, work continues, where stress prevention is usually called into question. But not only stress, but also, as Graz economist Lisbeth Jericho writes in her book, the alienation from the work related to mobbing and bossing at the workplace can cause the burnout process, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the number of sick days I mentioned earlier, then every representative of the people will keep the laugh in his neck, because this causes an enormous loss, not only for the sick, but above all for the Austrian economy. Especially in times of economic crisis, as is the case now, we really cannot afford to do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whether women are more affected by burn-out than men, the opinions are dissociating. However, I have explicitly pointed out in my request that this should be worked out in the study. In particular, women are potentially at risk of burn-out not only by their employment, but also by family benefits, by child training, by home care, by caring for them. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank all the political groups who support this request for a burnout study. We at the BZÖ will continue to work to make an important contribution to Austrian health policy with constructive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33139	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33160	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is undisputed that we all have the greatest interest in knowing more about this new disease Burn-out, but above all – and that seems to me to be the most essential; Mr Schwentner has referred to it – to combat the causes behind it. Mrs. Unterlander! The fact that I am in contradiction with you will probably prove to be clear to you, because it is precisely the retention of gender stereotypes expectations, of social role cliques and the lack of out-of-house care facilities, not only in infancy, but also later in care, especially these factors represent additional strains, mainly for women. That is why it is about breaking up clichés here, changing role behaviour and role patterns, so that we really have an added value in the overall society and people can share equal rights in society. It is also an added value for men if they do this social policy work because they are also allowed to experience emotional developments that they have not been able to experience so far. The gender medicine aspect in this study is also important because the symptoms are also different. We know this from the heart attack and other health risks that affect men and women differently. I believe that this is also an essential aspect of burn-out. But what seems to me particularly important – I would like to point out briefly a contribution by the Federal Councillor Eibinger at a conference in Graz – is already this presentism, which is partly demanded by the economy. That means you always have to be present. It is terrifying when 42 percent of people report going to work sick. On the one hand, it is the obligation to the other colleagues because there is no replacement because otherwise the work remains. In the case of the workers, it is mainly the fear of losing the job through the sick, i.e. through the illness. We are also required, and the economy is also required to take measures, preventive measures. The cost to the economy has already been raised here. I think prevention is for the people, it's for the companies, and it's for the whole economy. I hope that, in addition to the health aspects, we will also come here to the root discussion and, above all, to the fight against causes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33206	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. No final word is required on the part of the reporting. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 521 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept the motion for a resolution 823/A(E) to the Committee on Health. [[22:30:26]] 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/3 (III-30/516 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33258	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33291	Madam President. High house! This Court of Auditors report deals with Austrian Research Centers GmbH. In June 2007, then Minister of Transport and current Federal Chancellor Faymann commissioned the Court of Auditors to take a look at this GmbH, which should actually conduct research agendas, and to review its conduct. A report has come out which has made a very destructive judgment. In particular, when one knows that the Court of Auditors has repeatedly used a very diplomatic way of expression in its reports, it can be seen that there is a very specific record of freedom of expression here. There was no overall strategy. There was a bloating of the form of organization. There was no business orientation. First, the whole thing was transformed into a holding company, then reunited into a research company. Wrong financial planning, twice as high personnel costs as comparable research companies in Germany and in the overhead area alone 170 to 200 people, who were mostly more involved in each other and themselves, than to deal with research matters. The Court of Auditors' judgment, which expressed it, was poor monitoring and no internal revision. Now, through the new Federal Government and by Federal Minister Doris Bures, there is a new management that gives more attention to the field of research and business. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] - Please! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where support and success are to be honoured, you have to give the right place. Above all, this is now an important factor for research. I still wish this GmbH much success, because sense of responsibility has now been absorbed. This is beneficial in contrast to the irresponsible transformation of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33350	Now comes Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33371	Dear President! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the early days of colleague Themessl, we have heard full-bodiedly that the Freedom Party is the party that mercilessly attacks the abuses. That's what I'm saying: Aha, but start. Please enter your own rows and do not press both eyes here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The report by the Court of Auditors on the ARC and the Committee meeting in November showed mercilessly the double morale and threat that the liberals deceive and deceive the electorate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Haider.]] The third national council president of the self-proclaimed Saubermann party was in need of explanation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] After Dr. A few months later, Mar tin Graf was found in an ARC subsidiary for him, whose Group Managing Director – what a coincidence! – his former party colleague, former Minister of Defense Krünes. [[Abg. May. Stefan: There are also black boards!]] Dr. Graf led the business of this subsidiary until the merger with the parent group in early summer 2006 and was subsequently to receive a contract for another activity in the ARC Group. And now it's gonna be interesting. In July 2006, Dr. Graf signed this new contract with effectiveness 1. ==References== ==References== October 2006, we know, there was something?- Oh, my God! - National Council election. This is actually the moral problem that Mr. Graf already knew at the time of his signature in July 2006 that he knew after the National Council election on 1 January 2006. October, not even three months later, would return to the National Council. In the meantime, he was fixed, both on the national and regional constituencies. So in knowing that he would return to the National Council, he concluded this new treaty with one – say and write! – 36-month notice of termination. ARC Group Managing Director was at that time his beating “Olympia”-College Dr. Hans Rinnhofer. A few days later, after the National Council election, Dr. Graf told his employer that he had his mandate – what a surprise! – will be accepted. Dr Graf explained to us at the committee meeting that he would have proposed two alternatives to further employment, but finally the agreement was only possible. One agreed on a proud 220 000 € deal, which corresponds to about half of its 36-month notice protection. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] But what is even worse is the payout and acceptance of a one-off premium of €50,000, as it is so beautiful, for the remuneration of additional functions within the ARC group. This procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is expressly not regulated by contract and therefore unfair! A fine basket money for a representative of the “little man ” party and the“ little woman. ” [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who decided?]] Finally, Dr. Then dig the bad conscience, and he later donated, almost to his own reinwashing, the vast majority of the received sum. However, the fact is that three months later, in the knowledge of returning to the National Council, Dr. Graf negotiated a 36-month unannounceability contract, had it replaced and settled for good, and also accepted a totally unjustified premium of €50,000. [[Abg. May. Stefan: How does such a thing work?]] That's what I call double-moral, double-duty and free-lance friendly economy par excellence. That's a mockery of every description. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In this situation, please do not point to others, because if you point one finger at another, then three fingers point to you. [[making the corresponding gesture]] – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33477	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33499	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Lettenbichler, I think he is the colleague of the ÖVP. Mrs. Lapp! This report also included the topic of railway project Semmering-basistunnel. I think it would have been a failure if you had been dealing with it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] That's what's going on. You may rather understand than the report on the ARC. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: It hurts!]] The apparent bill, which Mr Lettenbichler has now held with the Third President, is all a skim, I would like to say. Mr Lettenbichler, you said it yourself: Dr. Graf was managing director of a subsidiary of ARC and not head of the holding company. You won't believe that he's taken all of this to himself. I guess others were responsible for this. As far as I am aware, the first managing director of the holding company was a certain Mr Gornik, and he is more to be assigned to the left half of the empire. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] So, please, tell yourself the next time! In his responsibility in his subsidiary, Dr. Graf has achieved all the goals that were set to him: both the reduction of overpayments and the reduction of personnel required. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dr. Graf was in the administrative daughter. The fact that parallel administrations were then set up in the other daughters is probably not an accusation to him, but rather to the managing directors of the other daughters, who have very probably relocated this surplus staff to him. [[Abg. Prince: You don't believe that now!]] Nevertheless, the company of Dr. Graf was always very wise, that is understandable. Look at the documents and get some information! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The contract for senior employees you referred to, Mr. Lettenbichler, was a corporate standard. They were all like that, not just Dr. Graf alone. And the intention that he would accept a mandate if he were elected, he has very well announced. It is also stated in the report that this was at least one of the managing directors. If you're talking about him knowing three months before that he's going to accept a mandate, I'm asking you how this should go. Do you know three months before if you're elected? . But I hope, in view of your presentation and the presentation of the ÖVP, that this will be very, very uncertain for you next time, and that others will be given the preference here, who honestly strive for the people in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's more important then is that the barrel almost hits the ground. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What did he get...?]] When he was then known and he announced that he had achieved the mandate and wanted to accept it, he was told by the board of directors that this was a cause for dismissal! It's a redundancie, and it's in a public company! Where do we come from in this country if someone who wants to take office wants to take up a mandate in a legislative body that wants to serve the people, just because he wants to do so? – Ladies and gentlemen, this is really deep below the belt line! [[Abg. New builder: a scandal!]] As far as the history of the proceedings is concerned, my colleague, Mr Graf, has made two offers to the company. So it wasn't like they had to pay. He said: Either I remain 50 percent in the company in the case of lower order jobs or 100 percent in Karenz against loss of remuneration. Now tell me why this deal has become due. - Because Dr. Graf didn't want to! That was the reason and nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can always argue about amounts. It is always very critical to look at this absolutely. I think you have to see it relatively. If a Mr. Ötsch gets €1.1 million from AUA, then this is no problem at all for red and black; a quarter of it, or not even a quarter of it, for a well-earned managing director of a good company is very likely a problem. That's what I'm asking myself: How far has it been with you, Mr. Lettenbichler? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This year we will have to deal with another report from the Court of Auditors, namely the income report. Among other things, there are the average board salaries of public enterprises in it. If you look at the statistics here, you can see that it goes from € 858 000 in annual salary to € 283 000 – I think it's about 30, no, more, about 50 board members who deserve more than the Federal Chancellor, and these are almost all from the dark circle of red and black. Mr Lettenbichler, consider The next time you say!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33635	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33662	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The report is available to you, and I would like to rely primarily on the Court of Auditors' judgment in my statements on the Austrian Research Center. I don't think there is a need for additional comments, additional explanations or additional examples, but you just need to read what's going on, then just get up the greys! I mean, it's just, and it's just a blue mismanagement special. There was a tohuwabohu in the management order, documents missing, criteria were missing, so to speak, further assessment standards were not found for the Court of Auditors. Austrian Research Center has practically come into a liquidity crisis, although originally relatively many reserves existed. What is also very significant for me: Fortunately, very clear text is spoken in connection with the resolution of the managing director's contracts. The Court of Auditors criticises that “the ARC did not take into account in the contractual re-designation of the service relationship of the former managing director of a subsidiary’s ambitions to obtain a mandate with a legislative body, although they had to be known at least to a managing director of the ARC”. That's really clear text! ‘The Court of Auditors considered the grounds for disbursement of the one-off premium to be unjustified because it was excluded by a clause in the management contract.’ That's clear here. And today this person, more or less in the two-hour cycle, is sitting with us on the Bureau! [[Abg. May. Stefan: And who owes it if it was paid out? Who did that?]] Sometimes I really wonder how political careers need to be established, that they will then be more or less at the head of the Republic. In any case, this example shows: They pass through an institution that also criticises the Court of Auditors in a human way and simply puts it in need of massive reform. Finally, I would like to explain to you the following: "The Court of Auditors criticised, inter alia, that the former managing director of the subsidiary for the remainder of the contract was not employed for another task within the group. The Court of Auditors recommended the ARC by means of forward-looking and legal compliance” – please note: legal compliance! – ‘If possible, keep the cost of early settlement of contracts as low as possible.’ I mean, there was curved what the beams held. And now this personality is still third president of the National Council! [[Abg. Singer: Thank God!]] Then the Third National Council President goes to the Court of Auditors and presents new issues for his defence. It's really incredible: There are new facts which were not available to the Court of Auditors during its examination period, during the time when he was searching the documents on the spot and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we?- Oh, my God! We urgently need Court of Auditors reports of this kind. But what we needed much more would be a political culture, in which individuals who are so critical would take leave of their resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33712	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33734	Madam President. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I can devote myself to the Semmering Base Tunnel, which has now become an evergreen in the Court of Auditors reports. [[Abg. Amon: The railway tunnel, right?]] Ongoing delays occur, original plans need to be revised and costs to be corrected upwards. Ladies and gentlemen, this habit must not break in! You could say, of course, now: What else should one expect if one considers how the ÖBB has been managed down in the past decades? – It could easily be argued that, in the face of privilege and early retirement at the ÖBB, it is not surprising that one seems to have to start over and over again. The experts fled as soon as possible to the early retirement and left the reassurance work to those who are lagging behind. Those who have carefully studied the Court of Auditors' follow-up report on the Semmering Base Tunnel will have little joy. This is not a reading for the mind, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors then calls for decisions to be taken reliably by the competent ministry. The term “whoever does nothing can do nothing wrong” may apply in some offices, but every day that continues to sow costs taxpayers money, a lot of money. [[Abg. Newborn: Hello!]] Of course, the ÖBB do not follow this, but it is known to be even more comfortable there. But it seems that someone has taken advantage of it, has read through the Court of Auditors' report and has initiated an almost revolutionary improvement in the functioning of the Austrian Federal Railways. Implementation would definitely be too much required! Of course, in the case of such a great amount of reform, you also have to take a break. The Court of Auditors finds this to be a wonderful diplomatic formulation, namely: The ‘cost-benefit analysis... was implemented by the ÖBB in the form of a declaration of intent’. But now seriously: A statement of intent is not implementation! An initiation of a reflection process on technical and economic considerations in the implementation of a construction project such as the Semmering Base Tunnel should not be the result of a criticism by the Court of Auditors, but actually the basic requirement before such a project is even started. Overall, the follow-up report is nothing but a politely formulated cry for help from the common sense. Public funds need to be used responsibly and with far-reaching views. Planning and cost-benefit calculations are the small one-times of every so small company. This rightfulness is also expected by the Austrian Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. Apply instead of lazy! We from the BZÖ will continue to look at the Federal Government and ensure that They put away their lovable habits as soon as possible, according to the motto “absorbing, delaying, concealing. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33783	Mr Windholz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33815	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council! At the beginning, a great deal of praise to the Court of Auditors. As always, the President has shown mercilessly with his team where there is an abuse where the taxpayer is harmed. The ARC report is already something very special. It has become even richer since the last committee meeting, because the Court of Auditors is examining documents submitted, and that has already been very, very divergent. I can only say, in general terms, that: It is insignificant whether you count against it, 50,000 against one million otsch or something else – the taxpayer does not understand! It is de facto a waste of tax money. On the basis of this new facet, that a person taking part in the committee meeting, Mr Graf, then submits documents which have not yet been known to the Court of Auditors, please raise the alarm bells! How is it possible, then, that documents will not be submitted to the Court of Auditors? Where are these documents? Did individual actors do this separately? Is there a special safe? Is it taken home and, I don't know, kept somewhere in the night castle? – This is an unsustainable state! Mr President, Mr Moser, I may ask you to start this matter, if it has to be, with a recent examination. There's one thing you need to find out: Where are such documents, and why are they abstained from the Court of Auditors? – I don’t know how far this is for my colleagues Graf – there is no ban on remission – in a certain way relieves or if there are others who now also get into a shaky light. In any case, it is quite, very important for the taxpayer. Mr President. Clarify it! This is and remains an unsustainable state. In general, one has felt the political influence – one can quite say it – now, the billing with a certain government participation. I should therefore like to remind the representatives of the government parties of their part, because that is the system. Those who do not take advantage of a disbursement under the cover, but who choose to spend great money, belong at least equally to the Pranger!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33857	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the rapporteur. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-30 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:53:20]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/5 (III-56/593 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/7 (III-73/594 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33910	We now come to the items 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33940	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With the EU financial report, we have a report from the Court of Auditors, which really provides an excellent basis in a matter that is of great interest to all of us. However, after 12, 13, almost 14 hours of meeting this report by the Court of Auditors has not yet been discussed here, and I have two requests to the President. The first request: If there are agendas of the length of today, I would like to make two days in the future so that we can have a decent working time, on which we can also discuss seriously and meaningfully. [[He also welcomed SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: Then we have two urgent...! Then it'll take so long again!]] Yes, then we have two urgent ones, but we can divide the speaking times so that Members do not have to run down in a minute's time, say a few words quickly and then go up again. That's not worthy of us, I'd say. My second request: Why do we have to make meetings on Friday? . The Members also have a lot of work at home. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Steibl.]] I hope that there aren't people like the ORF who already directed us in the early days that our holidays are over! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We also have at home enough work, so it would be beneficial to be here Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and in the rest of the time in our constituencies. – Thank you very much and beautiful evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e33995	Mr Gaßner, the appeal is, of course, primarily directed at the club chairmen and the club directors. However, I would draw attention to the fact that a shorter agenda does not automatically result in a shorter session, because the experience of one shows: The shorter the agenda, the greater the number of special measures. What we could do, even on the basis of the current Rules of Procedure, is that we, or as President, as President, in agreement with the political groups, for example, interrupt the meeting at 9 p.m. and call on the next day to the next meeting only after the end of this continuing session. [[Abg. Wheelers: No special measures!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] This would mean that, in two days, four days may come out, but of course this must also be noted. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] That would be the only way I can see right now. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Otherwise, we would probably have to change the Rules of Procedure very fundamentally. This would be the case, even in the case of minority rights, and I would be reluctant to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34058	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think Mr Gaßner is right in some way. I also have an additional suggestion, namely the suggestion that perhaps once again a report on the Court of Auditors could be discussed at an earlier stage and that we might also have more attention to some reports. Today, this chapter also deals with climate-related measures at the level of the countries in the field of housing renovation. Here, in agreement with the countries, the Court of Auditors compared housing renovations in the countries. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for the fact that, following this report with the countries on the ground, this report has also been discussed on the ground and this report has been prepared. Mr President, I think this is a proper form and it also shows a connection with the countries that we are voting together and discussing it. However, this report clearly states that there is a need for uniformisation and optimization in residential renovation. In my opinion, it is very important for us to achieve the objectives of climate change. The Court of Auditors points out that we have not actually achieved our objectives in accordance with the climate strategy of 2002 and 2007, because there is no consensus between the Federal Government and the countries. The Court of Auditors also pointed out that emissions cannot be significantly reduced during the review period, especially in the case of space heat and small consumption. There has even been a infringement procedure against Austria because we have not implemented the EU Building Directive. So there is a bunch of things that the Court of Auditors has shown. Of course, he has made recommendations as always; there were four in the clear text. It is a question of establishing qualified consultation systems across countries. It is also about creating appropriate incentives to stimulate the promotion of renovation, especially in the use of ecological building materials. It is also about the implementation of the EU Buildings Directive together. And the fourth recommendation is to create support systems, according to which the level of funding depends on the level of energy savings. In summary, I believe that we are, of course, in a competitive relationship between sustainable living and ecological demands, requirements and objectives, especially when it comes to residential renovation. I think you just have to give ecology a higher priority here. Finally, I should like to thank the Court of Auditors once again. I believe that this report has contributed to bringing momentum into matter. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Where?]] After all, it was 2008 the year of examination, and in 2009, I think, a lot has happened; this brings us forward in the common climate policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34097	Now comes Mr. Ing. Hackl to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34119	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to address the EU report. On the part of the Court of Auditors, it is complained that certain aspects are not verifiable. They refer to the ERP funds, partly to higher education promotions and also to recipients of direct private EU funding. I have once looked at the position of direct EU support. That's about €72 million, in good old schilling is the almost 1 billion S. There the Ministry of Finance is certainly required to provide the relevant facts and data. Another point I noticed is the net contribution from Austria. It doubled from 2006 to 2007. We could use the €250 million for our own budget today. In this context, I also call on the EU or our government to reduce EU contributions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A very important item is in the position of the EU's external frontier funds. It's worth €1.8 billion. One of the funding objects of this Fund is the protection of the external border, and this afternoon we have actually seen an example of how these external borders or the protection of these external borders do not work. So I wonder if the money that the EU spends in the period under investigation makes sense. The practice shows that this is not the case. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Unfortunately, Ms Fekter is no longer here, but she said that there was no problem at the Thalham First Recording Centre. – I come from this district, from Vöcklabruck district, and I have to oppose the Minister of the Interior. Thalham is still a problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thalham has a history similar to Eberau, only that a building has already been built there. The dedication didn't fit. The black mayor, along with the black state government, has directed it with various opinions until the community was booted out. The area dedication has been directed. The population has risen to barricades. Here in the house, somewhere in a depot, lies a petition with 3,500 signatures of the population of St. George and the surrounding area, which have spoken against the first recording center. The ORF is currently promoting with an interview series that it now works by sending out the ten matching from 100 interviews. Some people have also resigned. The number of ads goes back because the businessmen say that if they are already being stolen, they don't want to steal the time for an ad themselves. This is the sad background of such a first-time recording centre! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34188	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34209	Mr President. – We don’t take care of any strizzi matter. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What about rhinestone? Is that on the ball too? And fungus?]] [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] On the somewhat mixed agenda items, first on the EU financial report and then on the issue of housing restructuring contributions and on the complete exclusion of climate change-related objectives. The EU financial report is a little methodological once again. The Court of Auditors is still making it better. They should not only bring the report to mind – this is now an appeal to all Members of Parliament, not only the Committee on the Court of Auditors – but also, it will be technically possible for us to present the special summary presentation on the classification of EU financial issues from the Austrian perspective, which was presented by the President of the Court of Auditors in the Court of Auditors. This is very helpful and instructive. It is often true that we really do not know exactly how this looks in detail, and yet we are talking about what the privilege of people's representatives is. And in so far, please, accept the offer, there is really a big contribution. The Court of Auditors is, as it were, not only a contributor to the Members of the Court of Auditors, but at least to the whole House and beyond. There is nothing to comment on in the matter itself, because it is a descriptive report. Of course, it is an incentive to make certain ideological findings. I would like to raise one point, namely that it makes sense to think about integration on the basis of the duration and on the average of development, both economic and social, as well as environmental. But then we will have to look ahead, and then, of course, what is included here in material is already the basis for the new EU financial period from 2014, which – correct me – will then be in the turn for several years. In my opinion, it would be a step forward if we could bring back the national budgets – and I will start with them very consciously – – – on revenue such as expenditure, of course, and increase the EU budget. In fact, we have to admit somewhere that the Union's tasks are increasing, but we cannot keep up with budgetary donations. It is only because of the fact that agriculture is being reduced in the expenditure sector. This may also be useful if you look at which agricultural industrial structures are to date primarily promoted, but it also fits into the hysterical mainstream that is being persecuted in Austria. Nevertheless, it is useful, even if it is only said at 23.06 a.m. that the train is heading in this direction and we may not be able to stop it at all, but we can speed it up if we can be sure that the direction we are already, as large or as small as we are, can also take part in it. And that is why I call for a more open look at EU, economic and financial issues. If, for example, we are longing for all parties, and I think that the government is also credible in establishing financial transaction tax, then it will be useful to anchor revenue in the EU budget and not to distribute it to the countries. This would give rise to opportunities, in addition to the fact that the financial transaction tax is a very reasonable steering instrument, because it reduces speculative transactions and stimulates useful investment for the economies. There is also revenue, if you want to do so, even as a side effect, when you put the steering effect in the foreground, and these revenues are to remain in the EU budget. There are then two possibilities: Either the EU has more tasks because of the mandate of the individual states, it will be able to do so well – the nations will have to look for themselves, how they can cope with it – or we are driving – now we have 1 percent of the EU budget, measured by the overall economic performance – which is up to 1.5 percent – that already generates up there or there – and the national budget plans return by half a percent. That would be in line with what reality has long commanded and where, from my point of view, it should go. These EU-wide taxes, by the way, also certain eco-taxes do not make any sense nationally, even if it hurts me as a greener to describe this, such as the kerosene levy on aviation petrol, should remain in the EU budget and not be re-established in the national budgets. These are the great opportunities that arise here, and we will not solve it differently in 2014, either, I hope. Secondly, at least for the Minutes it was said: From my point of view, once again there is a terrible failure of the federal states in the use of federal funds as regards housing renovation. Much too little is being implemented in the direction of goal achievement in the sense of energy efficiency, and therefore climate protection as well. We know exactly what the housing funds are used for, but also the housing rehabilitation funds in the countries. I think that's a shame. Now you can say, okay, poor countries also have too little money, otherwise they are efficient. Then at least you have to show this correctly. At the moment, we have the problem that we have ideas about how we want to shape effective measures. This is completely different in the different Länder, and the common standardisations do not take effect. As always, it turns out in the end that Vorarlberg and Upper Austria are the best there. That is where you can look again in the report; it has confirmed itself. I am leaving the party coulers away now, but it would be useful and useful for the reason to do so more rigorously from the Federation. It is simply no longer acceptable that the Lans of the Head of State or from me also trample on the nose – I repeat simply and grippingly the quote – on the nose. After all, we are the Federation, after all, it is the Federation that bears responsibility for the revenue of the state – and not the countries. What taxes do they levy? They are far too cowardly for it, and they also refuse to take on this competence. In every Austrian convention it was like that! However, the means they take from the League to pursue a particular direction of politics do not use them in this sense. I notice: That's abuse! It is our responsibility, however, to try to construct the rules in such a way that the countries do not always jump out where the Federal Minister has long been using tax money, in which direction it should go. At country level, nothing of this is true!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34264	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34314	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! The fact that we are negotiating points 15 and 16 together today gives me a clear picture of what is going wrong in European, in Austrian funding policy. On the one hand, money is invested in a technology that has no future. We have already recognized this in Austria, already known a long time ago. That would be the brief opinion on item 15 of the EURATOM Treaty. On the other hand, there is a far too small amount where climate, environmental protection, energy security and, above all, citizens could benefit directly. This would be the brief opinion on item 16 of the climate-related measures in the construction of housing. First, I would like to focus on the point that could contribute to a positive future, the renovation of housing as a climate protection measure. After that, I will anyway make a request to the EURATOM so that these funds will be released again to invest them in meaningful projects such as the promotion of climate-related measures. The climate conference in Copenhagen is over. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached, which could only deliberately stop the threatening climate collapses. Our Federal Government has already predicted this failure. Neither a sustainable feed-in tariff for renewable energy has been decided nor has the success model of thermal rehabilitation been continued. At the same time, those responsible for red and black will not tire of agreeing that everything is all right anyway. The fact that thermal renovation – this is one of the most important climate-related measures that we could implement within the shortest time – is so pummeled is a game of mourning! The argument that climate protection is too expensive and we cannot afford it in the economic crisis is not true. The promotion of thermal rehabilitation is, on the contrary, a good business for the Minister of Finance. The promotion of the thermal renovation of private residential buildings must be resumed, best with the BZÖ's non-profit-making credit model, because one of the Court's reports shows quite clearly: Especially in the field of home renovation is the greatest potential for CO2 savings, ladies and gentlemen! Now to EURATOM: The much quoted €40 million – these are the last figures available from 2004, probably already more – that we pay for EURATOM in Brussels are a blow to the face of the Austrians. This is probably one of the issues for which the Austrians have the least understanding, and that is absolutely right, and we see this from the BZÖ as well. Not enough for us to deliver this more than €40 million member contribution to the reactor friends in Brussels, we should now put a number of millions on it for the ITER research project for which the money goes out. This dangerous and pointless waste of money must be put to an end, ladies and gentlemen, and I now have the request mentioned earlier: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34387	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34438	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34460	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and President Dr. Moser very much for the presentation in committee, which was very useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We were told how to understand the EU financial report. What makes me particularly happy is that earlier “singings”, I say, under the quotation mark, we pay so much for Europe and we have nothing of it, not this time. And we were also told that €1.6 billion of EU funds went back to Austria. Net contribution increased to €563 million as a result of an increase. What is particularly motivating and also demanding respect for me is that, although the agricultural sector accounts for 71 per cent of the funds, it was able to exploit its 100 per cent potential. He deserves respect for this, and the other institutions should take an example of making use of opportunities that offer themselves. It's always better to keep the chances, than to cheat and lament. Europe is a successful community. This shows up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34496	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34539	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! The key points and the main findings have already been mentioned: €2.2 billion in deposits are compared with €1.6 billion in return flows. Austria, my previous speaker mentioned it, has almost completely been able to pick up the available funds from Brussels. Especially in the field of agriculture, rural development, we observe optimum use. But there are many, often not so well-known projects that are co-financed by the EU. Many of us know LEADER projects in their region, in their constituency supported by the European Union. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to an idea by the ÖVP that these projects, supported by the EU, are clearly identified. This initiative has, by the way, also been included in the government programme, and that is a good thing, because we must represent Europe as our opportunity and not as a danger, as some people would like to do here in the house. It is clear from economic experts that, unlike previous crises, we have taken the right steps in this coordinated Europe-wide approach to combat the most severe economic and financial crisis for 80 years. Separate, national motives no longer play an essential role in this Europe. The euro has also proved to be a major stabilising factor in recent years and months. The European Union has shown itself as a strong partner especially in times of economic downturn. Let us build together on this Europe! I would like to say a word in the direction of Mr Zanger: With this so-called well-measured defense speech, you have even more rode into your President Graf, because you have done nothing with the old FPÖ pattern – blur tracks, patch them, blame others – today. You have not said a word about the €50,000 because you know that this money has no legal basis and the money is illegal, not legitimately flown. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Who even turned it over?]] - He accepted it. I also find it unheard of that President Graf is not attending this meeting now – and this is a agenda item that concerns him himself, and he prefers to swing Walzer dancing through the Hofburg. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34578	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34600	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! If you have made the effort to review this report, you have had a scapegoat of the last financial compensation. What do we read first and foremost in the promotion of housing? – The target grants have, as it were, been converted into means of demand. That is to say, the commitment of the federal funds, which are at least taken with federal taxes, has been solved and the national budgets have been provided more or less with a filling horn. We will not feel the result until the next few years, because the need of the national budgets may lead to a massive reduction in the overall amount of housing support and savings. I do not want to mention yet that it would be the real task of the Federal Government to make use of substantial funds in the context of the climate strategy, including the promotion of housing for renovation and the achievement of Kyoto objectives. The Court of Auditors' report is much more fundamental. Not only that he criticises this change in the course of the financial compensation, no, but above all he criticises the lack of documentation at all. There are no data available at all ü ü ü ü ü. There is no precise information as to how much the housing aid for climate change targets is actually used for renovation. This is more or less a data nirwana. And the purpose of this data protection policy is to work on climate change, to promote small and medium-sized enterprises and so on. This cannot happen if one does not even have the appropriate documentation basis. This is once the first essential point. The second point for me is that the completely different procedures of the federal states do not have any consequences at all. The federal states can do and leave whatever they want. You have a certain ranking, thanks to the accuracy and acribity of the Court of Auditors, but, my goodness, if this is not particularly hurt, as in Carinthia, for example, nothing will change either. It is you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, who, in the next negotiation of the financial compensation, will be able to fix certain mandatory standards in order to force the individual states to the Raeson by establishing certain parameters in the financial compensation process from the outset, so that the climate protection objective, so that the energy efficiency which I am much closer to, is finally perceived because it also includes the social aspect. Otherwise, as the Court of Auditors is now analysing, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is really a bankruptcy policy in view of the financial needs, social needs and overall environmental conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34645	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34666	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! A few brief remarks on the space heat sector. The Court of Auditors notes that there has not been a change in the trend and can be seen for the future, but I would like to briefly highlight the current climate change report of the Federal Environment Agency. According to this report, transport causes 25.4 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, then industry, energy supply, and fourthly, space heat is 13.6 million tonnes. Compared with 1990, this is a lower decline than the only sector in this area. It is clear, of course, that in the future there will be the greatest need for action in the transport sector, but this does not mean that all other sectors will be removed from their responsibility for saving potential. However, the reduction in space heat between 1990 and 2005 has again been compensated for by increases in emissions in commercial and public buildings. So here too there is a great need for action. Finally, I would also like to highlight in this respect the policy of the State of Vienna in terms of the share of the overall share of the reform. In the Austrian average, the share is 23 percent of the total share, and in Vienna 39 percent have been spent on rehabilitation measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34703	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34726	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also refer to the climate-related measures for the rehabilitation of housing in the countries. In principle, the Court of Auditors noted that we are unfortunately far from achieving the Kyoto target. Upper Austria and Vorarlberg were praised in terms of consultation. But I think that if we want to increase the recovery rate in a sustainable way, we need to take more money into our hands, which is also necessary for climate protection in addition to positive economic effects. In order to develop housing renovation into an effective greenhouse gas reduction instrument, changes to existing support systems are needed. However, regulatory measures must also be adopted to reduce greenhouse gases in the long term. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors did not compare the CO2 savings effect per funding euro used. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives set must be pursued in the long term. We need a consensus on climate change between the Federal Government and countries so that we can achieve these objectives as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34763	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-56/593 of the supplements. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Widmann, colleague and colleagues on EURATOM exit. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-73/594 of the supplements. I'm asking for her consent. – This is unanimously accepted. [[23:28:40]] 17. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/9 (III-84/517 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34828	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Wait, wait, wait, Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34855	Mr President! High house! One of the blue-black problem areas, the ASFINAG-founded by Gorbach Verkehrstelematik GmbH, ist Geschichte. 360 million € were unscathed on Nämmerresaw. The Court of Auditors’ report on ASFINAG’s transport telecommunication relates to the period up to the end of 2007. Fortunately, the very massive criticism points described in this report have already been corrected by the new Board of Directors. The Court of Auditors has also stressed this positively. As the Court of Auditors' report confirms, transport telecommunication is in itself a reasonable matter. It is just, as often, a question of execution. The cost of this must of course also benefit in relation, but there was always very generous. An evaluation of their highly optimistic assessment was not considered necessary by those responsible. The Court of Auditors is talking about inexhaustible planning, some of which were estimated at 40. The report shows very impressively how the previous Black-Blue government worked without responsibility, but they obviously had nothing too expensive for taxpayers' taxpayers' taxpayers' taxpayers' money. We can therefore only welcome the step taken by Faymann, then Minister of Transport, to release the entire ASFINAG Board of Directors. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] It is likely that this saved the Republic a lot from what was colported on the occasion of the constituency of the former Boards. Better an end with horror than a terror without end. Since the new board has worked intensively on crisis management, we today only remain to show the political responsibility for this blasphemy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34906	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34928	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Transport Telematics project – electronic traffic monitoring for more safety – was launched in 2003. If you read the Court of Auditors' report, you can actually talk about a typical and classic misstart. There were seven planned installations, four were implemented between 2003 and 2008 and only partially put into service. There has been an increase in the cost of estimates. There has been much too optimistic estimates of revenue and savings potential, including no verifiable investigations into the effectiveness of these installations in the event of traffic accidents or the reduction of personal injury and injury. Overall, there has been a faulty cost-benefit calculation, the remuneration model and no performance incentives to increase efficiency. As a result, it was traded and in 2008 this traffic telecommunication was dissolved – from my point of view a real step – and incorporated into the ASFINAG. All in all, I think, the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been taken very seriously into account. It is simply about the Court of Auditors' recommendation to critically question the transport impact systems, where they make sense, where there is a high level of traffic and where they can also benefit from them. It is essential to pay attention to realistic cost estimates and to examine beforehand what such installations bring. At the end of the day, however, there are savings. ASFINAG Executive Director Dr. Schedl told us in the Committee that we could still achieve total savings of € 280 million. This project, I believe, is a typical case where the Court of Auditors has made a significant contribution to the fact that we today have transport telematics, but in other ways and in the form, in which costs and benefits correspond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34967	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e34988	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Since today the Greens have been asked a number of times, where the Third President is: I looked into your ranks. I noticed that Mr. Ollinger has been missing for hours. You can only hope that he's not with the left demonstrators who lit cars and threw stones. We can only hope that nothing has happened to Mr Ollinger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On ASFINAG, Mr Gahr correctly stated that the estimated costs had increased by 85 percent. Mr Kaipel, I would like to explain to you once again: Thanks to God, not 360 million € have been placed in the sand, but the operation has been turned off in time before that could have been so. Not all of the planned installations have gone into operation, there are only four in operation. What went wrong in advance has already been said by Mr Gahr; I am now saving you that I will explain it again. The problem with these entire telematic systems is that these traffic influences – and here as the Upper Austrian I am thinking specifically of this completely pointless fog warning in the lake area, where we still have mass carambolages – do not have any effect on the car driver at all. If you look at this, you could start by discussing whether the drivers are just undisciplined on the one hand or whether in our country of law-enforcement has already reached such sizes that it is quite easy for the citizen to know what he sees on any tables on the highway. And if I look at the bottom of the IG air in Upper Austria, in the central Linz area, then I tend to the second view. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is only a shame that the Court of Auditors can only examine it afterwards, because if it were expected in the past, then the next madness, the next million tomb, would have long since turned off, namely at the A8 – my dear Landespartierobmann Lutz Weinzingerist, particularly affected, because he drives the route every day when he goes to the Innviertel to Schärding. A four-track motorway across which the entire international transit in East-West direction runs will not, as the Litzka study suggests, be extended three-track per direction, i.e. six-track overall, no, a savings variant of €3 million per kilometer will be added to the sand again. And, as a sugar to spread over it, There are 50,000 square meters of completely pointless noise protection walls! That was already turned off in advance. Mr President, that would be an incentive: look at such a thing in advance. – That's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35052	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35073	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, you really do not need to worry about Mr Oellinger, he will spend the evening very useful. [[General hustle and bustle.]] We should now take the opportunity to discuss the real criticisms of the Court of Auditors in detail. All of them, both Mr Gahr of the ÖVP and Mr Haider of the FPÖ, perhaps also speakers from the SPÖ agree that belief and investment in telematics were a complete mistake and a misinvestment because it shows the experience: In road transport, the individual is primarily responsible for driving which takes account of the circumstances affecting transport conditions. The human decision, the human perception cannot be replaced by technology, nor human responsibility. This shows just the example you mentioned, fog in the area of Mondsee in Upper Austria: Telematics shows low speed – people roar like crazy beyond responsibility, beyond any assessment of the moment of danger. In so doing, I say that far more than telematics, we benefit from a proper equipment of executives, an increase in the number of executives, so that we have on-the-spot checks for road safety so that people's lives are saved so that accidents are avoided, so that there are no serious injuries and no massive damage to the quality of life. If we are controlled on the road, if we take account of it, the noise pollution is also lower, then we also need fewer noise protection walls. But all of this presupposes the insight and self-responsibility of drivers. I know this is a very high approach, which is probably a little blue-eyeed, but we would definitely save ourselves costs. The whole telematic situation, as the Court of Auditors now criticizes it, is more or less a child of this technology credibility of the era Gorbach, which Telematics even used to try out the maximum speed on motorways of 160 km/h. I do not share in any way the criticism expressed by the telematic possibilities of supporting IG-air compliance. We have EU legislation that provides for pollutant reductions. If there are excesses of pollutant limits due to increased car traffic, then it is necessary to drop the pace. I don't understand at all that fast driving is worth so much to you and, on the other hand, the health, safety, the value of life at all. I don't understand! This is really incomprehensible to me, and I can't explain it to myself otherwise than by a certain bit stupid restriction of male reason, which is partly in our ranks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can't explain it differently. I'm not gonna throw it before you, but I can't explain it differently. I would like to have the principle discussion, only: Listen to arguments, and each argument must be considered against a value background. Finally, we are faced with a decision of value. If you say that human life is not worthy of you that you drive considerately, then I have to accept it. But then at least say it, instead of just talking about stupid dung. Then at least say it, call it by name! [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, I have to be upset because human life is not appreciated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] – Mrs Colleague, I can talk for a longer time. The longer you talk, the longer I talk, because you provoke me. That's not a problem for me at all! [[New calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr President, Mr Moser will also see how important the Court of Auditors' assessments are. We could spare ourselves all of this, we would drive wisely, take account of the laws. The Court of Auditors report shows us the right direction, and in that respect we should fully acknowledge it. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Court of Auditors. Your commitment, Mr President Dr. Moser, is a special thank you, including the use of Mrs Mag. Berger, who is always ready to answer calls quickly in the short term. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish you a pleasant evening now, just like Mr Öllinger. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35188	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35210	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! The big question is: Where's Ollinger? – We still don’t know! The ASFINAG theme is a permanent burner at the Court of Auditors. However, for taxpayers, the result is always extremely negative. This is another really shocking report: it is estimated at the time target, in all areas of transport impact systems, significantly in addition to that, costs exploded by 85 percent. That reminds me of the red and black skylink disaster. Apparently there were the same counselors at work, for they were there with the costs also beyond good and evil. The personal benefit for the drivers has always been put in the foreground and is now proved to be entirely in addition to that, because the need for these facilities has not been justified. In retrospect, it turns out that this is not at all true, what has been announced. So money was put back in the sand. Typical of the finances: The managing director receives a fixed cover of 29 percent higher than senior officials. For this work, you have to say scrap work, even hard overpaid! Consequence: Well, as always, not at the ASFINAG. The payment of credits is of course without evaluation of the achievement of the goal. This clearly reminds us of the ÖBB – the same system. Cost explosions do not matter, bonus payments are granted. With regard to the resolution of the contract, which Mr Kaipel has celebrated, it is to be questioned that generous payments are being granted here. For what? – For nothing other than for pussy! All in all, you have to be very, very skeptical when you present numbers here. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! This is almost a call to constantly control, given what comes from the ASFINAG. Since the German Chancellor's appointment, which Mr Kaipel has also stressed, it is not clear to us that there would have really been something better there. If you have so many debts, you seem to be whole, quite loose in making further debts. This is not in the interest of taxpayers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Testing Continue with this consequence!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35264	I now give the floor to Mr President Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35285	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by saying: Control works! [[General condolences.]] I am therefore very grateful for the statements made by Mr Gaßner and Mr Gahr, for if the person they have carried out were to be implemented, it would also be possible to make visible to the general public that this is the case that control works. This can be seen, among other things, by looking at the demand procedure, which shows that 81 percent of the Court's recommendations are effective. This also shows the follow-up tests on the agenda today, in which 37 recommendations were not implemented only 7 recommendations. This does not mean that they should remain open, but it should be a motivation to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the future because this will enable more efficient use of resources. This also shows the ARC exam – you know the problem, you did it today. It has led to the implementation of the 23 recommendations and has also led the company to stand on firmer, more solid legs than it originally did. This can also be seen in the case of transport telematics. Through the audit of the Court of Auditors and also in cooperation with ASFINAG, it was possible to rescale a project without limiting its functionality to 180 million euros. This means saving €180 million for taxpayers, without having to interfere with the functionality and achievement of the objectives. It would also be important for measures to be taken in the context of the Regulation on remuneration. Indeed, a 38 percent return on sales cannot be reconciled with the principle that only a limited profit-making can take place in the area of public utility. In the field of the use of third-party funds at universities, it has also been shown the effect of cross-sectional testing and that, when applied, positive benchmarks also lead to more efficient use of funds. The need for an administrative reform to ensure that the use of resources in the form is not effective proves that the examination of climate-related measures that have been committed internationally to implementing binding reduction targets is carried out. However, these reduction targets have not been broken down to the country which, in turn, has led to the fact that no concrete reduction targets have been or have been agreed at national level. The implementation of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz also shows that a division of competence should be eliminated here in order to allow the needy to pay the money quickly and justly to the needy according to the objectives. Finally, I would also like to thank you for your positive emphasis on the EU financial report in your debates, which the Court of Auditors felt to be positive. We will also continue to work in the direction. However, it would also be necessary to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations in order to ensure that EU return flows and payments are transparent and comprehensible in the future and not 10 percent of the return flows will not be recorded by the Federal Ministry of Finance. I would like to thank you once again for the evidence of appreciation of the Court of Auditors' work, and I would very much like to share this appreciation that you have received from the Court of Auditors during the debate and can assure you that the Court of Auditors will continue to be motivated to carry out its activities in the future, as in the past. I would also like to ask you, as part of the administrative reform, to implement the proposals of the Administrative Reform Working Group, to follow them up and to discuss them urgently. The restructuring programme has shown that it is necessary to achieve savings in order not only to impose additional burdens on taxpayers on the revenue side. First of all, save and then consider other measures, if they are not avoidable! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35356	As there is no further word, I conclude the debate. Opinion on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take account of report III-84 of the Supplements. If you are in favour of this note, I would ask you for a sign of approval. – The notice is given unanimously. [[23:50:00]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, Dieter Brosz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (492 d.b.) (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35410	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. The requirements of § 108 of the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled. We shall come to the vote. In accordance with Article 30(l)(c) of the basic Regulation. 2 Federal Constitutional Act in conjunction with § 82 para. 2nd paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the decision may be taken only on the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, those who agree with this draft law, title and receipt in 492 of the supplements, which essentially amends the Rules of Procedure Act to constitutional amendments, also at third reading, I ask for an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. This draft law is therefore also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[23:51:14]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Herbert Scheibner, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35476	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. The requirements of § 108 of the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled. We shall come to the vote. In accordance with Article 30(l)(c) of the basic Regulation. 2 Federal Constitutional Act in conjunction with § 82 para. 2nd paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the decision may be taken only on the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. I note that the necessary presence of the constitutional number of Members is necessary for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law, title and receipt in 493 of the supplements, which re-establishes the treatment of EU issues in the National Council, also at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given. – This draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. [[23:52:24]] 20. Point First reading: Request by Members Stefan Petzner, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Law on Religious Education in 1949 (855/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35529	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35553	Mr President. High house! ==References== In November 2009, the European Court of Human Rights, the Strasbourg Court of Justice, decided against Italy in the case of Lautsi, that crosses and crucifixes – that is a difference – are incompatible in school classes with the principles of the Convention on Human Rights. This awareness has caused general outrage – not only in Italy but beyond. The Coalition Government then took place at the National Council meeting on 19 February. In November 2009, in the course of the debate on the Federal Government's foreign policy report, a request was submitted which, among other things, represented the situation in such a way that the regulation in Austria was legitimised by international law, which was true and constitutionally protected. It is true, rather, that the provision in § 2b of the Religious Teaching Act 1949 is a provision of principle by means of a provision in paragraph 2. That is, there is an increased consensus quorum if this provision is to be changed. This is a requirement which concerns the House here in the event that a change should take place in the Law on Religious Education, but it does not constitute a constitutional barrier – as is claimed in the request of the Coalition Parties – in the event that the Constitutional Court would examine this provision in the light of the jurisdiction of the ECHR Court of Justice. It did not wait for long until the first filed a similar complaint to the Constitutional Court; a procedure in this respect is already under way. Therefore, we believe that, regardless of how the Constitutional Court is currently composed, it would be reasonable to make formal constitutional law out of the provisions of § 2 of the Law of Religion 1949 – and as such it is to be identified. Therefore, simply and simply go ahead with the phrase ‘(constitutional provision)’, to mark the whole as a constitutional provision and to decide as a constitutional provision, so that the Constitutional Court then treats this provision as a constitutional provision and thus has a different level of examination. The Constitutional Court would then have to examine whether simple legal standards should be subsumed under this constitutional law, and could not, though protected by a rule of principle with an increased consensus quo, yet to be examined as a simple legal provision, determine it under an ECHR jurisdiction, under the conditions of the ECHR, which in turn is in the constitutional rank, so to speak, to undergo a qualified examination. If we declare this as a constitutional provision and decide as a constitutional provision, then this provision is in the same position as the ECHR, as the Convention on Human Rights, and would have to be treated in a uniform manner by the Constitutional Court and thus examined in a similar manner, so that the appropriate appeal would not have any more prospect of success, regardless of the composition of the Constitutional Court. I believe that we owe it to the tradition and also to the majority opinion of the Austrian population to ensure this provision by means of a constitutional system.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35626	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35648	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have sufficient time in the Committee to discuss this issue. However, Mr Stadler, as a matter of principle, we believe that, if we consider the individual legislative bodies, which are now the subject of this request, we shall have to do so. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. I am permitted under the Federal Constitutional Act Article 14 para. Citing 10 that in matters of school and church, “federal laws by the National Council can be adopted only in the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast”. In addition, the State Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Austria sets out clearly the following questions relating to school life: “The Holy See notes that, according to Austrian legislation, in all classrooms of national, primary and special schools, polytechnic courses, general higher schools, middle and higher schools, and teachers and educators, when the majority of pupils belong to a Christian religious profession, a cross is attached. A change of this state will not take place without agreement with the Holy See.” – Quotes. This too seems to us to be a second security. You have already quoted the third, namely the religious teaching law, which this is in § 2b para. 1 also clearly defined: “In the case of § 1 para. 1 schools in which the majority of pupils belong to a Christian religious profession shall be crossed by the teacher in all classrooms." Mr Stadler, I believe that this cannot be secured more clearly and more often. I therefore think we should be careful not to be more papal than the Pope. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35696	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35717	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Constitutional protection is therefore due to the need for a two-thirds majority. First point. Second point: Although it may be a difference before the Constitutional Court of Justice whether or not there is an anchoring in the Constitution, it does not matter to the European Court of Human Rights whether we have a commitment in the constitutional rank or not. In this respect, the suspicion is very obvious that it is purely symbolic policy that you are trying to put in the foreground. The fact that the ÖVP, of course, stands for the exercise of religious freedom, including in public places, but also, of course, for religious instruction in schools and for the installation of the crosses in schools, is not a secret. This position is clear – and in this respect this debate can also be spared, although, of course, I am also interested in the views of the Minister of Education. We will discuss this in the teaching committee, where, for example, the Minister of Education will be able to clarify how many Austrian schools the cross is and where not. It is stated that a cross should be placed where a majority of the Christian religious confession is given by the students. But obviously, as I have been told, there are schools in Vienna, where this is not the case. It is quite exciting to have the discussion, although it would have been equally exciting to discuss it with constitutional experts in the Constitutional Committee. Nevertheless, and finally another remark: You also know that the situation in Italy is different from in Austria. With us, the right to religious education is laid down by law – and in Italy it is an administrative arrangement. We have a compulsory education and not a compulsory education. So many differences that also make it clear that we are not in the situation like Italy. Nevertheless: Let us discuss this in detail in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35766	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35787	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In his famous speech to the youth, the German Federal President Theodor Heuss coined the image of a Europe built on three hills: on the Acropolis, which stands for ancient Greece, with its great philosophical and democratic teachings, on the Capitol of ancient Rome with its law and state doctrine, and on Golgotha – I see, colleague Stadler smiles – on Golgotha, the hill that stands for Christianity, the religion of the evening country, with its message of faith, love and hope. The cross is thus the symbol of Europe's structure of meaning and values. Religion, language and art are the identifying pillars, and thus the cross is also a symbol of the identity of Austria and Europe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The preservation of our identity is, in our opinion, the subject of our conscience. We reject left ideologies that would like to replace religion with substitute healing teachings, such as antifascism. I have just heard that Mr Oellinger has been seen in an illegal demo, in an illegal left-wing demo – and I think you have to say that here before – where cars are lit, where business portals are lit. [[Abg. Strache: Even policely perluscated!]] I can only say: We strongly reject this. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I'm going back to the crosses: In Rome, Secretary of State Bertone rightly responded to the attempts to depend on crosses in classrooms, namely: This Europe of the third millennium wants to take away the most valuable symbols and only leave us the pumpkins of the Halloween festival! I also find it a scandal if our Minister of Education and Culture, Mr Schmied, does not find any clear words to this effect, just not saying anything about it at all, but just waiting for it. I feel it is a scandal that an Austrian minister disregards these values. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the same way, it is strange that just this minister gives the task of rewriting the Austrian Federal anthem. After all, the German anthem is also a symbol of our identity. We therefore strongly reject this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The BZÖ's request goes in the right direction. However, we liberals believe that the cross should be a symbol, because it expresses our identity, in all classrooms – and not only in those where the majority of students are Christians. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] In this respect, we will also make an amendment and invite all political groups to join in. We liberals believe that the cross in the Austrian public must not disappear as a symbol of the Australian culture, and of course we will continue to fight for it everywhere there... – What do we have? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You're against the Australian culture?- Oh, my God! The Cross is a symbol of the Australian culture, and we will therefore, of course, continue to fight for the cross to be preserved wherever it can be seen for thousands of years, including in classrooms.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35886	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35919	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This excitement on the part of some of the gentlemen here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Mr President, I think you have other concerns at the moment when you read the papers like this than you are excited about my speech. [[Abg. Strache: What about the Lord of Oillinger, who is moving around with violent demonstrators, instead of fulfilling his obligation here?]] Mr Unterlander has now made a very clear statement and has shown the problem of the BZÖ's application. This is about cultural struggle; it is about limiting people, and it is about demonstrating power. I can remind you that it is not ten years ago, not 20 years, not 50 years and not 100 years, but 219 years ago, that Joseph II. the tolerance edict, in which it reads: “persuasive... of the hurtness of all compulsions of conscience”. – But that’s exactly what you want to introduce again. They want to reintroduce a situation in which people are shown where power exists. We have done well in this state with the current regulation, and I am convinced that the highest courts in Europe and in Austria are able to interpret such legal provisions as is good for the whole of society. We do not need any other legal regulations here. But I would like to invite you, the commitment you have shown here for the crosses – Mr. Strache, violently, almost torches around with the cross and threatens people; at least it is so felt – that you can channel this commitment a little, that you are a bit dedicated to the students, that you see that our educational reform is going a little further – and that you are not constantly limited to these symbols. Christianity is able to survive without BZÖ and without the help of the Freedom Party. Our society is in a position to preserve its values, without your directly treacherous help, which points exactly to the opposite direction. What you're doing is splitting society, but not merging. What you do is abuse Christianity, but not protection of Christianity. If you want to fight the loss of values, you signal it by the way you make politics – and not by fighting against religious minorities. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We are in a Europe of religious and cultural diversity. We are fighting for this, we are going to stand up for it – and I am sure that we will also achieve it against your resistance. Fortunately, BZÖ and FPÖ are not those who in our state indicate the tone in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e35975	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with request 855/A to the Committee on Education. [[00:09:19]] 21. Point Re-election of committees according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e36011	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be re-elected by existing committees as soon as changes in the force ratio of the clubs are required by the President. The Committees set up to date with 17 and 27 members respectively are affected by changes. The National Council shall determine the number of members and substitute members. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them. A re-election of the main committee does not take place, as no change has yet been made as regards the electoral lists within the meaning of § 30 GOG. After consulting the Presidential Conference, a committee size of 16 members and replacement members is now proposed by common accord for the existing committees with 17 members and replacement members, whose distribution to the political groups is calculated in accordance with the d’Hondt system as follows: Each of 5 members and replacement members on SPÖ and ÖVP, 3 members and replacement members on FPÖ, 2 members and replacement members on the Greens, 1 member and replacement member on the BZÖ. For existing committees with currently 27 members and replacement members, a committee size of 26 members and replacement members is proposed by common accord, whose distribution among the political groups is calculated in accordance with the d’Hondt system as follows: Each of 8 members and replacement members on the SPÖ and ÖVP, each of 5 members and replacement members on the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members on the Greens, 2 members and replacement members on the BZÖ. I come to the vote. First of all, I shall vote on the amendment of the Committee size from 17 to 16 members and replacement members. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Let me now vote on the amendment of the Committee size from 27 to 26 members and alternate members. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. The names of the members or alternate members who have been announced by the President's clubs, and thus as elected Members, shall be entered in the list of committees after the expiry of the expiry period for the Official Protocol. [[The members and substitute members can be consulted on the Internet under “Parliamentary Events” Committees>National Council> Committees and Subcommittees”.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[00:11:01]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-01-29-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00053_d8e36097	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications were made for 937/A(E) to 977/A(E). Questions 4319/J to 4429/J were also raised. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another meeting to attend. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 0.12 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
