ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2180	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 79. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 77 and 78. Meeting of 22. In September 2010, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported to be Ablinger, Mag. Molterer, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Dr. Grünewald, Mag. Jarmer, Dr. Moser, Grosz and Hagen. [[10:16:10]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2214	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also say that the Sixth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been duplicated and distributed to all Members. [[10:16:30]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2394	MEPs Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues and colleagues have called for the written question sent at the beginning of the meeting 6514/J by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues at the Federal Chancellor on “Reforming instead of excavating – where are administrative reform and red tape, Mr Bundeskanzler?” to be dealt with urgently. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. I also announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from 13:15 a.m. to expected 4:15 p.m. [[10:17:38]] I am now interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2441	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:15:59]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on “Reform instead of disbursing – where do administrative reform and red tape remain, Mr Bundeskanzler?” (6514/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2480	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 6514/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2841	I give Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner on the grounds of the urgent question, according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure must not exceed 20 minutes, the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e2862	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! This special meeting today, in which we are dealing with our urgent question regarding “reform instead of abcassing – where do administrative reform and red tape, Mr. Federal Chancellor?” should deal with the question of why, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you were willing to break the Austrian constitution so coldly, and what backgrounds can we see in the face of the Vienna election, before which you are apparently not prepared to tell the citizens the truth about the planned burden steps you are planning to implement. The motto of this federal government is quite obvious: Cash off instead of reforming! In other words, instead of finally addressing the highly necessary and overdue administrative reform, it is preferable in the government to think about new tax burdens. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And there have already been many considerations from the ministries to the public. Many considerations that have been made in the Ministry of Finance, among other things, have seen the light of the public. - I'll talk later. Instead of reducing bureaucracy, it is obviously preferable to remove the money from the SPÖ/ÖVP government even more effectively. Otherwise, you can't appreciate your behavior! The head of government has a special responsibility for this. And German chancellor Werner Faymannweiß of course exactly what is planned and why this must remain in the drawers until after the election in Vienna: so that you do not enter even worse electoral positions than that already was the case in the Styria – which will nevertheless continue in Vienna. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Sometimes I have to check with you, Mr. Federal Chancellor: Either you are unwilling or not capable! One of the two possibilities must be reality. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: Both!]] Both are not a recommendation for the Federal Chancellor's Office. Mr. Bundeskanzler, if you look at your presentation and your work, you see: They are one who always smiles, but apparently does not really have the willingness to deal with the problems in Austria. In view of this, it is no wonder that many social democrats, including many former social democrats, are looking back to Alfred Gusenbauer, because he has not just gone much further, but compared with what you, Federal Chancellor Faymann, have accomplished, at least demonstrated that he is a true energy bundle in politics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was probably also the reason why, Mr Faymann, together with your mentor Häupl, you have taken care of the preservation of cast farmers in a way that you did not know about the SPÖ before, because that was a rather shabby way that took place. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was indeed a rather tedious way to disassemble cast builders. [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please! That was a voluntary retreat!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, this Federal Chancellor is the personalized Lethargy with his government team. This government acts lethargicly, there are no government templates – only inactivity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Former governments have done at least as if they were working, at least they have tried to convey the impression that you are working something, and acted outwards as if something were going on, but the duo Faymann/Pröll does not even try to cast its own inactivity. This attempt is not even being made. This can also be done with numerous examples. First example: ==References== On July 15, 2009, the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee on Administrative Reform was set up and last met on 15 July 2009. April. There has been no more meeting since then, and there have also been no talks with the opposition parties to finally continue the work in this subcommittee. In a similar way, the “Austrian talks” took place: These were removed from baptism in 2008, shortly after the last National Council election, and were then recruited due to the disinterest of the government parties. It is therefore not at all ready to seek common solutions to long-term administrative reforms with the opposition. The same is true, Federal Chancellor, your thinking and your actions, because what about the reforms you have announced? We are dealing here with a government whose misguided politics smells like heaven. That's where you really have to call things by name. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are not satisfied – just as most of the Austrian population is not satisfied! The need for reform remains on the rise, it is larger than ever, so the Court's proposals and the work packages drawn up by the working group should be implemented as soon as possible. They have been on the table for over a decade with 315 concrete proposals. We demand from the FPÖ a purely expenditure-side budget consolidation. The expenditure side is to be saved! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have to repeat it again and again: This red and black federal government is responsible for the highest expenditure and for the highest government debt in the Second Republic. They have accumulated further debts, and this on the back of the Austrian population, so we now need budgetary consolidation on the expenditure side, which is quite possible and which is also supported by the experts and economic research institutes with opinions. We liberals are therefore saying a clear no to new burdens that you are planning on the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No to increase taxes! All the burdens, if they hit the masses of the population, would break down domestic demand – and that would be bad for Austria! And mass loads are obvious, which are planned by you, because they would be necessary to fulfill what you have announced, namely the volume you have specified. But I say: The tax rate has already reached a record value in Austria. With 42.9% of GDP in taxes and social security contributions, Austria is at the top of the European Union. And further tax increases would, in a broad sense, endanger the location of Austria and also the competitiveness of our country. We therefore strongly call for the reform proposals of the Court of Auditors to be finally implemented for savings. But this was unfortunately prevented by the red-black blockade so far, and precisely this red-black blockade we want to break through liberals. We will also break these through with the support of the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to speak straight to the big chunks which would be the following: a total slag in the area of subsidies. That's where you've got to blow off! The subsidies are in Austria today at 15.5... [[Abg. Grossruck: Spoken!]] Well, I'm sure you wouldn't lose weight, Mr. Cot. That's always good. – As has been said, a compensation cure in this area is necessary where €15.5 billion is spent annually on subsidies. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That is 5.6 percent of GDP, which will continue to produce an unprofitable red-black redistribution – a dependency machinery in the red-black area, where we clearly see that we are making a wrong policy in Austria when compared to the European Union. 2.6% of GDP in this area is the EU average. In our opinion, it would be necessary to end up doing so. If we were to reduce subsidies to the EU section, a savings potential of €8 billion would be possible; €900 million in the short term. So much could be saved in this area. According to the Court of Auditors' calculations, which referred to 315 concrete examples, the administrative reform has a short-term savings potential of €1.1 billion and a total of €3 billion in the medium term. And with the long-overdue reorganisation and optimization of the health sector, savings would have a short-term impact of €300 million, €3 billion in the long term – without endangering quality and without having to close hospitals, as the SPÖ and the State Secretary of State are planning to close. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We say no to hospital closures! We want to know the quality securely and want to set up priority hospitals. You, Secretary of State arbitration, want to close - you have announced this - hospitals with less than 300 beds. [[Calls to the Greens.]] In Vienna, the Orthopedic Hospital food would be affected. [[Abg. May. Worm: Such a fool!]] That's the wrong way! We from the FPÖ want to counter this. As far as social security and pensions are concerned, I call on those responsible, since the urgent need to reduce privileges – for example at the Austrian National Bank – should finally be taken care of. There is a lot of savings potential. In this context, and taking into account the above facts, one has to ask what is really the most important thing for German Chancellor Werner Faymann. That is why I ask you, Mr Bundeskanzler: What does the first violin play in your political action? I cannot recognize social justice and social responsibility! I would therefore ask you once again: What does the first violin play with you? [[Abg. Großruck: Who plays the first violin?]] These are certainly not the needs of the Austrians, no, you are acting against these needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They can be used for a system that works by people – and this is a system that serves large banks. They therefore also serve the large banks, the bank directors, who are speculators and who have also led us into this economic crisis. Use those who throw It's unverified billions in the throat – instead of putting up with the responsibilities there! They obviously also serve the large banks to ensure the power of SPÖ. This has become the determining element of your Chancellorship, and this is totally unacceptable for us! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I do not recognise any line in this government, except that, for low reasons, one was prepared to break the Austrian constitution ice coldly in order not to have to disclose the tax increase plans before the Vienna election. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's your calculation: for purely electoral reasons, not to say the truth about the enormous load plans you have in the drawer. And that's just not right. That's what we call scandalous. And it's also scandalous when you throw billions of bank managers and speculators from your side. And in view of this, the Secretary of State, Mr SPÖ, who is presenting the SPÖ line, Mr Schieder, says that he is still talking about a tax on the rich, but he is actually talking about a medium-sized tax, because he says that everyone who earns €2 500 net a month should, in his opinion, already fall under the tax of the rich. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: That's not true at all!]] He confirmed that in interviews. With 60,000 € gross annual earnings, one feels rich. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: No!]] So at €2 500 According to SPÖ, you are rich in monthly earnings. And that shows exactly where you want to start: You want a medium-sized tax! And to that we say no! On the other hand, we want a millionaire tax that hits the real rich. We want to ensure the increase in the tax rates of the foundation, which you abolished with the help of the ÖVP, which will relieve you of the super-rich in the foundations. And we want to meet the speculators, the bank speculators who have caused this crisis, but whom you are turning billions into revenge today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There must be started – instead of acting on the principle that you live. We want solidarity and social justice instead of class struggle! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] They live from the SPÖs Marx and Murks, where the service providers and the middle class are burdened. We say about the FPÖ No to the burden of performance and medium-sized enterprises. We should not burden them – but those who have triggered this crisis and who can address it in this society. But you want a higher tax with which you meet the mass of the population. They also think about the taxation of holiday and Christmas money, how to hear and read in the newspapers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the Ministry of Finance, different variants are already calculated for this purpose. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] That's not about it! That's what we're saying: It must not be that one now has a tax, even a full tax of 13th and 14th. Monthly salary is being reduced! Please, gentlemen from the SPÖ and from the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The 13th and 14th respectively. It is not because employees and employees in Austria today finance any luxury trips or buy luxury goods, no, they need this 13th and 14th. salary for necessary purchases to survive and not become indebted due to the high, increased costs in our society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore have a social responsibility here to live and to live social justice! Also the debate about the possible abolition of the 13th. Family allowances, please: Get the fuck out of here! This is a social benefit for our families that they need, especially at the beginning of school, for the necessary purchases of children. To save here means deliberately to harm socially needy families or to purchase a damage. Therefore: Put your fingers away from such absurd stress considerations, which are really absurd in social policy as well! This means that if you calculated that per capita on average, € 259 would only be taxed in this area. A family with two children is missing – together, if you charge it to the four persons – € 1,000 a year. And 1 000 € are a lot of money! That is why we should take very, very careful action here and make such considerations as you are making them. The increase in VAT has also been discussed – in turn, a mass tax! You think about increasing VAT by 2 percent. Well, this is happening again to the poorest of the poor in our society, who can no longer afford to spend today, so that they can only be met here again! I therefore say: This, of course, harms those who have low incomes and who consume more from these low incomes than is the case with high incomes. Such an increase therefore reduces domestic demand and also harms the economy. Therefore: Away from such stress considerations! Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann is the embodied declaration of bankruptcy of social democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators shake the head.]] I've got to find out. He's the declaration of bankruptcy for social democracy! Not only that he spent the motto under his supervision: As long as he remains SPÖ Federal Party leader, the SPÖ must not win any choice! – You are very consistent, I must congratulate you on your follow-up, but that will not be sustainable. At some point the lower functionalists and the middle construction will no longer be seen. This is a sad low point, because the once so proud social democracy has reached today, which once really had something like a social conscience in the country, but has thrown it all over the board. If a sharp or a circle would have to look at what the Faymanns and their heads have partially fabricated, I tell you that they would break out in tears, quite rightly. Ladies and gentlemen! If we assess the overall political situation of you, then of course you also have to address what your further burden plans for the coming year are, especially on the day of work, with 1. May 2011 to bring down the EU transitional periods for the Eastern European neighbouring countries. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Where did you get this?]] Your Social Minister Hundstorfer has already announced this, he has said, yes, the transitional periods for the Austrian labour market for the Eastern European EU neighbouring countries, which must fall because this is important because you want to serve the economy and thus play the business in the hands of the economy – namely those rulers from the economic side who want us to know today that we have too little labour in the country. The opposite is the case! Even the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union support us by saying that the liberals are right that such a thing should not happen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must not abolish the transitional periods for the Eastern European labour market, we must extend them! There, in our neighbouring countries, where you earn an average of €300 net today, there is a million unemployed who would naturally push our labour market to work in the lower collective contract area by €890 net monthly. And, of course, with this wage dumping, which you want to support, Austrian skilled workers who have to earn an average of €1500 to €1600 in order to feed their family. But even well-integrated immigrants would then be affected by this wage dumping process. I therefore say no to this non-social measure you are planning. Let us also protect Austrian jobs for Austrian workers, and let us see that the many unemployed in the country where there is too little work today – because we have too few jobs, otherwise we would not have this unemployment, the many skilled workers and also academics who are unemployed today – once again allow for a job and create the right framework conditions for them to have future prospects. That's exactly where it's supposed to be. If you can still order an academic taxi in Vienna today, this shows how worrying the situation is. And there I want to implement socially responsible steps and also justice, which I unfortunately need to miss with you, Federal Chancellor. Therefore, please take your task more seriously than before! Please take your task more seriously! Finally, put it in concrete order. Your plans ahead! Ships You do not permanently give you the concrete questions that we have put back on your way today, and at last tell people the truth as to what you are planning! You obviously think that then three years will not take place in the country election that we will probably – you hope – do not have a national election, because the two in the red-black coalition bed will then be back together anyway, and you hope for the time when the citizens, when you decide on tax charges, will forget them. I'm saying that's unfair. We will therefore now draw attention to it, but in succession we will also draw the public's attention to what you have to say about your course of action. It is incorrect to have broken the Constitution out for these low reasons. This is not correct, and I hope that you will not remain guilty to us today, although I must fear that you will do so again, just as Mr Vice-Chanceller and Minister of Finance Pröll did: avoid all the questions like a worm that is going through everywhere.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3234	To answer the question, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3265	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! State Secretary! High house! Honourable Members! I have just heard in detail how Mr Strache is concerned about the SPÖ. He'd rather worry about his unapproachable minaret games and cartoons he's bringing out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is more cause for concern. You have said relatively little about the actual urgent request for administrative reform. That's how important it is to you – or it's all. In any case, I have found considerable that you have said that more than ten years old are the Court's proposals and others in the field of administrative reform. Nothing happened, you said. To remind it briefly: 2000 to 2007, you can remember, nothing has happened. – This is your own billing with the time you held responsibility. But you don't want to be reminded of that, and I understand why. I wouldn't want to be reminded of this time in your place either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The starting position is clear: We are the country – and we are proud of it – in Europe with the lowest unemployment and youth unemployment, and we know that we cannot rest, because: What we are so proud of – that the economic forecasts, i.e. the forecasts of economic growth, which are provided and achieved by the enterprises and the workers in our country, have now been revised for the second time – needs political conditions. And in order to be able to finance these political frameworks of education, research, infrastructure and many other areas, it is necessary to have a budget in which to turn the euro twice before it is issued, or to ask whether it is not possible to provide public services more economically, in order to gain scope, to promote growth, but of course also to maintain social standards in our country – standards that seek from minimum security, poverty reduction to the broad middle classes of our country and to the health care of their own. In many countries as well as in many international conferences, this is a topic that in Austria is strongly influenced by these social standards, these social networks. That is why we need the administrative reform. It is not a self-evident purpose to prove anything to anyone, but it is there to deal sparingly with the resources in order to be more efficient in those tasks that we urgently need. Therefore, questions 1 to 4: Many of the Court's proposals also concern the countries. The list of 315 proposals to which you refer concerns federal and state governments. We also, of course, jointly have the task of discussing the proposals for the countries, knowing well that the competences in our country correspond to a federal structure – which has quite its advantages, but which, of course, also results in a special need for action in the case of double-tracks and in the case of overlaps of competence. For this reason, there are also discussions with the federal states and the representatives of the national Heads of State Conference to review double-tracking in all these areas, because many of these proposals are not only feasible with the possibilities of federal competence. You know that these discussions are between the Federal Government and countries, where everyone takes a stand, but where there are very important issues of education, research, many issues of care, health care, the financing of the communities, where we do well to address many of these Court's proposals, namely all those dealing with this subject. On the basis of the Council of Ministers' presentation recently, 30 individual projects with a savings volume of 100 to 150 million € were decided in an area that only concerns the federal government. I know it's not as spectacular as someone says: 3 billion € in the health sector!, knowing that it is also about more efficiency and not really about taking away 3 billion € somewhere with a grip and putting it into the Bundeskasse, but also that these proposals, if they are read exactly and not just added to the headings of the Court of Auditors' reports, bring much more differentity than those usually presented in these discussions. Companies were relieved by €500 million in 2010. These were measures in the Ministry of Economic Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour. Also in all the others: 180 measures for the debureaucratisation of tax returns, notifications, environmental requirements et cetera, which have been prepared and of which large parts have already been carried out. The health insurance recovery, which I was allowed to report last, has planned a cost-damage path for 2010 of €200 million and reached more than €300 million. By 2013: €1.7 billion cost reduction. This is not something, because cost reduction does not mean that you remove necessary things, but that you reach the necessary one with less effort in an area where costs are truly increasing, because progress – research, development in the pharmaceutical sector – creates many additional possibilities, but also additional costs. E-Government successfully implemented: Here, too, you can see that there are still many possibilities, especially in the area of the Federal Computers, such as the gathering of various institutions, which can be achieved with a common computer. This doesn't sound so spectacular, but is, one calculates the efficiency performance and the cost savings precisely, often under the line a higher economic performance than those that are addressed in so many colorful headlines. Deregulation in the field of legislation in general: Here the federal states have launched an initiative to send us proposals. We have sent to the representatives of the federal states the proposals made by the Court of Auditors, the countries or the superfluous materials, and we are now going through the subject of point-by-point field to determine: Where can we bring about deregulations without the task of quality? "No quality task" is therefore important to be mentioned, because it would be easy, of course, in the environmental field, if environmental standards were not to be improved, but to fall away – but they did not fall away – to remove some environmental impact assessment or some other procedure. It is, however, a question of improving the quality of the procedures in order to reduce staff costs, to improve the ability for customers, for citizens, for businesses who always need anything from public administration, and to make it possible for them to do so with less resources. Questions 5 to 7 concern the pension right of the countries. You know this is not subject to the execution of the covenant. There are still some differences between countries here. You could question your party friends in Carinthia. They are also affected. The Directors-General of the ÖBB and the ORF have made very clear their reform steps. Those funds that we have jointly decided for the ORF are also linked to concrete achievements which management, together with the Supervisory Board/Foundation Council, not only have to work out, but also to the defined requirements. The same applies to those responsible for the ÖBB, and I believe that it is not the task of parliamentary committees to advise the management of the ÖBB, but it is our task to make regulations on how we have designed the transport services in our country, how we want the pricing of the rails in our country, what we want to do by investing in order to shift as much from road to rail as possible. We are very precise about whether Court of Auditors reports and their suggestions are observed, but the work of management and supervisory board is done on the spot, and it is good if you do not politicalize this hourly. It is better if the political framework conditions are clear so that those who have their responsibilities there can also work in peace – whatever they do. And they have many reform steps and many changes to carry out these tasks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Questions 8 to 10 concern the staff work package. It is currently in preparation, but it is determined to save around 2,500 full-time staff in the Federal Service by 2014, with costs of around € 320 million, especially through non-retirement in the case of retirements. I already know that in other countries, much more radical action is being taken, in part, people are being cancelled, on the basis of mining plans, including young people, across. It is with us, because we have managed well and in view of our budget deficits, even the estimated one – if we see them in European comparison – we can say that we have always valued budget consolidation – not necessarily that we are setting out radical measures by which to shorten pensions or radically shorten them in other areas or have to make radical cuts through cancellations of people in the public service. Let us also be proud that we do not need this due to forward-looking and good economies! We do not necessarily have to talk about the fact that a reform is particularly good if people are cancelled in a row. No, it's going to be with fewer people where it's possible. By means of better organisation, more efficient administration, we can find the result of non-retirement in retirement. We even decided to increase the number of police officers by 2013. We have a value for justice officials who are directly involved in the fight against corruption – because this is a value that, of course, can also be supported from the framework conditions with the corresponding human resources –... – For which do you now think, “in your last government we need it in particular”? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Abg. Kickl: SOKO SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Kickl: SOKO SPÖ Vienna!]] I didn't really understand your call. Therefore, in order to make people available in the fight against corruption when information is needed – both for those who are innocently involved in such a thing, so that they can get out more quickly in the public debate, as well as for those who are guilty to be held responsible without any prominent or other factor – these conditions and these increases have also been decided by us. Questions 11 to 14: The work in the subcommittee set up for this purpose has been completed with a report. The discussions that result will be conducted by us in the next few weeks, and we will always be speaking and replying here. Question 15: We stand by Parliament's decision on the abolition of tuition fees. I would also like to remind you that at the time it was very likely that, for this year and also for the next year, and thus for the next year, the funding minister would, of course, provide for the refunding of the lost student contributions in the corresponding budget. That is to say, the decision was a double decision. It is not the withdrawal of money – and they are supposed to see where they are staying – but this Parliament has very well and rightly also the No, the money has been spent by the Federation together for this area. [[Abg. Amon: The money has already fallen away!]] – That if someone does not pay anything that is no longer available, I can, I assumed, assume. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to remind the House that the central financial resources in the scientific field in which they were used have been provided. On the questions 16 to 18: Analysis of the work... [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 15 is not about tuition fees, but about access!]] - Sorry, the answer to question 15 is of course also coming, but I wanted to sum up a few questions. I'll go into detail for you. Question 15: The abolition of the tuition fees and the decision taken in this context are the central point. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: University access! Access!]] I am for a university access that is not designed by Knock-out tests. In the field of entrance phases, there are discussions between the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education, such as these initial stages, because we cannot promise that there will be enough places available for everyone without any rules. We want more places to study. We do not want to introduce the tuition fees again, but we need access schemes that do not result in Knock-out tests. Questions 16 to 18: The analysis of the “Health and Care” work package was presented by experts in August and on 22 August. These topics will be discussed in a number of ways at the next meeting of the Consolidation Working Group. In this area, a comprehensive X-ray image has been shown to the countries and the appropriate facilities, enabling you to reflect very closely, to identify what measures are needed. But it would, I think, require a request of its own urgent nature or a meeting of its own to go through it in detail. I can assure you, however, that the date has been set and that the relevant documents have been prepared. On question 19: The Consolidation Working Group dealt with the chapters “Pension”, “Education”, “Efficient Promotion” and “Efficient Management”, “Health and Care” and “Task Reform and Structural Cleaning”. One example is the review of the Transparency Database Act, which could be completed just now, and which should come to the Council of Ministers in October, if the review is to be made possible. This is an essential point, because the strength of the transparency database, I have mentioned this before, is that we also receive the relevant data from the countries and communities in order to compare it, because how can we determine double tracking if we have only one track ahead? Therefore, the goal of achieving the transparency database will ultimately depend very much on the data we are provided by the countries and communities, namely to reflect our data. In this respect, I cannot promise you anything, because there are other participants for whom I cannot be found, according to our division of competence between the federal government and countries. But the political desire and expectations are clear, the objective is clearly defined, namely to determine some sort of double track. Question 20: The purpose of the ‘Austria talks’ is to push forward those materials, in particular those relating to the constitutional majority. However, I do not want to hide that I am convinced that there are a lot of discussions between the clubs and the Members and that they do not always wait for an Austrian conversation, but also do away with it in many other negotiations and discussions. [[Abg. Scheibner: We've been waiting for it for a long time.]] I will invite again to these Austrian talks – taking into account the calendar of those responsible – because I am convinced that we should continue together what you have said, namely that it has started well. I am convinced that, like the bank package in which we have reached a unanimous decision, the achievement of a broad majority in every point that continues to be supported. Joint discussions and open planning of the discussion are to be made possible. If this is also to be improved by me to provide more dates, then I also see this as improving and will focus on it. On questions 21 and 25: The Federal Government had already had several opportunities to explain to the National Council its reasons for the presentation of the draft budget for the next year by 1. ==References== Economic researchers have now actually calculated newer and better forecasts for the next and next year. Those who have said that we already knew everything and did only so, have now seen that there are actually changes. Politically good – that of course did not mention the opposition, so I mention it –: These are better forecasts. [[Abg. Street: Just before the choice, what a coincidence!]] This also has something to do with better conditions. [[Abg. You're just a coincidence! Whoever believes will be blessed!]] Of course, this has to do with exports not only with Austria, but also with a joint effort, for example, with our German neighbours, with external trade relations as a whole. I am now far from telling you that everything is going back to our economic programmes, but we too have done our job properly with the economic programmes, with the measures and as part of this joint process in Europe. Otherwise we would not have this improvement and could not include this better data in the design of our budgets. The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance announced that he was on 20 June. In the context of this declaration, a statement will, of course, be made before this House in the course of October to address the state of the debate and the relevant information. We have also prepared everything in such a way that the budget laws with 1. In January 2010 – there was and is also a discussion about the fact that these laws will come into force a little later – that there will be no delay. In any case, all these budget-related laws will be made with 1. ==References== [[Call to the Greens:1.1.2010?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's over!]] There may be a need for a transitional provision in one or another, but that will not depend on the entry into force of 1. January 2011 together. It will thus be shown that the point of whether the budget speech takes place a few weeks earlier or later, for the essential questions, for the law with 1. January 2011 can enter into force, has no relevance. By the way, the Federal President has also stated – as well as renowned constitutional lawyers – that a report on this status of negotiation, as he calls it – I can quote it – shows “clear and serious effort” by the government. I am convinced that we can demonstrate “a clear and serious effort”. Question 22 is easy to answer, with no. Question 23, which concerns fishing on the Constitution, is – vice versa – to answer with Yes. Question 24: Not only is the large majority, but the whole of taxpayers have a right to social, fair, forward-looking and, above all, to budget planning that takes account of economic conditions. On the question 26 – I have premeditated that first –: In my view, there is no negative impact on the economy, consumers or taxpayers through this process of discussion and scheduling. In summary, questions 27, 28 and 29: From my point of view, there is no threat of punishment from the EU either. We agreed with the EU's deficit targets. In any case, these will be achieved. On question 31: We are intensively discussing various reform models which I would like to discuss even more in detail with you. Perhaps the Austrian talks offer an opportunity to discuss this deeper. This is not possible within the scope of this request, but it will be possible to do so. I'm going to invite you to that. On questions 32 and 33: The aim is to ensure that countries also make their consolidation contribution. The details will be negotiated. What does that mean? – It is about the country’s commitment to comply with these limits or these requirements in its national budgets as part of the overall consolidation process. This is a discussion process that we cannot order, but our federal system provides for us to work on it together. We will not only seek an agreement with the federal states, but also, I am convinced, we will present it which meets this common need for consolidation. The same applies to expenditure limits of the resorts known since spring. Ministers will address this, and we will present a budget 2011 to the House in line with the budget path, taking into account the changes that we have known so far, and beyond, measures that are already foreseeable by 2014. We will thus prove that this budget path, which hardly any other country decides as detailed as we are, is seriously pursued and is predictable with appropriate measures. It is not possible to foresee everything by 2014, but it is possible to prove credibility by deduced from measures we are planning. I have already mentioned the transitional periods, which we will take into account when which are necessary. On questions 30, 37 to 51: These questions are the subject of the budgetary negotiations. I have promised that we will examine all these revenue and expenditure measures first from the point of view of social tolerance – that is what I can say for social democracy – and then, as a common government, try to reach a common outcome in joint negotiations. All those who say that there will be a large social reduction or that the purchasing power will be destroyed in the same way as in other countries – other countries often have nothing but the most massive savings to make even for small earners – be assured that we will take great care of both the purchasing power, investment and social compatibility. That is why, as I have said before, I am still on the table in terms of revenue-based measures on our proposals, which are also on the table in public terms: from wealth growth tax, asset tax, improvements necessary for social justice in the area of group taxation, foundation tax, manager salaries up to the deductibility of high salaries in this area. They are also part of our negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies, of course, to the bank levy. In this respect, we have reached an agreement; I do not question the €500 million. I know that some people in this house don't like that either of the coalition parties. Nevertheless, it is an agreement, and we have committed ourselves to providing for this 500 million bank levy in the budget. I also think it is good that the public sees that there are very clear rules here that, even if we use the word “income” which does not result in any mass taxes, which we are constantly subject to, with horning VAT, but that until now there is a concrete on the table, which is socially acceptable and justified, namely the bank levy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] The financial transaction tax is something that we in Austria cannot decide on our own for our suffering unless we would get through to a stock exchange rate tax. But a European or international financial transaction tax requires the approval of other Heads of Government, at least in the euro area – I would be pleased if it were successful – or at the level of the European Union. I was at a summit yesterday between the European Union and Asia, together with Russia, New Zealand and Australia, and I can say that there are more and more who are calling for clear rules that want to go in a direction that we call financial transaction tax, that is, contribution to crisis management. But I am just as open to say that the number of those who do not consider any rules at all, and the number of those who do not consider common financial transaction tax and similar contributions, both in Europe and at international level, is very high, and that the lobbys working in this area are encouraging us that we too – and I am proud to bear responsibility in a country in which there is a unanimous parliamentary decision – are, in accordance with our financial transaction tax, persistent, straightforward and warring.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3569	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Kickl has now come to speak. I'll set the clock on desired 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3597	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear watchers on the TV screens! The now staged applause of the SPÖ Group is obviously the first concrete result of the North Korean journey of comrade Wittmann in the past few weeks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There it is common for one to react in such a way to unemotional speeches of the party president. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, none of us have disputed – even in the past no one has disputed – that there is a lot of talk about a lot of discussions that there is a lot of chatter, I would say, about the subject of administrative reform. Her appearance was a confirmation of this thesis. Yes, that's all there is. What we have disputed in this regard is that something comes out under the line. And you have not been able to disprove that in a very excessive interpretation of your time management, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the beginning of your speech, too, you should not have taken the view that you are, as it were, among those who are bagatellizing the danger of Islamism and of threats that the people feel and feel as such are most likely to put their heads in the sand. We knew that too. That's what comrades show us day after day. I refer to Germany, to the debate that has been held there, to Mr Sarrazin, where there is nothing better to do than to deal with a party exclusion procedure, instead of finally rethinking and doing what the people call for to counter misdevelopments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I arrived at the administrative reform. I was really surprised today that you did not abuse the officials this time, as you do otherwise on such an occasion, because you are always happy to use the officials to somehow disguise and conceal your inability and your refusal to reform. If you had done so, I would have told you today that you and Mr. Häupl are quite the last ones who could claim the right to be the patron saint of officials, contract staff and magistrates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] This is precisely the point: They abuse these people because no one, and not even the Freedom Party, in any form calls into question the diligence and performance of these officials in the performance of the actual necessary services, in fulfilling what people need. This is not disputed by anyone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You and your trade unionists should take care of the problems on the labour market and try to prevent an avalanche of unemployed people on 1st September. May of the coming year will break into our borders. That's what you should do. But the union has nothing else to do, but to spread letters with falsehoods on the part of Vienna's election campaign and to frighten the people in the magistrates of the town hall from a threat that is not there. The only threat to the small and medium-sized officials and to the magistrates in Vienna is behind me and is sitting at the top of the city hall, in the shape of the mayor of Vienna, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They will not be able to explain to anyone that it is necessary to carry out the necessary tasks that no human being is facing, for example, a two- or three-class system at the city hall in Vienna, where the chief red officials who have all the privileges but have no work at all, and below are the masses of middle and small officials and the magistrates who have all the work but have no privileges, are unprotected and have to be servants of those above. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the two-class system you have introduced at the Vienna City Hall! In so far as I also say to you that I also understand administrative reform in this context in such a way that one can also take advantage of the privilege of removing one's minions – that is very, very necessary – which results in the liberation of the middle-sized, the small officials and the magistrates. We will need the energy of these people to deal with the misunderstandings you have committed in Vienna in recent years and decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to administrative reform and red tape, you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, are the same thing that you must be accused of in connection with the concept of justice, which you are using on a day-to-day basis: This concept of justice is misused, you bow, you defile, because, so to speak, you do nothing but use it as a camouflage and as a mogel pack for something that is in reality nothing but an attack on the middle class. When you implement the question of justice, which you so much like to talk about and for which you do so little, you are on the same road as on the question of administrative reform. You are, as it were, a huge announcement and a dwarf of implementation, because if you had implemented only a fraction of what you, as the head of government alone – I am not talking about your predecessors – for example, in the context of the “Austrian talks”, then we would probably all be witnessing in Austria the greatest administrative reform and the largest red tape and grain reduction ever seen by this Second Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A fraction of what you have announced, ladies and gentlemen, would have been enough, and we would have, if you had started this and had not talked for so long, as you have done again today, and probably made sure that nothing came out, that we could save ourselves very, very much money – money that should not have been taken away by anyone, namely those who need it, but money that would have been used there, where only privileges, coins and posts are defended that use you and you, the red and black and no one else in that republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons]] This is what we imagine under an administrative reform. That's where we're going, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only remind you that it was you, of which we were on 29.6.2009 – in the meantime we have the 5.10.2010; for the comrades: there are still exactly six ta until the red majority of the absolutes in Vienna have heard of the past – the following. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] And now I quote you: The discussion on school reform will take place in this year – we are talking about 2009! – fully managed. I hope – as in the health reform – for gradual decisions. In the case of health reform, the first decisions of savings will be taken in autumn. The school reform will take the first steps at the end of this year. That was in 2009 – now almost a year has gone into the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] What we have experienced in reforms is, as it were, a foregleam of horrors coming. Mr Financiary Secretary Schieder has already become self-employed with his magnificent idea to lock all hospitals under 300 beds, i.e. to close the well-functioning focus hospitals. For this, we're going to hit a new AKH, along with the associated scandals – that is, in Vienna in the new version “Krankenhaus Nord” – in the Pampas, where there is no transport connection or anything else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] This is your idea in the field of health policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] That's not what you're going to do with this country! If you hear anything about education in this country, we are talking about a permanent construction site. Wurst, where you look, from folk school to university: frustrated teachers, frustrated students, frustration everywhere – this is the result! You said you were going to take first steps. – Nothing has happened at all, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is likely that it has more substance to hand a fortune teller in Vienna's Prater to look into the crystal ball at €5 and to get these results than to say what you have announced to us in terms of administrative reform in the past. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, with such a reform when you start red tape reduction by building a new bureaucracy?! – It is a small example, but it shows how it works: They are setting up a new subcommittee to reform bureaucracy, to reduce red tape, and they have continued to blush the bureaucratic equipment. Then you probably thought that all of this didn't fit together completely, and then you banned this new subcommittee's work. – This is the way comrades address the question of red tape. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] This is not a caricature, but it is the reality of how you do it, and it would have failed to distribute the sleeves to all parties when a major announced administrative reform is launched. That would have been a symbol of what you did – or actually, to formulate it more precisely, what you failed to do. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm thinking about it. It is rather paradoxical when, for the preservation of a structure, a redistribution structure, a distribution machinery that has become in a certain way pointless – which no one needs, except your red and black fellows who have found a final site there and are “began to be provided” by your national leaders there – money is used and the preservation of this structure takes advantage of funds that are actually missing where they should be distributed by this machinery again. [[New call for tender May. Worm]] That's the way you do it. Tag Care Area, Tag Pensions, Tag 13. Family allowances: There is no money, but the infrastructure for distribution, red and black colored – depending on that in which state you look, once red-black-red, once black-red-black – this structure remains unattracted, ladies and gentlemen. We would need this money very much, especially for pensioners. And I can only give you an example of what I mean by how wrong the system works here and how you step in with the concept of justice. Wucherpreisen in Wiener Altersheimen – contribute to this You and your comrades are responsible, ladies and gentlemen! If you are staying there, and I am now talking about 9,300 people who are concerned, then you pay prices for a night like in a luxury hotel in Monte Carlo. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But that does not mean that this would be an all-inclusive service, but there you have to pay extra for the food, there you have to pay extra for...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3826	Mr President, you have already exceeded your speaking time. I'll give you a final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3847	You're giving me a closing point. – Thank you, ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has ruined the term “social” by making it “socialist”, devalued the concept of friendship by making it a party greeting, and devalued it...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3872	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said: a final sentence! [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Kickl.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Cap. I put the clock at the desired speaking time of 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e3908	Madam President. This is a problem with the conclusion of my previous speaker: If it's not important what you say, it's the main thing, you say it quickly, then you won't find an end – that was clear anyway. And so is the introduction of you. I would, however, like to come to the urgent need of the liberals. I've read this carefully; The fact is: You are quoting the Court of Auditors here, you are quoting other sources here, then ask questions, but it is not a single point inside where you are making a proposal! It's not a single point in there, not a single point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: We're not in government, that's you! Learn the Rules of Procedure!]] They only waver in terms such as “Straffung”, “Reform”, “Optimisation”, “Optimisation”, “Reform”, “Structure”, “Reform”, “Reform”, “Reform”. – If you translate what is in there and if it is legally possible, it means mass redundancies in the public service, it is said to “worship” officials there with wage pressure, that is, in fact less public services for citizens. [[Calls and calls between representatives of the FPÖ and SPÖ]] This is your policy for people and for citizens?- Oh, my God! After that you can't say! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Take one to explain the Rules of Procedure to you! That's embarrassing!]] If you don't want to hear me angry – even if you don't want to hear it – but if blue was in the government, it meant less than 1,000 police officers in Vienna, it meant less German teachers in schools, by the way, it meant three times as big immigration in Austria – from 20,000 to 60 000 – the pension has meant adjustments under the inflation rate. That was when you were in government. And make yourself today... [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You don't believe that any more! Mr. Cap, there you are too far...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] As many foreign seasonal eggs as never – 67,000 currently! –, increasing the rate of crime, falling the rate of Enlightenment: That was when blue was in the government. [[Abg. You don't believe that any more!]] And then you make yourself and give us talks on how to do something better?- Oh, my God! – That is inconceivable, inconceivable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I now give you very specific examples of administrative reform. Vienna has taken the passport, the fund and the reporting system from the police so that more police are on the street. Mayor Häupl has more enforced 1,000 police officers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Where are they? Where are they?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] - Don't laugh! Don't laugh! [[Abg. New builder: Rarely so laughing!]] You're gonna lose the laugh, 'cause the list goes on. You're not worth it! Look, when I think about what you're saying here, it means nothing but that we have fewer nurses, then the FPÖ action probably means: Take care of yourself! That's it. [[Abg. Strache:... in the field of training!]] If you have a leak in the water pipe, it says: Close it! Then at least one knows what task Mr. Kickl would have as a poet. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] Or if a small fire breaks out somewhere, the FPÖ action is: Delete it yourself! – I didn’t think of anything in the trash, but that might be Klubobmann’s street, if only every second house gets the trash transported away, and he’s left with you; I don’t know! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] In any case, I am telling you that this is not an administrative reform debate, as you have been trying to do here today. And on Vienna you have really tried to match that. They know that the staffing effort in Vienna has fallen from 2005 to 2009. You know the personnel level has fallen. [[Abg. Neubauer: The retirement age is 57! 57!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] - Listen to me astoundingly! You should have listened crazyly before the election campaign when you designed your comic posters! At that time you should have listened to me, because I would have told you what was done in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the very best thing is when you talk about the per capita debt in Vienna. Vienna has the lowest per capita debt! Vienna has 800 000 employees, Vienna has felt the financial and economic crisis and its impact on the worst, and in Vienna 200 000 people are working from the surrounding states. – Is that really nothing? [[Abg. Street:... the highest unemployment in...! ... the last place in...! ...the homeless!]] I wonder how slow it was when you were on TV at the "Kaiser": What do you want? Are you actually making worse in Vienna? Tell me the list at last. What do you want? You're making them worse? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is the crucial question. – Yes, not incredible. [[Abg. Street:... to the homeless! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Street:... homeless, to whom you...!]] And you can get your posters back here right now, because You know the following: From 2004 to 2009, there was a 45 percent reduction in new immigration; Citizens: minus 83 percent; Number of asylum applications: minus 35 percent. – Your artificial horrors do not work! Your poster stands are bending because that's all wrong. I can only see more loud shale poster stand from you, because they can't bear what you put there. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] But that's the truth anyway. There is an integration agreement! There are three hours of German for people who are here for the first time, for example, who come to Vienna. There is a immigration commission in Vienna. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Members Kickl and Neubauer keep copies of SPÖ records in foreign languages up to date.]] Look, you're making artificial realities and you're even beginning to fear your own realities. When you sit in the club, you're always trembling because you already have such fear of your own reality. That's the truth! That is not the way to inform the citizens! 6 500 new kindergartens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blow:... advertise in foreign languages!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... listen to the speaker!]] – Is this also administrative reform? Should we have fewer kindergartens? For example, we have passed a mandatory kindergarten year so that there is German education. There should be no first-class in folk school anymore, who can't be German. Should we save this? Should we save this? [[Abg. Strache: Why have you been in the last 16 years...? Why have you remained inactive in the last 16 years?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Administrative reform on blue means less German teachers. Okay, I'll take note of this. Then there is also less that can be German. – Yes, ask yourself! Don't always spread things that don't vote! And now I'm gonna tell you something: Yes, there are also problems. There are also things you need to improve. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] - Yes, yes! But we'll solve them, not you! You can't do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: 16 years you have the problems...! 16 years you have put the problems in the human beings!]] You know, I can tell you this: We are all currently talking to the citizens every day, especially in Vienna, and we hear a lot here. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] And there are many who simply don't lose what you're telling you – and rightly not because it doesn't agree with reality at all. But something is important to me in the context, and I have observed this a little bit today in the language you used: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] You know, I am one of those who are looking for the conversation with everyone here, of course also with you, and I am one of those who say that there are five democratically elected parties sitting here. I am in favour of this, and I would like to do so in the future, and we have done a lot of things together here too. But I find the anti-minaret game and what you do in the comics with the “When you burn up the Mustafa ane, you get a hate spent!”, that’s free. I don't think that's all right, so you can't deal with a election debate. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] And if anyone sees this and takes over and if something happens, then you should not sit down and say: [[Call the FPÖ:Save with your own...!]] [[Abg. Street: Talk to your violent young people!]] Hello, the crime rate is rising, but now we need more police! – I say to you: It can't be like that! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No, you should just move on the ground of a political culture, on the ground of a democratic basic consensus, and not say: I'd rather tell you something in the area, no matter what social and democratic price. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I can't hear anything anymore! I can't hear anything anymore!]] It's not acceptable! This is how the election campaign is set up, and I find it impossible to hold an election campaign.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4339	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. I'm setting the clock... [[Abg. Tamandl goes to the speaker’s desk and there creates a table with the title “Frischer Wind für Wien”.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A election poster is...!]] [[General unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Tamandel is speaking. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4402	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot stress a lot of what Mr Cap said. Only about what he said at the end of the comic book and the minaret game, I think we agree. But otherwise today you have already covered a little as far as the lobby for Vienna is concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are committed to administrative reform, Mr Strache, but there is no question at all that the federal government alone cannot make any savings that really bring much together. This means that the countries and communities have to play along, that is quite clear, and that should be so. [[Abg. Street:... head at the poster!]] It is only because of God's will that Vienna, as a federal state, as a city and as a community, would like to know most of all about reforms, but especially as regards the administrative area and there existing savings potential, Vienna does not want to know anything at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of bureau) This is an election poster!]] But there are plenty of possibilities, and they are just listed. In Vienna, every city councillor holds a troop...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4453	Ladies and gentlemen, I am told by the honourable Members that you have an election poster on the speaker's desk. The same applies to all: Just show me and move in again, so to speak. Thank you. Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4480	Each city councillor holds a troupe in Vienna. It can't be that, for example, a Waste Watcher can control impurities in public space, but then again for example the duty to bite and linen or this senseless dog driving licence or the dog straw itself is again responsible for the police. That can't be! We need... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What are you talking about, please? We're talking about the budget!]] Administration, Mrs Colleague, administrative reform! We are talking about administrative reform – if you had read through the urgents! Or, for example, the parksheriffs, which are responsible for different tasks. We need... – No, not at all! [[Abg. Strache: A dog stump police wants the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Strache: A dog's stump police!]] We want peace to be with this Kapperl theater. We all want to see in the same uniform! We want to have a joint force, a joint security guard under a joint Security Council, just as Christine Marek calls for, and that is necessary and important, so that our police in Vienna are relieved and have more time to fight crime again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second place, where one can save money with an administrative reform in Vienna, is for example the Wiener Gemeindespitäler. Without cost optimization, there really are millions broken! For example, within the last five years, religious hospitals have been much more productive and have done their homework in terms of business interests et cetera. Here too, there is no will at all for administrative reform. We really have a budgetary problem in Vienna, which has now shown itself again in the working situation of the midwives in the Wiener AKH, where even the head of the women's medicine and obstetrics in the general hospital sees responsibility at the municipality of Vienna. The competent city councillor, the KAV – the hospital association – no one takes a position on this matter. And also concerning the red union that has sent letters in the last days that they care for the staff is to say [[Abg. Lueger: For years...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Oberhauser]] That's not the case at all, and something just has to happen here. There is an IHS study that has found that cost optimization is necessary in the KAV. 190 million € could be saved! So, if we are talking about administrative reform, this must also be taken into account, because a look over the borders to Lower Austria would teach the city government a lot, and one could really take an example of that. [[Recent calls from Members Lueger and Dr Oberhauser]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, as mentioned earlier, the federal government cannot assume responsibility alone, even the countries must take part. And whoever always hangs around the coat of justice and talks about justice, he simply has to look at Vienna, for example, with regard to the unimplemented pension reform of the national staff. The pension reform of the Federal Officials has not yet been implemented and causes additional costs of € 350 million annually. And, ladies and gentlemen on the screens, what do you think Mr Mayor has to say about this? – Mr Mayor says: What the government has decided to do is not interest me at all, and that is why I am not putting it into practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] – This is a scandal, and it must not be, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if, on average, early pensioners retire at 57,1 years in Vienna – just as it happened in 2007 – and you retire in the federal government at the age of 60 on average, then you can very well speak of injustice, and here at last this pension reform has to be implemented. [[New call for tender May. Worm]] Finally, one thing is certain: The SPÖ government in Vienna failed! It is time that the SPÖ finally gets a government partner who takes responsibility for this city, and it is time for finally fresh wind to blow into the town hall, namely with Christine Marek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4621	The next item is Mr Van der Bellen. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4643	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Tamandl! It's known that there's a fight in Vienna, isn't it? On Sunday there are elections. A story hits me a little bit, so I don't know. So if Vienna should now take an example in Lower Austria, I must say that I do not wish Vienna. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Rädler as well as congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: You!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Me neither!]] Mr Colleague, take the financial debt report to heart! It's not from us, it's from the government debt committee. There are very worthy tables on the financial debt of the countries. Do you know which is the highest indebted country in millions of euros? You don't want to know. But that is by far Lower Austria, my colleague. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And if you consider the size of the countries, Vienna, Lower Austria, Carinthia in particular, it turns out that the country with the highest per capita debt is of course our beloved Carinthia. Why do you think? – This is the Haider’s FPÖ policy and policy since then. Next, close to Carinthia, the country with the second highest per capita debt is Lower Austria, Mr. Cot. Read a bit of data and statistics, but you're not interested in that. That's the typical thing. This does not interest a typical EIA country politician. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are numbers? It's got to be somebody else's numbers! The figures as such, the debt data interest the colleagues one – watch out, yes! [[Abg. Watch out!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. You're a populist!]] But Vienna, Mr Cap, on account of the lowest indebtedness, cannot speak of it. Vienna has the third highest debt per head, but this is clearly below that of Lower Austria and Carinthia, you are right again. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: No, countries and communities together you have to count!]] You can refer it to the countries or to the municipalities. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: You have to refer to everyone together!]] Mr. Cap has requested from the FPÖ – we are already used to the fact that the opposition should always deliver the proposals that the government itself does not make – proposals for administrative reform. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] So, please, for education, for school reform, there are proposals to a large extent: more autonomy for schools, both in terms of staff and hourly classification, more language training, not only in Vienna, but in general, but especially in Vienna, more teachers and teachers who will not otherwise be done with their new tasks. School infrastructure needs to be improved, they are not equipped for more all day schools, they are not prepared to offer the students lunch. A teacher, a teacher, has a job that is about the size of this DIN A4 paper I have in front of me. This is certainly all in the stack of proposals from the Education Reform Working Group, this "Administration new" working group, but there is no Council of Ministers decision and nothing at all. It is also not right what Mr Faymann said that the Committee has already been involved. The Committee here in Parliament has no opportunity to deal with it at all. But what is available in this context is Pröll and Häupl, especially Mr Pröll, flanked by mayor Häupl and other national leaders who want to take over the AHS teachers, who want to take over all the other teachers except the compulsory school teachers who already belong to the countries. [[Abg. Wheelers: With whom you want to rule!]] Mr Cap, what are you saying? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: No, let's say!]] What do you say about this attack on the efficiency of the administration? If there is one point that is criticised to Austria over the decades in each OECD report, in each IMF report, then it is that in the context of federalism, expenditure responsibilities and revenue responsibilities thus differ. Yes, for the countries it is great to spend, Mr Colleague of the ÖVP, the money that the federal government takes. And this system of inefficiency, including Erwin Pröll and Michael Häupl from Vienna, wants to be transferred to the countries. This is the opposite of more efficiency in administration. That is the amputation of the federal government, and it is the exception to the principle. I would have expected federal politicians, including Mr Faymann and Mr Josef Pröll. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In one point, the liberals are right: There are eleven work packages known to be available, and not one is now completed, not one. It has been working on it for a year and a half, but the government is not doing anything. This would not be so bad for itself if there were not so many areas where we didn't have time where we just lost time daily. This concerns the reform of kindergartens. This concerns the reform of schools. This concerns in particular universities and research in this country, of course also the contribution that the countries and communities can make here, including Vienna. If I hear this many times, these government statements to the 2-percent target! Hardly anyone knows what that means. According to official government statements, 2% of GDP will be achieved by 2020. That's 2 billion € more per year! And what does the Federal Financial Framework plan say? – Less than 100 million until 2014! This is Austrian research and education policy! We're losing time here. Here we lose a whole generation if that goes on. That's pure retro-politics. I would have expected something from Dr. Josef Cap. Minister Schmied said yesterday or yesterday that the goal must be just as it is EU objective: 40 percent of university graduates in Austria. - Yes, and? How do we get there? Did you lose a word about it, Josef Cap? We have more students, but more and more poor quality at universities. That's the fact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, the key to immigration. If there is an area that has to be international, then it is research, science at universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's all we've done!]] Wait! There must be international professors, international students, international researchers in Austria. – Yes, and what is the reality in Austria? A foreigner who concludes here, if he is not an EU citizen by chance, does not receive the work permit automatically. [[Abg. Big Truck: That's going to be changed!]] Do you want that, yes or no? - I'm for that. We're always talking about immigration as highly qualified. If they are trained in Austria, on the spot, do they receive a work permit? - No! That's ghastly! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Head.]] We must also ensure that the families of highly qualified researchers feel comfortable here too. This has something to do with the school, which has something to do with the work permit for the partner or the partner. Without this, we do not get to the world's top, colleagues and colleagues from the FPÖ, but we are sinking even more than we have before, in the province. And that can't be our goal. If you look at the last university, which one is the best German-speaking university? – ETH Zurich, the Federal Technical University of Zurich. Yes, they have which indicator you always take, a budget that is five to eight times as high as that of any technical university in Austria. [[Abg. Head: But not by the public hand!]] It can't go on like this. In terms of administrative reform, perhaps, or something that, strangely, does not play a role in the “administrative new” working group or otherwise, which in Austria is just a hort of inefficiency: the Austrian federal army. If there is something that promotes inefficiency, which steals people's working time and lifetime, without any special meaning, nowadays – nowadays! – then it is the general obligation to do so. It is clear, at the latest since the Federal Force Reform Commission under Helmut Zilk, that the tasks of the Federal Army have changed, have changed significantly, and that in this context the general military obligation no longer fulfils any purpose, quite the contrary that we need professional soldiers on time, volunteers on time. Throughout Europe, when you look at development, the trend goes away from the general military obligation to a volunteer army, to a volunteer army. Only in Austria for the time being. But I take away the media and congratulate the SPÖ that suddenly a rethinking takes place in their ranks, including the Ministry of Defense, the Minister, that this kind of idleness and this kind of dramatic inefficiency in public administration may one day be eliminated. I well remember a seminar, I don't say now where and when it was, not to identify the person where a brigadier, asked what he was doing, said he had to be transferred from the force to the ministry, because he had nothing to do in the force, and in the ministry he could now make the travel bill. A Brigadier! This is the reality in the Austrian federal army, and you could have devoted yourself to it for decades, but at the latest now, since you are the minister of the SPÖ, you should do so. Ladies and gentlemen! Independent of the speed and slowness of the administration: We must not neglect the areas of the future, such as education and research, kindergarten, schools and universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4898	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e4920	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A very interesting debate. A bit strange, it should happen in a few days some event, a seemingly very relevant federal political theme, spiced a little with the dogcot problem in Vienna. So it seems natural for the BZÖ, too, Mrs. Innenminister! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: For the BZÖ, too?]] There you give me a little wooden in my hand, I can tell you something right now if we're already talking about Vienna here. The problem of dog cot in Vienna was so important to your Members that in this federal budget debate, the debate on administrative reform no longer brought any other argument. But I'm right about you, and it's symptomatic for the ÖVP in Vienna: With this bourgeois party one will not be able to break the absolute majority of mayor Häupl. We can already see that very clearly. If you want to do so – and this also shows the electoral arythmism – then you have to choose a fifth party in the Vienna Landtag, namely the BZÖ with Walter Sonnleitner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Only then – Mr Van der Bellen, you know – will the electoral arythmism change in such a way that the mayor of Häupl does not have the absolute majority of votes, ladies and gentlemen, 45 percent. It's interesting how everything is being well spoken. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Will you step back if you don't go to the country day?]] Mr Cap rightly argues that, in her urgent question, she does not have any proposals for a solution to the administrative reform, but does nothing at all, except that, like Mr Bundeskanzler, he again addresses the government's horror between 2000 and 2007. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, that was one!]] [[Abg. Riepl: That was a terror!]] – Ah, yes, it was a horrendous blow; it seems to be learned in the Renner Institute, by autosuggestion, because the people always told you what you had for a catastrophic government and how good it used to be. – But Cap then argues exactly with the successes that we implemented at the time. If Mr Cap says that 83 per cent of the population had fallen, then it is true that the FPÖ was against it at the time, but it was our legislative proposal, a proposal from the BZÖ, which we have tabled together with the ÖVP, which has led to the fact that citizenship can no longer be relegated. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And, Federal Chancellor, if you address eGovernment: Yes, but this has not been born in your time of government, because nothing will be decided, Mrs Colleague, but it was one of our most important concepts to make a real contribution with eGovernment that one can save in the administration and help the citizen directly to his right. [[Abg. May. Worm: No, the BUWOG...! The federal flats have made you sick!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are the interesting things that we have here accordingly If you are addressing the BUWOG, then talk to your coalition partner, because that was a project of the coalition partner! [[Further call of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, that was an ÖVP minister back then. Ask for a question! [[Call the SPÖ:2004!]] Yes, 2004, where was he? There he was Minister of the Austrian People's Party. But I don't want to have a BUWOG debate. Just, learn a little story at the Renner Institute! A great party chairman has already guessed. This also applies to you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Mr. Federal Chancellor,... – Screaming [[Further call of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You don't come in like this! I know you're nervous, but again: It's good if you lose the absolute majority in Vienna, because it's absolutely governing, that's very bad, you can cover everything so beautifully. We want a little more transparency – even if you reject it! Federal Chancellor! If you are here for fear of this country election and the loss of votes, you are putting up everything we have been demanding for months to achieve real savings... – Ah, he's gone again. [[Call the FPÖ: He's gone already, Herbert!]] But his speech, the Secretary of State Ostermayer, will hopefully extend it to him. But that's also a little symptomatic: There's a little talk and then we'll get back home. This is the government's view of Parliament. Mr Ostermayer State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! So far, what has prevented you from implementing important, necessary administrative reforms? When we criticize – we all right here! – that there is a difference in the public service between federal and national officials, for example in the case of pension privileges, the Federal Chancellor can say nothing but the argument: That's not federal competence, that's national competence! You know, that was once federal competence, but through a constitutional law has passed into the competence of the countries! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, who is the Constitutional Legislator? - That's us here! And if the countries do not stick to tackling the reduction of privileges in the public sector, we make a constitutional law that it will again be federal competence! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's going to be You probably still know that's possible. And when it comes to saving administration in the school sector – after whom do you prevent it? Perhaps your heads of state who say that all of this has to be in national competence?- Oh, my God! [[Call the FPÖ: The Proporz!]] Let us not forget a level – as proposed by the Court of Auditors and your own Minister of Education! What prevents you from putting this into practice? We would certainly support this. And what prevents you from, for example, saving up on politics and saying: We don't need these big legislative bodies anymore, we don't need the big days of land!? – We have 100 country officials in Vienna, over 1,000 district councils! When you say, Then save once in the National Council! – Yes, let’s discuss it! I believe that we can also make good policy with half of the Members here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then there is no more BZÖ!]] Finally start with this discussion, too, and don't look like the rabbit on the snake just on this 10. October! Don't refuse the work! It is only possible to see what activities some institutions are developing. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He's just getting rid of himself!]] - No, I'm not taking away, Mrs. Interior Minister! If you are afraid of reducing governments and parliaments to their extent that you are no longer there, then you need to reconsider your performance, but not the size of the representative bodies. That's important, I think. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But one thing is interesting, also in your department and in others: this communication need of all these institutions. We now see page-long advertisements in the newspapers that point out how great everything is, also from the municipality of Vienna, from various community-based establishments. Vienna Energy, for example, now advertises for its own electricity, as well as the transport companies make zealous advertising. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Strange! Why, ladies and gentlemen, has there been a doubling of advertising costs in all these areas before the start of the campaign? Strange, Mrs. Colleague? Or does this also have something to do with the fact that you would like to be positive about these ads in reporting? There would be a failure to make a good policy, instead of trying to influence public opinion on taxpayers' money and on the money of the operators and the customers of the transport companies. But, Mr. Cap, if all this is so great – and I don't say that everything is bad, no, not at all – but if that's all so great, why does mayor Häupl need two things when he's so great? First of all, polarization with the FPÖ. Your outrage is really presumptuous. You're waiting for it. Where, please, is there a fight for Vienna for the mayor? Do you believe that you also lose the relative majority that you no longer have the right to the mayor? You have to be very defensive in such a campaign. And the second: Now he suddenly wants to discuss the military duty. It is new to me that this is a national competence or a community competence, ladies and gentlemen. We want and we can discuss the obligation to do so, but very objectively. We do not want to do it the way it is – no, we do not want to land it, Mrs Glavischnig, but we want a proper national defence. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You probably want to land them!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, the colleague Häupl!]] This makes us different from you. We do not want to abolish the federal army, but we want a modern, forward-looking state defense, and it is, from our point of view, without obligation, based on the principle of voluntaryity with professional soldiers and a serious militia. That would be interesting. – We can also discuss this! Only a few days ago, on Saturday, SPÖ's Minister of Defense, Darabos, gave a speech of praise to the military service. He said it was important so that the year 1934 did not repeat at some point. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we can only congratulate the officer on what the Minister thinks about them. – A few days later, for electoral reasons, because you don't think anything else, everything turns by 180 degrees again! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Today we give you the opportunity to enter the proof of truth – and this is also good and right that people should be involved in such important questions – whether you really want to conduct a People's Survey. We will give you the opportunity to support a request from us, and we will now also give you the opportunity, by means of a motion for a resolution which I am submitting, to agree with us that there is a public survey on the future of military service and a serious national defence. [[Quoted print version removed]] Now let's look at whether all this is just election tactics or whether you are really willing to take forward-looking measures for Austria together with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5187	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5257	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5278	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bundeskanzler – who you are not here right now, where you should actually be: as an information person here in the House – you have straped the word “unappetite” in connection with our policy. [[Abg. Strache: He's been gone for 10 minutes!]] I can answer you: Do you know what is inconvenient, Mr Bundeskanzler, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? – If Your party chairman on his posters writes that he is against speculators, while in your ranks Mr. Ruttenstorfer, who has been notified by the Financial Market Supervision for insider trading, has been conducted against the investigations. That's inapplicable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, do you know what's inconvenient? – If your posters say that you stand for justice, but then, when it comes to ensuring justice, together with the ÖVP, you decide to provide a huge rescue shield for the banks and the financial industry, while on the other hand, the Austrians are in the rain. With this rescue package, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, no one else has been helped but the banking industry. Not even the Greeks have been helped. It was about getting bonds placed by German, Italian, French and also Austrian banks that borrowed money from the European Central Bank by one percent to get 10 percent high-risk bonds. This is your justice policy! It's unappetizing, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing that's inconvenient: You are talking about transparency on your posters, you have announced that you will disclose your salaries. Where, for example, is your party attorney Jarolim, who has not disclosed his sensational salaries to this day? He's been guilty so far. This too is inapplicable: to say something different than to do then! Mr Klubobmann Cap, to you in particular, who used the word “unworthy”! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Inconceivable!]] Do you know what is unworthy in connection with this Vienna election? – It is unworthy that, for example, your Vienna countryman Omar Al-Rawi is standing at the Ballhausplatz, whipping Parols there and holding 10,000 Muslims. That there are anti-Semitic slogans taking place, that is unworthy, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! Do you know what's still unworthy? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – That for your party, the SPÖ, an Iranian-born rapper, named Nazar, advertises. He sings for your party propaganda. “... Mama... I’m staying in the street, continue to celebrate the 11th. ‘September’. You know what that means? – 3,000 people who have died due to an Islamic attack are celebrated by their contributors. That's unworthy, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The whole debate has an incredible distraction due to the sudden demand by Vienna's mayor Häupl for a popular survey on military service. – So far, so good, he just has nothing to do with it! But why not? The Freedom Party has always been a party that has made itself strong for direct democratic instruments, and if a People's Survey comes, why should not every party ask any question. The SPÖ could ask the question if one should abolish the federal army. She could also include the police immediately, because she always had an disturbed relationship with her. What was the best question for the ÖVP? – Whether the ÖVP should be pragmatized in permanence in the government? That too would be a variant you could ask. What can the Greens ask? – Drug release, right to vote for asylum seekers? Something they like, they'll find something. We will ask whether the immigration policy, as it has taken place up until now, should not be ended, whether a minaret ban in Austria should not at last come to an end. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget why we are here today. We stand here because a red and black package of horrors is to be hidden behind the parade of the Vienna election: Taxation of holiday and Christmas allowances, increased VAT, social and health cuts. – All this because you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, agreed to finance the speculations of international credit sharks, banks. This rescue shield has brought the banks into the dry – but the Austrians are now in the rain! This is the real reason why the budget for the coming year will be very heavy. You can't definitely prevent this with your Hernals fight rhetoric. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] I have once considered how it is actually about the tax burden in Austria. I do not take our figures as an example, otherwise you might come to the idea of claiming that they have been distorted, but we take the well-earned Austrian with a salary of €1 800 net per month. In order to receive this €1 800 net per month, its service provider must provide a gross sum of €3,541. Furthermore, the service provider must also pay corresponding contributions. In total, to get 1 800 € net in Austria, you have to spend 4 201 €. That's 55 percent of taxes and taxes that have once disappeared. Now we assume that person wants to buy a car. It's a family father, a little bit bigger, with a little bit stronger engine. He's considering a car by €20 000. This €20 000 includes 16 percent standard consumption tax, and the 16 percent standard consumption tax brings another 20 percent VAT on it, thus almost 40 percent in total. Based on €1 800, the said workers would have to work for you for almost four months, for the state, for the Federal Chancellor, for the Minister of Finance – for buying a car from his income, which has already been reduced by 55 percent. But he didn't drive a single mile. If he wants to drive, the insurance tax comes, the car tax comes in, the mineral oil tax is estimated to be about 50 percent, diesel and petrol on average. When he is on the road, the Parkpickerl that he has to finance comes in Vienna, the toll comes along, and if you get it off the SPÖ, the Citymaut will also be added. This is your burden policy, and I say to you: Every single euro more taxes, which is lifted by the middle class, is something unfair! This is a sharp rejection! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be right to offer the best earners and the banks and the financial sector very much to cash. That is why I make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's solidarity!]] With your support, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, you could prove how social you really are. How socially the city of Vienna will shape its future will be decided on next Sunday. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We have excellent mayors with Heinz-Christian Stracheen, who will ensure that this city will be led to a good future after decades of social winter, which will give the city a future in which the locals will return to the tone and not the hordes of people who will gather you from all the countries of the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5476	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Vilimsky is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5543	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. I'll set the clock on desired 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5567	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Around 70 percent of FPÖ voters would like to elect Heinz-Christian Strachenicht as mayor. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] This is how it looks, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: that even among its own voters of the Freedom Party Heinz-Christian Strachenicht is acceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this is the difference with our mayor candidate Dr. Michael Häupl, who is seen by many Viennans as a competent and responsible personality and will be elected mayor by them far beyond the party boundaries. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Can we put all this on the street? That's more of it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have to make a correction at this point: The per capita debt in Vienna as the federal state and municipality is €859, in Tyrol, that would be the next federal country, with the municipalities, the per capita debt is €1 972, in Lower Austria €3 863. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that Comparison makes sure: Where social democrats work, the money is managed carefully and the money is not wasted! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent question today is again a good example of the fact that there are no proposals for solutions from the liberals. They make policy on the balcony: Look at it, squeak it down and then go back to the hammock! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Specific work in everyday life is not your strength. Approaching isn't your strength. That shows this urgent inquiry! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The government has been trying for weeks to explain to you that it wants to create a suitable budget, with place for reforms and arrangements for the future and with balance for the population in Austria. Waiting for the current economic figures will make a positive contribution, the individual departments will create good work plans for the Austrians. [[Abg. New builder: You're a right-winger!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are limited to incite people against each other and then to point out with your finger that there are tanks and wares. Then step aside on the balcony and ride over the conflicts you have caused. Comics with unspoiled children must be rejected, are under any dignity in Austria. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Musiol.]] We Social Democrats solve conflicts and make people understand each other because we work on them every day. An example of this: Unemployment............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... – We fight unemployment every day. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who is “we”?]] As the chairman of the Vienna FPÖ Heinz-Christian is responsible for record unemployment in 2005, for an increase in self retention, and now he is once for a rich tax, then again against a rich tax, today the FPÖ calls it “millionaire special tax”. [[Abg. New builder: nonsense!]] [[Abg. New builder: You're talking nonsense!]] It probably always depends on which property your party leader is looking at, whether he is looking at an apartment in the coal market for 4 000 € rent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: So much nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank our thousands of electors on the part of the red Members, because the fights are committed to an absolute majority of the Social Democracy in Vienna because they know that German Chancellor Faymann and Mayor Häupl represent their concerns for the best and most complete satisfaction.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5734	Next, Mr. Dr. Maier. I put the clock on desired 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5755	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! This, of course, offers an opportunity to discuss a state reform and an administrative reform. Since one knows that there is a great potential in the countries, one should also look at the countries what I was trying to do. However, I am surprised to note that Mr Mayor Häupl is less concerned with administrative reform, but rather with ideas of a popular survey on military service, as we can see today from the “Kronen Zeitung”. Let me begin by saying to the ladies and gentlemen at home: This is not the choice on Sunday, but it is something completely different, namely the election of the socialists and the all-power here in this city! I believe that such a state policy question should not be debated a few days before one election day. I actually think that's very populist. And if you know that, according to the results of the survey, the data for the Vienna Social Democrats has been somewhat lower in the last ten days, you can understand that some nervousness and some kind of panic reaction are taking place at the mayor. Let me briefly evaluate the headline of the “Kronen Zeitung” of today and the quality of such a announcement, as an example of a headline of the “Kronen Zeitung” of 12. Last August, when Mrs. Brauner, in agreement with Mr. Mayor, told us that a commemorative concert for Michael Jackson should be held in Vienna. According to “Kronen Zeitung”, it meant that it was a unique advertising for Vienna, and it is very pleased. 600,000 tax euros have been made available for providing infrastructure. 85,000 visitors should have been expected to have been able to lock the square in front of Schönbrunn Castle and beyond the two roads to the West Railway. - All this! At the same time, some experts have asked themselves how removed the administration must be in Vienna, especially as one at that time, namely on 12. August, didn't know which stars really should come. So it was no wonder that exactly a month later, on September 11th, the following headline was to be read: “Michael-Jackson Memorial Concert threatens to become Farce”, entitled the “Berliner Morgenpost”. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Sorry, we are in the National Council, can you discuss a little more normally?]] - You'll be right there, Mrs. Deputies. The “Basler Zeitung ” wrote: Michael Jackson's concert will also be the disaster for politics. At the same time, it was pointed out that this city administration has registered Hohn and Spott all over the world. [[Abg. May. Rudas: The Vienna ÖVP also supports Michael Häupl!]] I'm quoting Michael Jackson's brother, Jermaine Jackson, for you to know: “I want to... Renate Brauner very cordially for her support... thank you. It has recognised the dimension of the event from the start.” [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Isn't that embarrassing to you yourself? You're being completely ridiculous!]] So much about the quality of the announcement made by Mayor Häupl in today’s issue of the “Kronen Zeitung”, which is a popular survey with regard to military service, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Now I don't understand something: What does this have to do with the obligation of military service?]] I'm asking you today: What does a children's theatre group say, what does a theater group have to make a promotion request to receive only €1,000? In the case I have previously described, €600,000 was for the disposition for an insanity project that so fell into the water. That is the way in which Mr Mayor's announcement, as I mean, will fall into the water! [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] I also believe, however, that it is important to point out that the mayor is responsible if the city of Vienna is planning to pass the metro station. – A special class tortoise stroke! I think he should also be asked how he believes that the Court of Auditors report is to be represented in connection with the Skylink at the airport. If a city party such as the Vienna Social Democrats in the Bureau of the Vienna City Party decides how the Board of Directors of a listed AG looks and how long it should be in office, I will tell you: There's no longer even that in North Korea! The Secretary of State will probably give me the right to say that this is, of course, incredible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Be careful! With Raiffeisen there is also that!]] It would also be necessary to ask whether Mr. Mayor and also Landes Captain, when he hears the airport, do not understand the station. In this context, the election on next Sunday, 10.10., will take the decision to choose a sparse, a slim, an efficient urban government and city administration. Therefore, I recommend to make the cross on List 2 line 2 at Christine Marek, the Austrian People's Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5876	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e5921	Dear Mr. Landtagsreiter Maier! Dear Mr. Landtagsreiter Cap! Dear Mr. Landtagsreiter Strache! Dear Mr. Vilimsky! – and like all local and district politicians who do not know what a National Council mandate is called in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. County Council Pilz!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Ex-Gemeinderat Pilz!]] I can only imagine that there must be an incredible disinterest in the big questions of federal policy, which is why you are so shamelessly using this house and a television transmission for the Vienna election campaign. This is not a good thing for this House, and it is not a good thing for you as a Member of Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Why do you think there is this session today?- Oh, my God!]] That the ÖVP is now worried about the Jackson family, which is certainly not one of them, namely a Vienna family or an Austrian family, is probably its own chapter, but let's leave it. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] A single federal theme plays a role in the Vienna election campaign, and with it we have to deal with it, and that is the question of whether or not on 3 March. In January 2011, hundreds of young men will again be forced into military service, against their wills, against any sensible security policy and against any economic and educational reason. And that's why – and I really don't care about the motive, of course, it has to do with election struggle – I basically think Michael Häupl's proposal is reasonable. I also believe that there should be a popular survey on this, yes, because, as in education policy and as in many other policy issues, I have experienced that, in view of such federal governments, the majority of the population is almost always more reasonable and enlightened than the majority in the Austrian Federal Government. And that is why it makes sense to turn to people, and that is why I am also submitting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the SPÖ, but not only of the SPÖ: This is a Polish nail sample! This amendment will be voted here in the House today, because the Rules of Procedure so provide. And the people who follow this debate will be able to take a very precise picture of how seriously the support of the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Defence and the Clubobmann of the SPÖ, is for the proposal of the mayor of Vienna. Do you really think it's serious? Do you really want people in Austria to be questioned? – Then you will agree to this request, and then you will, together with us, award a mandate to the Austrian Federal Government, namely a request for a People's Survey, as the Federal Constitution provides for it to be sent to the National Council. Then you will make use of this right, and then we will have an exciting phase of discussion, not only in this House and not only on the question of compulsory military service, but on all the major issues of Austrian and European security policy, and at the end of the day the last word will be with the Austrian people, with the women and men entitled to vote in this Republic. And then we'll all stick to this decision. That is a good offer, and I would be glad if one of three parties, SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ, in an unreasonable way managed by Vienna, might have a positive result, namely thousands of young men – there will be 24,000 young men again next year – of a completely useless forced service! Imagine: Last week, the Serbian government in Belgrade decided to abolish military service in Serbia! In Germany it is suspended. There are almost no EU countries in which there is no military obligation at all because we do not have a simple problem, especially as Austrians, surrounded by EU partners and Switzerland and Liechtenstein: There's no more enemies! Mr Darabos, take note at last that the enemy has come to us! We must not force 24 000 young men into military service each year if there is no enemy. So we ask the Austrian population! Let us note that in democracy the people of this republic have the last word! And I urgently ask you: Please agree to our request! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6022	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz has been sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6109	After a brief consultation with the Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I note that without prejudice, I am already voting on a question of support for self-employed applications. A self-employed request made by Members of Parliament regarding the conduct of a popular survey on the maintenance of military service has only four signatures, namely those of Members Bucher, List, Scheibner and Petzner. There is therefore a lack of a signature, so the application is not sufficiently supported. [[Call the FPÖ:Punish!]] Therefore, according to § 26 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to support this request in addition, so they have not already expressed it by their signature to give a sign of this kind. [[The representatives of the BZÖ shall rise from their seats.]] - Wait! Those who have already signed, please sit down! [[Mr Bucher, Mr Lister, Mr Petzner and Mr Scheibner are taking up their seats again.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] – These are seven Members, whom we also hold: These are the representatives of Westenthal, Stadler, Dolinschek, Huber, Haubner..., Schenk..., Spadiut. [[Calls: Gift]] [[Calls:Spadiut]] Thank you. I'm a little slow today, I know. The application is now sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. - You must apologise: I am very cold and therefore I have almost no voice. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. I'll set the clock to 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6181	Madam President. High house! First of all, I would like to say that we have now seen – and that is why we have chosen this procedure – what is to be kept from the announcements. All of a sudden, the Greens have not wanted to know anything about the abolition of compulsory military service. - Well, what's now? Don't red either! Red has opened the debate today with the “Kronen Zeitung” – better to say, Black has started with it, Spindelegger, and Red has believed that this is an election topic. – You can see what you have to think of it: When the sample is made on the sample, you sit down. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But in the Stakkato a few remarks about the previous debate: Klubobmann Cap is right when he says that this proposal does not contain a single proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! The difference to such debates earlier, under Haider, is that, if we have conducted such a debate and have forced a special session, it has made proposals by Jörg Haider. That's the difference to strache. Anyone who's been in the house for a long time will be able to confirm that. Not a single proposal from Strache! - First Stakkato. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Request for urgent procedure!]] Second staccato: That's what I've been waiting for, whether something might come in the speech. I have discovered the following proposals in the speech about Strache: In the seventh minute, he proposes: saving expenditure. – I’ve never experienced that you can save income on the revenue side – that’s to say, you don’t have revenue. Expensive saving – the enlightenment of the seventh minute! Tenth minute: 315 Court of Auditors proposals. They're already in there, he hasn't even read them himself. He says: No to hospital closures, but don't even say how to finance it. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Ah, the BZÖ is for hospital closures?- Oh, my God!]] Twelfth minute: All of a sudden, he came to the privileges of the National Bank! This can help to reorganise a state with the abolition of the privileges of the National Bank?- Oh, my God! - That's absurd! ==References== He came to Marx and Murks for a minute – where he probably writes “murks” with “x”. 18. Minutes: Then the foreigners were on it. To now! 18 minutes, beaten 18 minutes it took this time until finally the foreigners became the subject! And then Mr Vilimsky has gone up to saying that whole “hords” of foreigners are endangering the administrative reforms in Austria. – He said! Whole hordes of foreigners! Ladies and gentlemen, are your new Serbian friends at these “hords” of foreigners, from the new liberal-Serbian association, where your political group member Andreas F. Karlsbüca is the Cassier? [[Cheerfulness and applause at the BZÖ]] – What are you talking That's wrong. It is in Serbian “Andrej Karlobükovic”. That's the right name if you're already making Serbian, my Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: There they will rejoice in Ottakring!]] That, so that the spectators know, the FPÖ is only against foreigners if the foreigners do not freely choose. If they believe they can win a few Serbs, then they are suddenly for Serbs in Austria. – That so that everyone will know, ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ is also constantly opposed to red, posterated against red, but if Mr Voves makes an offer to them, they can hardly expect to be let into the coalition bed, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – So much about the credibility of the FPÖ. And by the way, and this is remarkable, no one has a speaker from the SPÖ, and none from the ÖVP – they have discovered dog stumbles and Michael Jackson as an election theme, ladies and gentlemen, or Michael Jackson has been spiced with dog stubbles; I have not become so clever of what the blacks really want – real arguments. You cannot risk an absolute majority of SPÖs, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You won't believe that. There you can still have so many yellow cloths hanging around your neck: That doesn't mean you're in danger of an absolute! There the head can sleep quietly when it comes to the blacks. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is, the only thing that can actually endanger the Absolute – that is a electoral question, everyone can understand mathematically – is when a fifth political group enters the state day in Vienna. Then the Absolute is actually there, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] That is why I say to you: It was already treacherous, Mr. Cap, that you didn't say anything about it. – The fact that there has been no loss of a sentence to military service is clear anyway – the subject surprised him, since he has now been caught on the left foot – but that you have not said a sentence to military service is surprising. Don't black out, as I said, they have dog stumps and Michael Jackson, but at least you could have said something about military service. The only ones who really say that they are in favour of the abolition of compulsory military service, and which is then expressed by a vote, were we, ladies and gentlemen. That's the difference, and I want to hold on to that so that the voters can see it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I ask colleagues that they do not make any proposals, I will bring you a few proposals. And now look out, Mr Cap: Abolishing the President's role – we don't need him anymore. We know at the latest since Thomas Klestil – Mr. Col. Schüssel! – that we can also form governments against a Federal President. So: Absence of the function of the Federal President, merger with the function of the Chancellor. Let's start at the top. Union of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. If you abolish the military duty, you can also use a section in the Ministry of the Interior to manage the military, my Ladies and gentlemen, or at the Federal Chancellor's Office – I'm not picky there! Security or Federal Chancellery, a section is sufficient in the future. Further proposal: To abolish long-term obsolete authorities. Remember that you used to have your own mountain captain team? Then came the disaster of Lassing, and then you finally abolished the mountain captain team, because it did not prevent the disaster of Lassing. Who's missing the Mountain Team? Who would miss a mayor's captain? Who would miss a financial procurator, where there is a bunch of freelancers for this? Who needs an office for sequencing and surveying? – This can be done just as well by any civil engineer, most of it cheaper. Who needs a work inspector? Who needs business inspectors? This can be done as well in private, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Rädler: Who needs the BZÖ?]] Who Needs Water Supervisory Authorities? Who needs them all if the private can do just as well? [[Abg. Rädler: Who needs Stadler?]] In the construction process, architects have been involved in the process and have delegated tasks to them in the form of the award. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, who needs a second chamber in this house? I ask you: Who needs a Federal Council except for the members of the coalition parties? Who needs special authorities with judicial intervention: the school Senates, the basic traffic Senates, the agricultural Senates? All these Senates, up to the asylum Senate, who needs all this, ladies and gentlemen? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The Federal Chancellor's Office has already proposed!]] You've already suggested it? – Hurra!, the Federal Minister has discovered that she is finding a proposal with us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] She has already proposed it, but unfortunately nothing has gone on. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the BZÖ does not have the majority here in the house – unfortunately! – but you, together with your coalition partner, have the majority. Then why don't you do it? Why Endure Is it just you on the proposal, ladies and gentlemen? And you could take up a lot more proposals. I would like to give you an example of social democracy, ladies and gentlemen, because it was your concern in the 1920s: To tighten the municipal authorities, to bring together administrative communities, to municipal associations in the field of the performance of sovereign duties, of course! Yeah, but too little. [[Call to the ÖVP:Should...!]] It would go much more, go much more, go much more efficiently, I could bring you dozens of examples. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No idea of the mayors!]] – I have enough idea of the mayors! It's hardly going to happen in the administration where as much as at the mayor's level, believe me! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ask the citizen outside! There is hardly any level where there is so much friendly economy and so little assessment of what the law is about, as at the level of mayors, ladies and gentlemen. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] – Of course you're all yelling up! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or the old proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, from the local community: When will it be implemented? Mr Cap, look at Article 120 of our Federal Constitution! With regard to the municipality the SPÖ did not prevail in the 1920s. Why Grab hold You don't re-open this sensible model? There is no need to remove ortskaiser as a “großaugust” – they can continue to play “Grüßaugust”, that is what they can really do. It has been your proposal to do the sovereign tasks in territorial communities. Check the history of the Constitution! The SPÖ's main wish at the time at the Constitutional debate in 1920 was the creation of a local community. It still stands in the federal constitution, in Article 120, but it is dead right. That's why I'm saying: Come on, come on. Come on, come on, come Today, this would allow a modern system of local administration to save the local community in order to save administrative costs. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I have made the effort – you can understand – and I have once determined what an average district capital in Austria has for authorities. For example, I took out Amstetten. There are in Amstetten – every citizen can check this in the phone book – a total of 19 authorities, either state-owned or outsourced, 19 authorities and administrative facilities including the city office plus BFI, plus public college, plus court, we come to over 20, two hospitals that are managed separately – alone in Amstetten! –, 22 schools, all of which are managed separately; three of them are from the field of federal legislation, and the rest of the 19 are from the field of national legislative competence. Ladies and gentlemen! It's called efficiency! This is the case in a single district city. If you calculate this now, you'll see what kind of hugely bloated equipment there is and what savings potential there would be here if you were to return to the old model of the authorities of the general government. This is a modern model, it can be implemented by the computer without further delay today, and it would be possible to lead these authorities all more efficiently. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only problem is that there are loud black and red district skiers, ortskaisers and service managers who would all lose their job if they were to make the organization rational. And that's why you don't want to change this structure because it's your power structures, ladies and gentlemen. And the citizen should know that! Every debate on administrative reform ends immediately when the interests of power are threatened by red and black, and therefore there is no administrative reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6432	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that it is not a use to horn names. I did not interrupt you, but in the specific case, you did this with the name of Mr Karlsböck. I'm asking you to stick to the fact that we don't. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, that was a sergeant!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a quote, please!]] Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6477	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly on the remarks of my predecessor. First of all: Every voice for the BZÖ in Vienna facilitates the SPÖ to get the absolute majority of mandates. This is a logical thing, because every vote for a group that has no chance at all of moving into the country day makes it easier for the strongest party to already get the absolute majority of mandates with fewer percentages. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Petzner: In mathematics you must have had a spot!]] – I was very good at mathematics. Thank you for pointing out you didn't understand. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] A second point is that my previous speaker was already in the first minute – not only in the 18th. Minute – was captured by his strache complex and therefore only talked about strache. - But that's enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tatamtamtamtam! Do you want to let her in?]] The urgency of our request clearly shows the state in which it is in, in particular, the debt of the state. It is so loosely spoken here and the Federal Chancellor is pressing for answers. The fact is, however, that already in the Federal Financial Framework Act in May this year it was decided to make further debt of € 45.2 billion over the next four years – € 45.2 billion new debt! We are already paying more than €7 billion per year only for interest. This is about 10 percent of the revenue that is spent only on interest. This now increases to 16 percent by 2014, and it is quite possible that it will be the 20 percent – 20 percent of the revenue used for interest only! What this would mean, for example, for a private household – which might earn €2,000 a month and then spend up to € 320 to €400 only on interest rates – would mean that such a household would in fact no longer be eligible for payment and could no longer work. This clearly demonstrates the urgency of our request, and we have seen: There was the crisis, which is now supposed to be solved – I am still very skeptical – and suddenly one had the impression that there is also a serious discussion about how the state needs to be built up and where it can really be saved. There was a short window – and then again that happened, which happens all the time. The government has delayed budget creation, it has been said: Let's see if we get even more concrete, newer numbers. See, now there are better numbers, better forecasts, and everything has died again. I must say that it might have been quite good to prepare the budget in time, to discuss it in time, because then it would have been in the spirit of real savings and not as now in the spirit again: Everything's going on anyway, and we can throw the money out the window! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have hoped that the sacred cows of this Republic will once be looked at, that we will really search through the administration and that we will go through points of point, which institutions and which authorities are required to what extent. It all died again. An essential reason for the state being in this state is at least to blackmail the distribution of taxes and the possibility of countries taking the federal government hostage through the tax compensation. It would be an interesting idea, at least in part, to hand over tax sovereignty to countries so that there would be real competition, and thus the countries would once again be able to negotiate with their citizens and to clarify to their citizens why they need these tax revenues at this level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] This would be a very interesting approach, because the countries are making a very big contribution to increasing the deficit. Today – of course, so soon before the election – Vienna has already come to the fore. Vienna is making €800 million this year. Mr Cap has explained with great zeal today how good Vienna is not, but he has kept a lot of things quiet. With one he's right: Vienna is a wonderful city, especially for tourists and top managers. However, when they come to Vienna, they enjoy not the things that the Socialists – or, as they are now called – have created, but the infrastructure, the drinking water, the buildings, the St. Stephen's Cathedral and the administration they have already found. [[Abg. Neubauer keeps Alice Schwarzer’s book “The Great Hidement” up to date.]] In reality, the citizens who come to Vienna enjoy this, and Vienna is appreciated for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, there is one that has really done social democracy, and that was the social housing, the municipal buildings – financed by the Vienna for the Vienna as a social housing. And what has become of it? – First of all, new community buildings are no longer being built, and second, they are actually only awarded to immigrants, not to their own population, and there too the SPÖ Schindluder operates with its own achievements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Musiol: Is also your own population!]] How “good” the SPÖ governs in Vienna is seen from the fact that there are clearly the highest unemployment rates in Vienna. We have the highest unemployment rates in Vienna, and the trend is rising in Vienna, as opposed to the other federal states. During the time of Mayor Häupl, in the last 14 years, jobs have actually been lost in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] While 330 000 new jobs were created in Austria, 3 000 jobs have actually been lost in Vienna. This is the socialist policy in Vienna, which cannot be said well, but which must be chosen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In Vienna it's really about a lot, in Vienna it's all about the SPÖ. It is about keeping Vienna and the Vienna under the pressure they have, from the cradle to the Bahre, as it is so beautiful. All over SPÖ is inside, from the kindergarten to the apartment, the workplace, the retirement home, the cultural life – there is SPÖ in it everywhere. It is the SPÖ's aim to continue to have this opportunity to operate its own companies, to operate its own company network, to continue to support party propaganda through the nearby and urban enterprises. That is why it is happening, and it is only with the absolute majority, and it is precisely that this absolute majority must be broken.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6598	Your final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6620	So if you really want Vienna to remain the city of Vienna, and if you want the socialist government to be pushed by the high Ross, you can only choose FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6647	Mr Scheibner referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6677	Ladies and gentlemen! In his election speech, Mr Stefan claimed that any vote for the BZÖ would facilitate the absolute majority for Mayor Häupl – well, of course! – and therefore is a lost voice. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Please go! That's not a real thing!]] – This claim is incorrect! On the contrary, as long as only four parties are established in Vienna's Landtag and municipal council, Mayor Häupl has the opportunity to obtain the absolute majority of mandates even with 45 percent of the votes. [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Only then, if the BZÖ brings a fifth party into the country day, the absolute majority for heads is certainly gone.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6718	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a further actual correction. Stadler to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6742	Mr President. Thankfully, they have made me aware – I am happy to agree – that I have misquoted an association registry extract. The cashier does not mean Andrej Karlobuecavic, this blue Serbian association is in fact called “Christian-Freedom Platform for a Free Europe of Sovereign Peoples (CFP)”, and I have mis-called the cashier. [[Abg. Weinzinger: No! That's not what it's all about!]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: This is a scandal!]] The cashier is not Andrej Karlobücavic, but Karlsbüca Andreas F., Dr., and this Karlsbüca is only by chance perhaps our colleague Karlsböck from the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6796	I call Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6820	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last actual correction we have seen: It's just that some of them do it right now, isn't it? If it just fits in, it's okay if it doesn't fit in, then the same ones are the bad foreigners who are responsible for everything. This urgent, ladies and gentlemen, is the usual pipe recorder. It is a noble tube-creper – and I would like to stress this with all clarity – because what has been said here today by the Freedom Party, what has been brought into the discussion here today, has nothing to do with any proposals, that has nothing to do with good ideas for the future, that is not even a competition for better ideas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kurzmann.]] That's nothing at all. This is the usual conclusion of arguments that we already know from the past, and therefore I say to you: This urgent one is a pipe-creper – and everyone who sees it will also take note of this and see perfectly clearly that this is so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: (newly keeping Alice Schwarzer's book “The Great Hidement” in height) The truth will free us!]] They therefore come back with the usual arguments, with the transitional periods, over that we already have on the 16th. It was discussed in June. You've tapped the same lavender as you did back then, for better knowledge. You know that very well! If we were to do this the way you want it, it would mean a serious infringement procedure for the Republic of Austria – and you really don't believe it yourself. They only want to sell people and voters for stupid – and that's what people actually realized, and that's why they will also present the bill to you. [[Abg. New builder: you're selling it! ... trade unions!]] These urgent ones would have been a good opportunity to reveal once your relationship to the subject of distribution justice. And if I look at the motion for a resolution you have tabled today, I have to say: It has been beaten for a time again – once in a while in the other direction. In November 2005, Mr. Strache declared in the “press hour” that a rich tax was the command of the hour. In August 2008, he declared in Upper Austria that a wealth growth tax was an absolute nonsense. A year later, in September 2009, he said that out of the foundations you could take €60 billion. [[Abg. New builder: Abbreviated! That's a false statement!]] And this August he said again that he was against a rich tax. – So once and for all, how it fits and who you want to protect right now. [[Abg. New builder:... Rich tax for 300 000, 500 000 and 1 million €!]] And today a dubious motion for a resolution is being tabled, in which no one knows exactly what it means and what you really want to do with it. They have an disturbed relationship with distribution justice. They really want to know if it's fair. But I'll tell you one thing: In the course of this election debate in Vienna and previously in Styria, they insisted that the proposals on the part of social democracy on the bank tax, on the foundation tax, on the capital increase tax, on the asset tax for assets over € 1 million and on the financial transaction tax, i.e. more distribution justice, on greater justice in the population, are very good in this society, because over 70 percent of the population find this class. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Because you didn't have anything to do with this because you've been driving a zigzag course for the last half of the year, you've been thinking: Well, now we have to make a urgent request before the Vienna election! – And that is very, very transparent and transparent. And if you... – Yes, I tell you that. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That you have lost the choice,...!]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, What the 13th and 14ths. In terms of salary, tell some lavender and any G’s layers about that anyone wants to tax. Tell me why there's a 13th and 14th. salary at all! This is what trade unions negotiate annually as part of the conclusion of collective agreements. 13th and 14ths. In fact, salary is the performance that is achieved in the negotiations, together with employers, and you do not need to pretend that this is something that is being questioned. It will not be questioned by any of us and will play an important role in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer:... Pensionists!]] But when someone says to the start of the wage rounds in a way like the liberal economic operator Amann: If the union doesn't get the neck full enough, the bites will get stuck sometime!, then you know exactly what this FPÖ stands for, and you also know very well: If you want a good future as an employee or employee in this country, you can't choose the Freedom Party, but then – not only on Sunday, but especially on this coming Sunday, because it's about Vienna – you have to give the vote to Social Democracy and Michael Häupl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6961	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e6992	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to express my concern, namely my concern as a military officer of this federal army. The army - I believe we agree on this - is one of the truly important institutions of this state. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: How was the shortening, Mr. Colleague?]] It guarantees security and assistance in the event of disasters. This army must be too bad to make it an instrument of voter mobility in Vienna for a mayor who is already under massive pressure. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to express this concern, but I would also like to address the following to Mr Pilz's address: He's always talking about loud forced young men. I myself took part in exercises for 30 years, and I liked to do that. At the time, I volunteered for officer training, and I say to everyone here – to you, Peter Pilz, and to all television viewers: The majority of the young Austrians and now Austrians are happy to make this service with dedication because they want to make a contribution for Austria. [[Abg. Where do you live, Mr. Scheibner?]] You, Peter Pilz, didn't do any exercises, but I did. – Therefore, please grant me credibility in this regard! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If I were mayor Häupl, I would also focus on other topics, namely those that really move Vienna. One of these issues is that in recent years, Vienna's economic location has always fallen short of competitiveness, both in comparison with the federal states and, above all, with those cities that compete with us for business settlements and, above all, with jobs that always concern them. I call you numbers from the latest location RADAR of the “management club”: In the attractiveness for investors and entrepreneurs who want to settle, Vienna is behind the Austrian ranking. Only the Burgenland is worse. Lower Austria, Professor Van der Bellen, by the way, is second. Vienna is losing even more than the previous year’s result – and this is the biggest deterioration in a regional economy recorded by the RADAR for 2009. If you know that the economy in Vienna has only grown by 2.2 percent in the years 2000 to 2009 – Mr Cap, because you have talked about everything very nicely before – while in Austria it has grown by 2.9 percent, in the best federal states such as Upper Austria by 3.3 percent and in every metropolis in competition with Vienna by at least 3%, then you have to say clearly that it has a direct influence on the most important thing for people – also in Vienna – that is to say, the jobs. Vienna has lost jobs, the federal states have gained jobs. Why is that so? – Now I come to the topic of the form of bureaucrats: Because Vienna has an overarching bureaucracy that does not regard itself as a support and service for companies and businesses, but manages the economy and the companies, administers them, and often administers them to death. One example: An operating permit lasts an average of 122 days in Vienna – say and write 122 days! In Lower Austria it takes an average of 75 days and in Prussia 66 days – half the time, and time is money in the economy! So where is an entrepreneur located: in Vienna or in Lower Austria? – In Lower Austria, and we must be glad that he is settled in Lower Austria and not in Prussia! Vienna therefore has a major task ahead of itself as regards the form of bureaucrats. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How does the city of Vienna finance the bureaucracy? Instead of reforming it and slendering it – at least it has twice as many officials as the entire EU – that is not true! , they pick up citizens with fees and charges. [[Comments from the Government Bank:]] In Vienna, citizens are asked to pay the cash desk fees, which reach the top values in Austria. In Vienna it is on average 700 € per household per year – say and write 700 €! – which are to be delivered to finance this overwhelming bureaucracy, while in the federal states there are an average of €450. This means, in old Schilling, that every household in Vienna in the year 3 000 S has less in the budget than it is in the federal states. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] Therefore, I now ask to bring fresh wind to Vienna the next Sunday, thereby giving impetus to the economic location, thereby finally reforming the bureaucracy and bringing it a new service family for the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7100	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7122	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The administrative reform has been working on us not only since today, but for decades. Mr Cap, who is probably one of the most old Members here, has probably led this discussion here more often. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is all the less surprising that you have today more devoted yourself to the Vienna election campaign and not to the topic. For more than a year now, we have also set up a committee to deal with administrative reform intensively. The result of today's day is: This committee has failed – but not because the people who were sitting in this committee did not want to work – at least not all – nor because the experts who were invited – including country representatives – have not worked constructively, quite the contrary. The subcommittee, which has been involved in school reform, has clearly shown that one is very agreed in the analysis – Mr Van der Bellen has already done so – and that there is also quite clear where the break-off points are. But that's what you've got used to. ==References== This committee has not been able to do so again in April. Federal Chancellor! Unfortunately, you are ill-informed if you say that this committee has ended up with a report. The opposite is the case. ==References== This committee last spoke to the two ministers last April, and since then nothing has happened, neither a report nor a government proposal, nor any agreement between the parties, nor even another date to discuss the other ten packages here in Parliament. If you look into the Internet, you will find this subcommittee on administrative reform on the Parliament homepage on the unfinished items, and he has probably earned this name. However, we do not want to deal with the academic issues of administrative reform, because in reality it is about who the administrative reform is about. As far as the administrative reform is concerned, only politicians who so to speak spell out some idea from the hat, or rather do not concern it – and that is my opinion – the people who would actually benefit from it if actual changes were made. In the field of education, for example, she concerns the children, the pupils, the students. It also concerns primarily the field of kindergarten, to which the working group, the expert group, has clearly stressed that the three-part competence leads to a confusion in the laws, but also to a disparity between the children in Austria. It is still dependent on the postal code whether children in that country have equal opportunities for education or not. There is no one federal state, neither can Vienna, where the following question will be raised next Sunday: Do you want this campaign sugar Free Kindergarten, which for many families was not a Zuckerl, but a bitter pill – because they did not get places because they still have to pay contributions because children continue to be promoted in groups with 25 children supposedly individually, because they continue to work on the edge of the burnout because they work under working conditions that are impossible – or do you finally take the educational reform seriously? Years ago, my predecessors called for the introduction of a federal framework law on childcare, for a uniformization, for the creation of quality standards applicable to all children. Children's care facilities are to be truly educational institutions, which deserve this name as well. Once again, the parliamentary groups of the government parties have resorted to the usual means of postponement. Today, we shall make a request again, which includes this. But later on. Child care is not only about education, but also about child care is an essential contribution to the fight against poverty. When we talk about poverty, I have to express once again my absolute amazement at what happened to the family report. You may have already taken it from the media. We have had the family report here for discussion last time, and I have already noted at that time that the issue of poverty – including at least 100 000 children in Austria – is affected by at least one million people in Austria – that this chapter is missing in the family report. Today, we know why it has failed – because family secretary Marek, who, since being a top candidate in Vienna, has laid down her work as a family state secretary, has done one at least at that time, so at least once she has been active, has prevented this chapter from happening in the family report. [[Abg. Amon: Well, that's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Amon: This should only distract from the internal problems of the Greens!]] It has 95 pages, which are clear that this federal government is inactive in the fight against poverty in the European Year, that none of the measures the Federal Government has taken so far. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true at all! They're all just all claims!]] Clearly, it is unpleasant for a top-level candidate of the ÖVP to state the facts that there is poverty and that it is in her responsibility to do something about it as well, by expanding childcare by forcing a minimum security that also deserves that name by initiating discussions on hospital fees for children and the like. Finally, I would like to present our resolution on administrative reform – childcare – family report: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7208	The request which has just been submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7293	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7314	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! If we are talking about administrative reform and savings, we must necessarily also talk about the federal army. Since the colleague of the ÖVP, who praised the German army so much, regretted the step back from eight to six months, I must say that it must not be forgotten that it was your Federal Minister Platter, who reduced the military service from eight months to six and thus broken the military. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I find it amusing that just now, of course, just before the election, SPÖ has addressed the presence service. We from the BZÖ have been discussing this for a long time, because we think it is simply no longer up-to-date that 26 000 young people have been in the service every year. I am, of course, a member of the Austrian Federal Army. But what I don't want is that every year, 26 000 recruits in Austria only use their time. I think we need an attractive professional. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A professional army means well - trained soldiers, about 15,000 who are ready to work at all times, who are happy to have the service at home and who can be proud of their profession. At present, 26 000 people are in training for months and are being torn out of the work process. The times are over when after six months, if you work in a large group, you simply get your job back. I assume that some of the 26 000 are in leadership positions, and then no one can tell me about you that they can all return to their job after that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since from above I hear the call “Youths”: What must not be forgotten is that these 26 000 young people in the economy lose €200 million a year because they no longer work at their jobs in the economy. They must also try to find a job again after their presence. I also believe that the remuneration of € 289 per month is far too low. What do we do with it? – We are creating the indebtedness of tomorrow, because no one can tell me that someone who has had a job and then at once is with the federal army, even if he gets food, accommodation et cetera, comes out with 289 €. On the contrary! After the payment of the present service, all are indebted and have to repay the money for years. It's certainly not targeting! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Were you even with the Federal Heir?]] That's why the demand is: An efficient professional army, 15,000 people, 15,000 women and men who are ready to vote in this profession, can be proud of Austria. What I would like to have written down is that they are also ready for disaster protection at any time. It must not be that, if we have a professional army, everything will be turned on the fire brigades, which, anyway, do a lot of volunteering. [[BZÖ and Abg. Wheeler.]] Of course, I also wish to upgrade the fire brigades, because there is so much capital inside, such a potential for savings that we can then upgrade the fire brigades and the profession of the federal army. [[call to the FPÖ.]] - Please, I don't understand! - Okay, you can't know that, because you weren't with the federal army. I was there, and that's why I know what's really happening there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to see a profession created to which people can again be proud that they have a profession because they are not smiled that they are doing something for our country in difficult times, in times of crisis, in the event of environmental disasters, that they are then immediately operational. Today, it is also the case that no ground defense officer is allowed to take a motor saw in his hand. They are almost lakais of their superiors, almost their suitcases. It's a shame around the time! Six months! This will certainly allow you to start something else, something more efficient for Austria, for Vienna and for the Austrian Federal Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7393	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7414	Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit difficult to discuss with Mr Strache about his urgent needs if he is not even worthy of being present. Not that he would be particularly missing from me, but apparently he is exhausted, and so urgently, his urgent concern cannot have been to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's the consumption!]] I cannot quite understand the desire with which ÖVP always wants to see Vienna, this flourishing federal capital, economically ill, Vienna, where the mayor and the finance councillor together with the Economic Chamber and the Industrial Association make a very good and successful economic policy. Vienna remains Austria's economic engine. In September of this year, 1 800 jobs are more marked than in the same period a year ago. With a package of € 700 million, Vienna has chained an economic and labour market package that has been very successful. The European Cities Monitor, for which managers of the 500 largest companies are surveyed, has chosen Vienna as one of 36 major cities in 2010. This is a great economic success and a great award. Vienna remains the number one in the case of new business start-ups and in the case of resettlements. About 8,000 new companies have relocated in Vienna in one year. This is also a great economic success. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the subject of compulsory military service: I very much welcome the initiative of the mayor of Vienna for a public survey on military service. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you vote against this if you are so?]] Yes, this is an important topic in the life planning of young people, that is not a question. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then you will vote for it!]] It is also not by chance that the mayor of Vienna proposes a popular survey on a subject that is so important to young people. At the beginning of the year, the mayor of Vienna has conducted a popular survey and then gradually implemented the will of the population of Vienna, for example by means of the 24-hour metro. So this is a very important advance in the sense of young people in our country. The mayor of Vienna himself said today in the "Mitagsjournal" that such a public survey should of course be well prepared and discussed. [[Abg. Scheibner: After that, prepare once!]] The Federal Chancellor has supported this process, including our clubman. So you see: We are very serious about this project to carry out a public survey on this. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, you will agree!]] Since, as the colleague rightly said earlier, the German army is an important institution in our country, experts must first prepare the foundations, and then we will agree to an appropriate popular survey, bring them themselves in, but today, Mr Pilz, you do not yet agree with your request. Mrs Musiol calls for a uniform federal system in kindergartens. You will understand, Mrs Colleague, that as a Viennan, I am not particularly excited: If you look at the level of childcare in Vienna, where we have by far the best offer, the greatest density, the best opening hours, then we do not want to go back to a different level. [[Abg. May. Musiol: You are in the Federal Government! Then stand up against the ÖVP!]] If other federal states want to join this level, want to pick up here, then we support it very much and we are delighted. Fortunately, there is also the start-up financing of the federal government, which at that time was abolished by the Freedom Party together with the ÖVP. Now it is possible to expand again in the area of kindergartens. In Vienna this is very committed to action. Finally, I would like to very much welcome Mr Bundeskanzler's statement that an unplanned tax increase will be targeted at education and universities in the next few years. This is a very right decision for the future, Mr. Federal Chancellor! These are important investments in the future of the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7547	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7568	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dialing times are times of general irration. That's a quote. What do you think of who? – It's from Mayor Häupl, and he's right when he says that. Today's special meeting is marked by this irration. I conclude by making the various speeches happen once again. This is really embarrassing again and again when you hear certain statements here. I do not want to leave this in the room, for example, what Mr Lapp said when summarizing the debt of the federal states. As I ask you to distinguish, too, and all those dealing with budgets know that there is a difference between debt and investment. If the Federal State of Lower Austria has taken over 27 hospitals in national responsibility and budgeting, and that is actually primarily from red cities such as Korneuburg, Wiener Neustadt, Stockerau – I know what I am talking about, and I do not want to do so at all – if Lower Austria today has with MedAustron a pan-European demonstration project of scientific research that will take place here in Lower Austria, then I must say that is an investment in health, in science and research, in the future. If Mr Van der Bellen and also Mr Pilz have said, ladies and gentlemen – and I repeat this, because you really have to hear it – that it is actually a pointless time for the soldiers to serve the federal army, a pointless time for the recruits, then I wonder if it is pointless to be trained to be really effective in the event of a crisis, in the case of man protection, when it comes to the protection of the comrade and also about the population. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're not!]] Is that pointless? - I'm questioning that. And I also wonder what soldiers of the Austrian federal army really feel today, when they have heard that. Is that the confidence they have developed in recent years and decades? – No, they deserve something else, namely our respect and our respect! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If I may comment briefly on Mr Stadler's comments: He's talking about local politics and the mayors, because he knows what's more passionate about it. – It has a reason why he has never been elected to such a function: because one does not want it, because one does not want a nester, because one wants someone who knows himself in the community, who knows where it impresses the citizens. Mr Stadler – or Mr Stadler, no honourable Member! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Just leave that away! Don't hypocrite!]] I would like to say that we, the mayors, are not local skiers. We are the ones who look on the spot that it works in the administration, in dealing with the citizens. We bear responsibility, and you should know this and not be able to make yourself here and toss the mayors in Austria. Let us guard against that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A sentence on administrative reform, very briefly [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs. Mayor! Was that it? - Then I'll go now!]] Today’s special session is under the motto “reform instead of excavating”. I was very surprised that this was the very initiation of the liberals, for reforming is, for example, in the tribal state of Carinthia, where the liberals have the saying and the responsibility to feel nothing or very little. For example, when I think about the Hypo Alpe-Adria connection, you've always been there somewhere. And that is why I do not actually understand that the liberals in particular are taking up this issue. I can only say one thing: We, the People's Party, say: Stabilising the Republic, stabilizing finance and the economy by reforming, that is our way!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7646	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobmann Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7668	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. The colleagues in front of me have sworn that it is about the future, about the lifetime of young people. Do you know when the first time a SPÖ German chancellor promised the abolition of the military obligation as an election sugar in an election campaign? – Some will remember: That was 1998/1999 and that was the German Chancellor's climate at the time. In the meantime, this promise of social democracy is ten years old, and I believe that if you take seriously the words of a German chancellor, including yours, then you should take yourself seriously and today also stand in a vote on these decisions and do not go back to saying that you do not mean something as you say. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] If you really think it is serious about the fate of young people, young men, then the competent Federal Minister could be without any problem without a constitutional majority in this House from 1. January next year, starting in 2011, simply suspend the general military obligation once, so that not additional hours, weeks, months of life are wasted by young people. This is what we urgently need in training and in the economy. You could do this without your coalition partner, and you could thus take the evidence that the fate of people is really important to you and that you are not just distributing big headlines three days before a choice in their daily paper, in “ÖsterREICH”, simply as an election sugar. So make serious policies and stand on what you say! I would also like you to stand by what you say about education, tax reform and budget. You said last week – also in this newspaper, in “Austria”: “I am in favour of using the unplanned tax increase in the new budget for education and colleges.” As far as this increase in taxes of €1.5 billion, which we fortunately now have as a margin, is concerned, we can now decide what we are doing with it. We have already requested this at the last National Council meeting and we are doing it stubbornly today, in your sense, Mr. Faymann. Stand up to what you explain to the public, and make the way today to secure the Federal Financial Framework Act, and actually support the young people! It burns at the university, it burns at the schools and it burns also in childcare. It is necessary to simply take more money into your hands here and make up the law again. How much is the word of a Federal Chancellor worth? You can prove this today without hiding behind the coalition partner et cetera. Please also take the citizen and the citizen in this form so seriously that you can also take the things you constantly promise outwards once in the National Council Put the vote to the vote and do it positively! Otherwise, we are waiting another ten years for a problem to be solved in the fields of education, universities, school and kindergarten. I don't want to wait that long. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Everyone talked about Vienna today. I think we would have invited 25 people on the tramway and asked them to say something about the tax reform, the administrative reform, the budget, that they probably had more targeted contributions than they had today in this Vienna election show. I am sorry, I think, that is also a certain ignorance to the population that we are not seriously dealing with the issues we have to deal with. That's actually the budget now. How do we invest? Where do we save? What do we reasonably do, what do we not do? – Answers to all these questions have remained to you today, to pretty much everyone. This is very unfortunate, because some people have perhaps watched who have expected at least a serious discussion of their questions. By the way, I'm a Viennese citizen. I also experience a great deal about the actual impact of your policy in Vienna, and I do not want education to depend on the quality of life on the postal code. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I want children, young people and young people across Austria to have the highest and best standards. We don't have that right now. This is my contribution to the Vienna election campaign. I want the highest standards for all children in Austria and not only in Lower Austria, Vienna and Styria. That's really absurd!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7752	Your final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7767	I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's in your mind, Mr. Federal Chancellor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7813	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7942	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e7963	Mr President. Dear colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the plenary! I would like to take up a few points that have been raised today in the debate, and I would like to make the first speech by Mr Strache on the tax of the rich. Only to see how his opinion is consistent: In 2005 he said in an ORF press hour – I quote –: I think it is very reasonable, and we also need to discuss a rich tax. In 2008 he spoke against the capital increase tax, saying: Absolutely nonsense, because it hits the middle class. [[Abg. Vilimsky: That's something else!]] In 2009 he supports the Reichentaxe again. In August 2010 we are again against the Reichentaxe. Today – hear, hear – we are back for the Reich tax. So that's kind of weird. [[Abg. Strache:... Are you hard to understand complex contexts?- Oh, my God!]] So, we come to the administration in Vienna for a short while. I have said last time that only 15 percent of the staff are in the administration. The rest are health care service providers, fire brigade, rescue, kindergartens, waste disposal and canal and water sectors. I can only say now, Mrs Tamandel, Vienna has implemented the 2005 pension reform. That's done. And the private hospitals you mentioned are subsidized by the city of Vienna with €67.5 million. [[Abg. New builder:... until 2042!]] If I continue now, Mr Cap has said that he does not think anything about the garbage. I already think of something: Get rid of yourself! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The revenue from the fees will be used to launch infrastructure projects that envy us all of Europe. If we didn't have this money, we couldn't keep our high quality in Vienna. But one thing is still an exciting aspect for me. They always represent themselves, Mr. Strache, as a hero of the little people. Now let's assume that you were not involved in the black and blue government, and I'm just looking at the year 2008/2009: What did you do for the little people? [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. New builder.]] You have rejected the early planned pension increase. You rejected the free kindergartens. You have rejected the two economic recovery packages for Vienna with your party. You have rejected the new middle school and you have also rejected the new shuttle fee. They're making het campaigns. They divide people apart. I will now come to the subject of living, Mr Stefan. Each tenth municipal apartment is awarded to a non-national citizen. The basis for this is an EU directive. You're swindling people in your paper? Apartments for Viennans only? But that may not interest you if you have a luxury apartment in view of what you pay 4,000 € rent for. These many awards that Vienna has received, this lovely and living city, prove this secure city that Vienna is on the right track under the leadership of Mayor Michael Häupl.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8054	Mrs. Colleague, out of respect for human life, it should not be recommended to anyone to dispose of themselves. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Bravo, human-friendly SPÖ!]] Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8092	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Reforming instead of excavating, this is only possible together. That is what the Court of Auditors has found. All efforts to prevent the downfall, to enable reform are only possible in a joint interaction of federal, country and community. Mr. Cap, colleague Kuntzl and colleague Lueger have today provided examples of why the 10. This year, it is important for this Parliament. [[Abg. Neubauer: Because you may marry!]] We can only end this blockade policy, which is currently in place in Vienna, if we are to work together. We need clear responsibilities in education. For example, if the head of state and mayor were diverting yesterday from the country and from the municipality with a federal military debate, then because he simply does not want to address the ideas of improvement that we are introducing in the field of education. [[Abg. New builder: This is a shame!]] He can already, together with the SPÖ, implement a ten-point programme that would bring the laws that we decide here more quickly to the citizens in the implementation in Vienna. The mandatory pre-school, as the first measure, with a mandatory preparatory class is already possible in these laws. We expect that every child who starts school will also have the appropriate German skills in order to be able to follow the regular education. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To date, they have not sufficiently implemented this measure and have not provided sufficient teachers. I come to the expansion of school autonomy: Here, too, the country can make compulsory schools equal to federal schools. To date you have a shopping cart in Vienna. That is, ladies and gentlemen, if the school needs a football or volleyball, then she doesn't get a football and no volleyball, but instead she gets a kitchen box via the shopping cart, although she can't even need the kitchen box. This is the school autonomy according to the understanding of the municipality of Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But let us now also come to the planning industry in the area of afternoon care: In 2006, we decided here in the house that every parent should be asked once a year if an afternoon care is needed or not. What does the city of Vienna do? The parents are not questioned. Instead, my friends who do not have children are asked in Vienna – and this is €6 million – whether they would like such an afternoon care or not. That's not covered by law, that's not all right! Therefore: ==References== The laws must be complied with in Vienna on October 1, including the question of the parents. If you need an afternoon care, you have to find and get an afternoon care under the applicable law. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For the protocol: No applause from the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But let's also come down in the area of school construction: Through the financial compensation, every student, every student, gets the opportunity to sit in a school building. In Vienna, however, we do not receive a school building, but a school container: In summer heat, in winter freezing, this is the education concept of the Wiener SPÖ. ==References== October we do not need containers, but modern school buildings where children can learn, play and spend their leisure time together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a word on music schools: Let's raise the music schools to the state of Lower Austria! Currently we have 30 locations in Vienna and 420 in Lower Austria! ==References== October we need more music schools and harmonisation of civil servants' pensions in the city of Vienna. Let us promote our children in the music school instead of officials with their sleeves!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8179	Mr Dr. Strutz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8203	Mr President. High Parliament! After Michael Jackson and several election calls for the Vienna Landtagswahl, I would like to focus briefly on a topic of administrative reform, how it is planned and how it should not take place from the point of view of Carinthia. In the field of justice, an administrative reform is hidden under the cover of criminal centres of competence or a criminal competence package. Within the framework of a draft law and a planned new law, only more than four sites in Austria will be responsible for economic crime with a total cost of more than €5 million and will be negotiated there. These are the locations Vienna, Linz, Graz and Innsbruck. Graz is an extraordinary problem for the Federal Republic of Carinthia, because, in the context of the creation of these centres of competence, there are, of course, massive staff cuts and a massive thinning of the judicial staff. The judges and prosecutors see themselves as second-class in the current investigations in the proceedings – whether it is Hypo Alpe-Adria, whether it is AvW, whether it is different procedures – as a second-class court. With the creation of these centres of competence, all more complex, high-quality procedures are expected to be negotiated in Graz in the future. What does that mean? In addition to planning site savings and a two-class justice, the procedures for each individual will naturally become more expensive, because the people concerned – witnesses, the actual citizen who wants to come to his right – will have to drive the 150 kilometers to Graz in the future. This leads to a cost replacement, to the cost of the procedures and makes no sense in total. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister of Justice "to ensure that, in the course of the creation of the business centres, not the planning centres of Klagenfurt are transferred to Graz, all proceedings are negotiated at the court site of Klagenfurt, as before, and judicial tourism – with increased financial effort – is "prevented after Graz". [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I can also answer the call: Who Are “We ”? – This is what we, the Carinthian Members who do not want it, and the liberals who support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8252	Mr Dr. Strutz, the motion for a resolution has not yet been received from the Members of Parliament's Directorate. We'll need that for the Croquis. Mr Linder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8276	Mr President. Dear lady, dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Taxation of the 13th and 14ths. ==References====External links== Children's aid, no mass taxation, bank charges, which are reliable: Are these all speculations or is the truth? We all don't know. We will not know until the budget is available. But we still don't have a budget. Mr Bundeskanzler, that you do not ensure that the budget is available, there are two reasons for this: either these assumptions are true, or you are too weak as head of government to give the Minister of Finance the mandate to present the budget. We will only get to you if the budget is on the table. And I believe that much of what is feared is true. Mr Bundeskanzler, after Klubobmann Strache's request was made, you said today that we do not need to worry about the SPÖ. That's right, so we don't need to worry about them. However, we are very concerned when we hear that social benefits such as the 13. We must give the company RAUCH, Mr Mateschitz, the Red Bull Group, a million-dollar agricultural support, because it provides services. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's where I ask you: Are the many mothers who raise children not doing anything?- Oh, my God! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Quiet! There's nothing left to hear!]] We are not worried about the SPÖ, we are concerned about the social structure here in Austria and above all about the fact that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are too weak to make social compensation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have heard a lot about reforms today. Again and again, the first reflective reaction was: Reforms, especially with the municipalities, punishing communities, shortening communities, bringing the communities together. – Ladies and gentlemen, no unity is as efficient as the communities! The smaller the community, the more efficient it is, the better it works and the better it is controlled! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We small communities are manageable. I think the opposite is the big city of Vienna. As we have heard today, here stands from the cradle to the Bahre SPÖ. This would never be possible in a small community because we are controlled by the citizen and because we look into the eyes of the citizen every day! Dear Ewald Stadler, yes, we are “Grüßauguste” because I am just happy to go to my citizen, to give him my hand, to look him in the eye, to criticize him if something does not fit, and to help him too. Of course, if you've never done that, if you don't want this citizens' proximity, I like to think you're trying to make fun of the mayors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say: Reforms yes – but not reflexively the small communities will be abolished!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8343	Mr. Dr. Strutz has informed us that he did not make his own request but referred to another independent person. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There the Martin was again against the brow, and Scheuch then decided!]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Debates of the European Parliament I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Solidarity rather than class struggle'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz, colleagues, on the conduct of a People's Survey on the abolition of general military service. If you support this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What about you?]] [[Abg. Let's read the application!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Musiol, colleagues on administrative reform – childcare – family report. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues, on strengthening rather than reducing education in the Federal Financial Framework Act. If you join this request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00079_d7e8448	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 1284/A(E) to 1293/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 6514/J to 6536/J were also raised. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs shall continue its interrupted deliberations immediately following this meeting in local VI. The main committee shall hold its plenary deliberations immediately after this meeting in local IV, the Committee on Agriculture in local VIII 30 minutes after the end of this meeting, i.e. at 5 p.m. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 20. October, 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
