ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6766	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 77. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:06:30]] Meeting of the 2010/2011 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6791	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 27. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 7th. September 2010 at the ordinary meeting 2010/2011 of XXIV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 75. Meeting and the Official Protocol of 76. Meeting of 25 March 1990 On August 1, 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are mentioned as Königsberger-Ludwig, Riepl and Dr. Schüssel. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6820	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Federal Minister of Justice Mag. Claudia Bandion-Ortner is represented by the Federal Minister for Science and Research Dr. Beatrix Karl. [[09:07:50]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6871	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Christian Faul has waived his mandate and, in his place, Mr Magistrate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, you! Big loss!]] Michael Schickhofer was appointed to the National Council. Since the electorate is already present and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately be his... [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if fishing is already so turbulent, how will we be able to hold the sitting today? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is up to you, Madam President.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: If the government submits a budget...!]] Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now asking Mrs Franz to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6944	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6965	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6986	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. I announce that the ORF is transferring live the current hour and the current European hour of today's session. [[09:09:19]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7011	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “The red and black bacon has to be gone!” – administrative reform instead of the culprit and the asocial savings package. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7038	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “The red and black bacon must be gone!” is our theme of the current hour today, because it is precisely after what has been announced by the government in the last few weeks, namely, that it must be very malicious and conscious to break the Constitution, that it is not ready to finally save expenditure in this country, but to continue to shake the pressure pit and turn on the burden screw for the citizens. “The red and black bacon must be gone!” is quite a sentence that people in this country can understand and also sign, for it is precisely this bacon, Mr. Federal Chancellor, who will for a short or long time ensure that our country will suffer a heart attack. If you judge the state's debt development by assessing your record expenditure, you must be afraid if you do not act soon that we will suffer an economic heart attack. And today, in principle, we are facing a very simple decision, namely: Are those in Austria still to be left to die, who are already subject to this maximum tax as a service provider, namely the middle class? Do you want to continue to burden the middle class? Or do you go here and try to make this unfair tax system fairer, and are you trying to prevent new mass taxes and save expenditure, say, when it comes to government and administrative reform? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Until now, all the signs and all the indices that you have lived in recent weeks, with the very targeted breach of the Constitution, do not go to the budget until 22. October to present in that direction that you apparently only intend to turn on the control and load screw. That should be your government, where you also have the responsibility, Mr Faymann, because until now you have only talked about the hot bridle and given nothing concrete for the best. We mean, the red and black proporz speck has to go. He does not use anyone in this country – except for the patrons of the two party headquarters, which ultimately assumes that the country is in its possession. And the inconsistency of your actions, Mr Bundeskanzler, but also of Mr. Vice-Chanceller Josef Pröll, is reflected in the state and administrative reform. I have personally experienced a few Austrian conversations, for which one can only find out, that was a bad joke. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There we have been put together several times under your leadership, Mr Federal Chancellor, and there was the impression that as you approach things and problems in this country, you could not even reorganize any bowling club that is in trouble. That was the impression of these Austrian conversations. You've been talking about small prints all the time. There has been no concrete decision, no concrete point that would have been defined there, although we have been talking about state and administrative reform for some time, although a Constitutional Convention has also reached agreement on the necessary steps to be taken. But nothing happens! Nothing you are willing or able to put on the track, although it would be necessary. And we are now facing the question: Is it at last possible to bring Austria, our country to the heights of time, by not continuing the old bureaucratic, long-arrived wood road and continuing along, but finally responding to the circumstances we find today? Is the country getting the necessary modernisation boost? Are you ready to finally take up these necessary areas as well? Or do you continue the old mechanisms, namely to continue to burden only the performance providers in our society? We say there must be no additional burden. There must be no new taxes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We finally have to save on expenditure. Today we have the highest expenditure in the Second Republic, we have the highest public debt, which has also been incurred by this red and black federal government. And you are obviously not willing to go new ways. So I'm just tired, not just me, many Austrians, that you're constantly dealing with the small print, dealing with the footnotes for administrative reform, losing yourself in it, instead of finally making nails with heads. The Court of Auditors has defined in a wonderful, beautiful book how many very concrete savings are available in the field of state and administrative reform, but also in the field of health optimization, where 315 concrete proposals have been made, which have long been known. [[The speaker holds up a blue book entitled “Positions”.]] And it has long been up to you to implement it. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors sees the greatest need for reform in the field of health care, on the other hand in the care sector, in the education sector, in the promotion sector, in the sustainable financing of infrastructure projects, in improving the promotion of housing, in better coordination in the areas of environmental protection and in the implementation of reform measures in public undertakings, where there are still special privileges today, such as the ÖBB or the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria alone has 27 percent higher expenditure than Germany and 11 percent higher expenditure than Denmark. And here alone there would be an efficiency reserve of up to €2.5 billion, which the Court of Auditors has also calculated. In the health reform, the Court sees a rework potential. In contrast to State Secretary Arbitrators, we deliberately say no to hospitalizations, as Mr Schieder has called for in Styria, but yes to optimization, yes to priority hospitals, yes to better efficiency development in the health field, where redeployment and priority commitments can save up to €2.9 billion, also through necessary optimization measures. The Court of Auditors also calls for sustainable cost-effective structural measures for social insurance. Other areas, such as the school sector, of course belong to reformed areas. According to the Court of Auditors, the transfer of administrative tasks and non-teacher-specific activities from teachers to administrative and professional staff could allow an annual saving potential of €6.9 million. This may not sound much at first glance, but it is still – converted into Schilling – 100 million schilling, which can be saved very quickly. There is also an annual savings potential of €14.5 million in the school organisation. So in all these areas, there is a need for action up to the harmonisation of the ÖBB, but also of the pension system. Also in the ORF, it is necessary to set up; the question arises whether nine national studios are necessary and at all efficient. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this goes down to another great potential for savings, namely the promotion and subsidies sector in Austria, which we repeatedly point to. We are European champions in the area of subsidies. There are, please, 15.6 billion € in subsidies distributed annually, 5.6 percent of GDP. The EU average is 2.6% and in Germany only 2.4%. But what are you doing, Federal Chancellor? – You obviously dream of new mass taxes, where it turns out pretty slowly that you apparently intend to increase VAT, where abstract and absurd ideas emerge that you want to increase the mineral oil tax further. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Who's meeting that? – Always the little man, always the weak in society and, of course, the small and medium-sized enterprises that recharge this to the citizens, speak to the consumers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Tax increases...!]] That is exactly the wrong approach. And precisely that is why you are trying to delay the disclosure of your tax increase plans until after the Styrian election and until after the Vienna election. There's going to be a talk around the hot bitch, because You don't want to tell the truth to the citizens. We therefore also want to build pressure here, because only if you experience from SPÖ and ÖVP that you are put under suffering pressure will a thought process begin with you. And this suffering pressure is necessary. You need more electoral settlements in Styria and in Vienna to increase this pressure of suffering so that you can finally think and take the people seriously again and start saving at the right places in this Republic, namely in expenditure and not in the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7141	Mr Bundeskanzler spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7162	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would also like to make it clear, since we are talking about administrative reform, that the thousands of employees in the public service – whether in the countries and communities, in the hospitals, such as nurses, nurses, or at the federal level, such as police officers, teachers – are doing great things in this country. [[I should like to congratulate SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Despite the high quality in Austria that characterizes us to be envied in almost all areas – for example, I draw attention to our health system as an example, which always serves as a comparison and is used by other countries when it comes to how a just, powerful health system could develop – one must not close one's eyes to the fact that even in highly highly trained, well-functioned, efficient, employees can create double-tracks, bureaucracy can arise, which can be checked regularly. The sensibleness of the processes must be regularly tested. As in small, medium-sized and large enterprises, there is therefore a constant reform in this area. A reform calls for employment with the business sectors, which the Court of Auditors has also done, to determine the quality, performance, and how to achieve this performance as efficiently, sparingly as possible, with the lowest possible cost. In addition, for example, in the health sector, science and the possibilities available to the health system increase performance and, of course, increase costs in all areas. But it is also a merit of science, research, our health system that it is not only a few that it is reserved to be treated in particularly expensive clinics, but that in our health system every citizen and every citizen who is in line with the last state of scientific possibilities is being cared for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, part of the administrative reform is, for example, in the recovery of the cost-damage path, which was set at €1.7 billion by 2013. This alone proves that in this area – and I would like to mention it in particular – in close and good cooperation the performance agreements, whether with the doctors, whether with the pharmaceutical industry, were reviewed and costs and cost increases could be reduced. The requirement for this year was a cost reduction of €200 million. One has, however, achieved a cost reduction of €300 million in the next few days, which the reports will show. Let us therefore also say a thank you to those who turn every euro twice a day, work sparingly, and carry out administrative reform in practice! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This also applies to many other proposals, for example in the field of eGovernment, which saves citizens 2 million hours of time or, otherwise, formulates complex issues that have arisen over many years, because they have repeatedly added some new performance, which has already led to a thickening, can be reviewed in a recent way, through these systems and e-Government, without the citizens having to go to three places. They save time and ultimately money, but also inconveniences. The same applies to companies that experienced a discharge of €500 million in 2010 in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs – through close cooperation with many other bodies – through more than 180 measures that have led to debureaucratisation in the case of tax returns, applications, environmental charges et cetera. And we're far from over there. We will, together with the national leaders, have to explore these processes in two ways. More than 300 laws are going through: Where can we save ourselves money by simplifying procedures that are not necessary or not so complicated, thus saving ourselves hours of service in public service, in public administration, which we urgently need elsewhere, but of course also the citizens, the companies in our country? The transparency database will provide an insightful picture of the field of funding, the promotion of communities, countries and the federal government, and of dual-trackness, often also due to the intention to promote a particular direction, environmental policy, regional policy, rural areas, innovation areas if different bodies wanted and operated the same. This too is an approach that you know has taken very concrete form. There are still many obstacles in front of us – we do not know whether the countries actually provide the data as we need it; not as we like to give it to us, but as we need it to determine exactly these double tracks – that will be a hard way, but you can rely on it: If we take this path together and with the countries and communities to see that transparency and lights are the first step in the administrative reform, we can eliminate double-tracks in our funding system between the federal, state and local authorities, work more efficiently and make better work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Milkmaid bills of the kind that you can simply delete €3 billion somewhere and the finance minister separates them, the Court of Auditors has not hired. [[Abg. Kickl: The Court of Auditors...!]] It has made it clear that efficiency increases are possible in particular in the health and care sectors. [[Abg. Kickl: He's already frustrated when he's dealing with you!]] So again on Sunday; in case you have listened to the President of the Court of Auditors or have read, understand and correctly reflect the reports; three conditions, Mr Kickl, which are not given to everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The President of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors are therefore very often talking about the fact that in an area, for example in the field of ambulance, very high costs arise, but that by established doctors or joint doctors – you know that we have put this model on track and that it should actually lead to reliefs – cost shifts from very expensive areas to other areas are possible. This will save money on the one hand, but – the Court of Auditors says so seriously – more money is needed in other areas. That is why he calls it “increasing efficiency. ” He did not draw up milkmaid bills and did not say that it could be passed on to taxpayers 1 : 1, but he said in which areas savings are possible, but in order to meet other urgent needs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] And in the health field, this is particularly clear because the stationary care, the mobile care in our country is particularly strained by the communities and more expenses are required for the care. The milkmaid bill, to say what one saves for ambulances or hospital beds, can be returned, that saves itself so to speak of the Finance Ministers, that is wrong because the need in the care sector – especially in this area! – is much higher than the offer. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] The regulations we have today can only be improved if we also improve mobile, stationary care and because the communities do not leave alone, but try to reach a high quality in the care standard together with them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have also mentioned other points already agreed, such as the Federal Office for Asylum and Migration, which summarizes over 110 existing authorities; also a number of individual projects, each of which is valuable because one is active in the spirit of administrative reform. The discussion with countries on competences, the debate on how fair tax systems are to be designed, how our ministries can present savings measures, we will still have enough to deal with and then decide on the necessary clarity and clarity at the 2011 budget – and I am convinced that the follow-up budgets will also be followed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7285	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Lueger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7330	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Values Watchers on the screens! Mr Strache, on your statement: “The red and black bacon has to be gone!” – administrative reform instead of loading room and asocial savings package!, the following: I was disappointed with your speech, Mr Strache, because there was nothing in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I always find it exciting that the administrative reform is, so to speak, taken as a panacea to want to make savings in billions – and that immediately there are: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Otherwise you are always so excited!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: So mass taxes!]] Staff costs, staff costs and pension costs, which are far too high. It is also very, very quickly spoken of by a bloated and far too large administration. I am aware that the administrative reform is one of the core projects that is now being taken up by the Federal Government, and the individual countries are also contributing to this. And what does the individual countries contribute to this? – I can tell you this from the example of the last five years of Vienna. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In Vienna, the level of staffing of the administration has been clearly reduced in the last five years. The staffing level has declined and thus also the staffing effort. [[Abg. Neubauer: With how many years do the officials retire?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This figure has been reduced to 67 437 staff, Mr. Cot. And what does that mean? – Of those staff who work in the administration, only 15 percent do a classic administrative service, so to speak; the rest are service providers! And with these 85 percent, the service providers who provide 365 days a year around the clock, so that we can have a high quality of services, I want to know where you want to save from FPÖ there. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why do they go to pension with 54 on average?]] As health and care issues have also been addressed: Due to their origin, due to their background, the employees of the Wiener Krankenanstaltverband have over 50 countries, so to speak, and thus have the opportunity to care for the people in such a way that this is just fine, whether it is in the operating room, in the care or in the ambulances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Further information on Vienna: It is not natural that the high spring water in Vienna comes directly from the water pipeline! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It is not natural that the channel system works the way it works in Vienna, and it is not always so natural as in Vienna that the power supply always works. [[Abg. Strache: Channel and wastewater charges are far overcrowded for the population of Vienna! There's the trigger! At the...!]] The trash transports thousands of tons of waste away in Vienna! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Since you are excited now, Mr Strache, I ask you: Do you want to take away this quality that exists in Vienna from the citizens of this city? Is that your goal, Mr. Strache? Don't you finally confess color! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The municipal taxes in Vienna, here you are the loading docks! Electricity...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Let's get to the topic of payrolls. There is always the number 10 billion from you from the FPÖ, which you can save. – Do you even know what that would mean? – The Federation would have to lock for a year, so to speak, in order to save it! And what would that mean for Vienna, since you always put it one by one on Vienna? – In Vienna we would have to include 180 000 staff in this case! – So far to your statements, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: A nonsense! It's an absolute nonsense!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In addition, the claim that the amount of pension is too high is too high. – What does it really look like? [[Abg. Neubauer: Do you know where the town hall is in Vienna?]] – First of all, the pension disadvantages of public servants compared to ASVG insured persons: Public servants pay higher pension contributions during their active time, they pay pension contributions during their retirement period, and they have a higher retirement age. [[Abg. Strache: The head would have to cancel, that would be a good saving potential!]] And: Vienna does not know the hackler scheme in the form of his staff – and the 2005 pension reform begins to understand, with deposits of up to 3.36 percent. It is not about keeping the administration as it is, because administrative reform is a process – and that is not only to be used as a keyword, because: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] The efficiency should be increased, double-tracking should be abolished and synergies achieved. The fact that Vienna is on the right track is shown by the fact that Vienna has received the award twice as the most living city through the Mercer study. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And this is clearly proof that Dr. Michael Häupl is on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7566	Mr Bartenstein came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7587	Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the election speech of my previous speaker on Vienna: It is true that Vienna may be more viable in many areas, but it would still be nice if Vienna did not appear out of the process of administrative reform. And I can therefore ask you, Mrs Colleague, why Vienna still has a special pension right for its officials. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Why, then, is there no harmonisation with what is usual in Austria, for example, with what has already been implemented in my home country, namely Styria, Schützhofer in 2003, under the leadership of Waltraud Klasnic?- Oh, my God! Wouldn't it be time Vienna also abolished this special pension right, dear Mrs. Colleague? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finance Minister Josef Pröll today told the “Kurier” about the consolidation of the State budget, which is the priorities: Number one is growth, the second is saving – and if it is still absolutely necessary, you can think about tax increases. That's a good news, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: Economic growth is back, much higher than we expected and hoped for. The Germans are talking about growth – according to OECD numbers – of 3.4 percent in 2010. In Austria, the growth figures are clearly revised upwards, and this, of course, presents us with a new situation that I will be able to speak to immediately. Before, however, a bad news: Ireland threatens to become a “second Greece” – and this can present us with new challenges. On the one hand, but the shields are stretched. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's enough for Carinthia too!]] – Immediately, Mr Kogler; You will certainly say something to the Styria. Let me begin by saying something to Ireland: The shields are tense, but what does that tell us? – That the consolidation of the state budget is not a pleasure of any conservative Christian democratic parties in Europe, but an absolute necessity, because if one does not make this consistent, one of the financial markets eventually fails. In the case of Greece, this happened a few months ago – and in the case of Ireland, that is threatening. Therefore: Let us be on the hat and go the savings course, the consolidation course, which is absolutely indispensable! The only news for Austria: We'll be easier to do this. However, we do not know exactly how much easier it is. But I say to you: If growth is 0.5 percent higher than assumed, this means about €500 million more for the federal government. If growth is 1 percent higher than assumed, it will look better on the federal side by about € 1 billion in 2011. In this context, it is very interesting what has been said about agreements so far, how much more revenue the Finance Ministers are supposed to achieve next year. There are others – not us; I am still talking about it – especially on the tax trip. There is €1.1 billion at the federal level – and if you still charge the countries, it is €1.6 to 1.7 billion. So that means that more revenue from the title more growth is a good part, if not all, of the title: Consider where we could get the extra income and take it. I told you that I am not going to talk about those who have been talking about nothing but new taxes in the last few weeks – the saving or consolidation is unfortunately not happening in this eight-point programme of our coalition partner – even briefly. I think this is a very serious mistake, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That's wrong! They are talking about taxes ranging from a bank tax to a asset tax and new group tax measures. On bank charges: We had visits from Germany, and colleagues from the German Bundestag did not believe that Austria was preparing a bank levy of €500 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] Do you know where the Germans are? – At 1 billion €! But the Germans are supposedly not twice, but ten times as big as we are. Well, who's gonna pay the token? – This is, of course, the customer, the bank customer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] And what an asset tax as a substance tax is going on: You know, we've all lived through this before. Check with former Minister of Finance Lacina. He knew exactly why he abolished this property tax 15 years ago: First of all, because it only paid the farms, second because the administration was quite enormous, and third, because even then the middle class was not spared next to the farms. Nobody believes you'll stay at €1 million. The borders will go down. You probably also mean transport values and not unit values, i.e. a tax which should be taxed by the middle class. And if I am already with former SPÖ members: All in all, I thought it was a good idea, Mr State Secretary and Mr Bundeskanzler, to consult their former colleagues. Talk to Mr. State Secretary other than Ruttenstorfer, which he believes you only want to keep manager salaries up to €500 000 per year. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Talk to Siemens Executive Director Ederer and former Secretary of State, what she thinks about group taxation, and perhaps also talk to Mr Finanzminister out of service Androsch again, which he considers to be a total of about her eight-point tax package! Probably the same as me, nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7697	Mr Kickl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7718	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Today, the Federal Chancellor has gained strength for the debate and has been accompanied by the SPÖ Competence Centre for Social Injustice, which is State Secretary Arbitrator – he is the one who wants to lock all hospitals and who has defined the wealth in such a way that he starts immediately after the minimum pensioner – and the second competence center he has brought with him today is colleague Ostermayer, specialist in post chess and party propaganda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier]] [[Call the SPÖ:Is there something wrong with you?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So much on the issue of administrative reform! These are the things that flourish so much in Vienna as nothing else. And it is already in a way treacherous when the SPÖ speakers quote the Mercer study. That's excellent! The Mercer study – which must be explained to television operators – is a survey of international executives. So that's what you're otherwise in every speech, if you're somewhere on the Kirtag or in the party tent or in the section, you're suing as a class enemy: These are the super-richs with income beyond good and evil living outside, in the green, in the guarded garden, with the luxury car and with private drivers, who have accommodated their children somewhere in an area where nothing can be seen from the public hand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the target audience of the survey of the Mercer study, and the SPÖ goes here and quotes these people to prove the quality of life in Vienna. If you would look carefully, you would know that the poorest district, measured by purchasing power, is the Danube city of Vienna. That's the achievement of social democracy – but you've been away from the little people for a long time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a matter of fact, ladies and gentlemen, I note that it is only taking you back and forth from social democracy: On the one hand, you drive around the Mercer study, on the other hand you send delegations to North Korea to a hardcore communicator – obviously to explore the real-life socialism there again. I'm glad he came back – probably not blazed. [[Abg. Strache: The colleague Wittmann was there!]] I assume, once again, that Mr Wittmann has come back ideologically fortified so that he can lead his defence fight again against those who supposedly do not think well with the Austrians. I'll tell you: The only ones who don't mean it well with the population, sit over there, they sit there in the left corner. There is no difference at federal level, and that is exactly the same in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] They are those who have been in the tax field for years and days in the Austrians, and who will not put an end to it, because you are not willing to finally implement an administrative reform for which it would be most appropriate to do so! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about administrative reform, what do we mean by that? I'm just giving you two thoughts now, maybe you can start something – I'm not afraid! However, administrative reform should primarily reduce costs, i.e. costs that do not face performance. We are not talking about the cost of services we need to care for or cover the necessary needs of the population, so to speak – these are undisputed! – but we are talking about the costs that only your officials serve. These must be pressed downwards and ideally reduced. This is an administrative reform once! - That's the first point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, we are talking about administrative reform as well as simplifying the citizen's access to his right and to what is due to him, which is honestly due to him. This is administrative reform: Close-up, service character! – You need to be able to understand this, but if I look at what you are doing, I know you didn't understand it, because even in this area, the effort in your back is going completely. I have brought you an example because in this context it is as illuminating as the SPÖ interprets it. Since the Federal Chancellor in the visible effort to bring the population closer to the achievements of socialist politics, the German Chancellor explains to the people the minimum security. There you can read the following – yes, very interesting – regarding claim: “Ilja T. is Romanian and lived with his family in Bucharest. He applied in Vienna to a patch company, which was successfully granted a work permit for him. Mr. T. moves his family to Austria. After a year, the third child will be born and Mr. T. will no longer be able to receive his family." I just mention that these are the service providers of which our social system, the pension system and so on lives. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: How did you get that?]] So, Mr. T. can't get his family anymore. And that's what it says: ‘Can BMS be obtained? – Yes, Mr T. is a worker” – I add: Later on, unemployed people! – “in Austria. It can, of course, claim the increase by the need-oriented minimum guarantee for itself and his family. [[Abg. After good night! After good night!]] What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – This is an instruction on the use of organised social abuse! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] Now write that in this case it is a Romanian – it could have been a Bulgarian – because you know that the labour market only opens up at the end of 2013, but you could also have written: a pole, a Hungarian, a Czech or a Slovak, because there is one. May of the coming year ends with the protection provisions – and then all this threatens us! Then the Iljas – from Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] I don't know if you've missed this. 400,000 unemployed Hungary, 300,000 unemployed Slovaks and 500,000 in the Czech Republic. You're wondering if you're left by all the good spirits, ladies and gentlemen! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I come to the last sentence: Administrative reform means that you have to cut yourself into your own meat. – You are not ready, so I assume that the voters will order you to have this diet.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7902	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7923	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Back to the issue of administrative reform and probably also to this point there is a meaningful saving. The issue is well chosen, because it is this federal government – I am sorry, Federal Chancellor – which refuses to present a budget in accordance with the Constitution by the hour. Now you would have the opportunity to talk more about the revenue and expenditure plans; There have been indications. I only notice at this point – we will deal with it again today –: At the head of the Federal Government, you are simply organizing a breach of constitution, because you are the electorate in front of the Styrian and Styrian electorate. Wiener Landtagswahlen do not want to say where to invest now, because it is useful and useful there, and where to save. In any other reasonable republic in Europe, you would have to withdraw for a long time, but with us you can allow it. That is why I ask you and the other speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP to finally talk about where to save behind and where to invest – that is the task! There has been a lot of reasonable efforts. I would just like to turn to the savings side today, because there is really a lot inside – the Court of Auditors has already been mentioned. We in Parliament, especially in the Committee, are very long and intensive about this. In the long term, and on average, this is really about billions; in the short term – of course, it's not that fast – it's about a few hundred million. But now we have to set the course so that we can achieve these potentials! In the Austrian talks – only for memory: This is where the heads of the party come together, which you have once invited; all of this has now come to an end, and I also tell you why – there have been excellent approaches. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No more coming together!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] I must expressly praise this once, Federal Chancellor! Almost all the parties have participated. In any case, we also know that we are not lazy – and have agreed with you and with Mr. Vice-Chancellor where we can save in the school sector, in the health sector, in all these sensitive materials – yes, right, that's a long time ago – or with the same amount of money we can generate even more services for the citizens. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's been a long time!]] We will also need that because we know that in the health and care sector, if we do not do anything about it, the costs will explode. This does not have to cause any panic, but if you introduce the countermeasures, you could keep the cost line constant there without any losses in the services. That would be important, because I think we want to remain a social state. What – and now I come to the main topic of my contribution – has happened? – The opposition at the federal level is progressing very well. We already said – it was, of course, more familiar, not confidential, that's why I can say it: Watch out, vice chancellors and chancellors! The heads of state will spit you into the soup, that it will still be unpleasant! – And it came even worse! Yeah, it's gotten much worse! I shall now present this to us a little wordrap-moderately, where the heads of state stand all over the stable in an organized way: in the health reform, in the school reform, in the reform of the financial balance, in which the heads of state have their hands on the money and let their mayors suffocate like Lakaien, because they are distributing the money from the “dark cash” there to return as an honorary citizen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In all these areas of the government offices, which are completely superfluous, at national level: Mr. Federal Chancellor, have you ever asked Mr. Voves – I always do, but he is running away from me; that is now his favorite discipline – why he has a larger government office than you? It's unexplained to this day! Why does he need 30 employees in his government office? You've got less! This does not go any further, and so you can say that the fish is less smelly on the head at increasing speed. So it is, even in the national governments; and the national conference, that is the worst at all. From my point of view, this blockade body is eliminated from the real constitution. The national conference is really the organized centre of the innovation-resistant blockadelite. We won't let that happen anymore! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to school policy, the proposal now comes from there that all teachers, under quotation marks, should be “transformed”. - After congratulations! This is not about school politics, it is about classical party politics: the final takeover of power of the party book on teachers. They are planning this, namely the heads of state, but you are not defending yourself! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] What are you federal chancellors for?- Oh, my God! And you can't hear anything from the vice chancellor. This is probably the case now, because his uncle is the chairman there, but so it cannot go on! It is the same in health policy. – We also trust to say in country elections that it is not possible for any location to remain the same. A location guarantee can only exist if the locations are also ready to change, but your people are running around and promising everything. That's terrible! People are just being damned more – that's not how it is! You also need to be more honest on that point, and then we can organize it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And lastly, I call you in this context: Let us start with the federal states, because then there will really be something going on! There are billions to be collected over the years and in the long run. And one should finally trust to say that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8013	Mr Grosz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8034	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, today are watching this plenary debate in front of the TV at home! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, it would be at the height of the economic crisis, at the height of expenditure in that country, to show a new humility and finally to push forward an administrative reform in that country, which in fact deserves this name, namely to seek savings in its own field. Before Once again, without plans, visionless, unfrozen and unfailingly gripping on the wallets of the Steirers, who dare Austrians with tax increases, I would recommend that, in these next days, you will finally use this administrative reform and the budget to clean up once in your own field. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In every decent household in Austria, the climbing is also turned from top to bottom and not from bottom to top. That is why I am and therefore also of the opinion that, first and foremost, your own areas, their red-black areas, which, like the fat eye on a beef soup, need to be exposed to all the institutions of the Republic, and a diet, before you plan a tax attack on the Austrians once again after the Styrian and after the Vienna country election – a tax attack which today is to be taken by the Minister of Finance here at this current hour, means that next year every citizen of this Republic will pay €800 more on taxes, on fees and charges per year – and that at the height of a crisis, since the people of this country have no money at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] While you, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, have had imagination to improve your own standards of living – we are discussing in Styria the pension of Mr. Voves, who, after his political career on 26 May, took part in the debate. September 12 000 € will be received from Mercury Insurance, or from your Mr. Vice-Chairman Schützhofer, who will be on the bag with a 9 000 €-pension of the old political board system for the next few years – go here and kick all the people in this country again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] In my own country alone, there are 40 000 unemployed Steirers and 100 000 people live below the poverty line! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Steibl and Hakel.]] And at this point, you will increase the mineral oil tax, while your red and black officials like Ruttenstorfer, such as Ederer – thank you, Mr. Alt Minister Bartenstein, who was not affected by the crisis, for the comment about Mrs. Ederer – the gages at the OMV and the state-near companies or at Siemens and for paying off fat bonus payments. While you, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, want to close hospitals and increase contributions, your red-black officials are still wandering around in the 21 social insurance institutions of this country and only at the location of the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse 52 million € in salary costs a year. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Just create envy! Just cheer envy!]] Now multiply this by 21, and then you know how this deficit is being achieved for the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Instead of finally implementing an administrative reform in this country, plan an attack on the hacker scheme because they believe that people with 45 working years should work another five years instead of finally looking at your red-black functional justice. I read today that your Mr. Altkanzler Schüssel has already possessed enough imagination to set his standard of living at the Atom lobby. [[the speaker holds up a newspaper article with the title “Atom: Shell casht full”]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Today we have carried Mr Faul to the grave politically – I welcome his successor! – who has received three salaries with 14 000 € and has carried out zero work. You have a lot of imagination when it comes to improving the living standards of your own functionaries, but are imaginative and grasping into the pockets when it comes to the Austrians. It is therefore time for a new humility, also for a new asceticism in politics. The 21 social security institutions must be grouped before tax increases, The national school councils and district school councils must finally be abolished if one confesses to a new secondary school in that country. Members of nine state governments, in most federal states 56 country officials and government offices with hundreds of incompetent political officers are pointless in times of a savings package. And that's why I'm telling you: Save it there! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Binder-Maier.]] Let's get the €3 billion out there before you plan a attack on the Austrians once more as a modern predatory! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would make more sense than the quake from the last series, with your gags, where you can decide anyway. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You don't know how an Austrian has to deal with 700 €! Show humility, show Askesee, or you will receive your distrust request in the afternoon if they earn it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8156	Now comes Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8178	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The economic crisis presents us with enormous challenges. I am constantly experiencing this in Community policy: Only the Styrian communities are faced with loss of revenue of €200 million and have problems in maintaining their liquidity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] They lack the money to take measures to increase childcare to invest. This is very, very central and a basic condition that we need. It surprises me a lot when you say: Banks, insurance companies, large corporations were too big to fail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] What does that mean? – They were too big, the state had to help them, had to help them. And now, at once, the ÖVP – Mr Bartenstein – says that I hear it when it comes to banking – these large companies are “too big to pay”. So I think it must be a matter of course that also those who have caused them, and these are big financial companies, these are big companies in the Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well that the eight revenue-based measures proposed by the Social Democracy – the Styria was the driving force – especially those that ask for cash – and this has nothing to do with the most socially weak and the middle class – which have caused this crisis. Having over € 1 million of assets means to me, even the ability to make a contribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're in the administration, not in the economy. It can't be that it's about maximising profits in the administration, but it's a central goal that has to be close to citizens. The administration is a service service for the citizens. But they can also be insured: As a business administrator, I am convinced that we need to work more efficiently. I have looked very closely at the 315 proposals made by the President of the Court of Auditors. You've already shown the brochure! On page 11 you can read how reformful this social democratic government and even social democratic leadership is. [[Ironic cheerfulness with ÖVP, FPÖ and greens.]] 40 percent of the proposals – confirmed by the President of the Court of Auditors in his report – have been implemented. 22 percent of the proposals are in implementation. I mean, this is very, very much for three years of social democratic work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in Styria, we have implemented a lot of administrative reform projects over the past five years. Yes, we have even gone so far as to organise, together with the mayors, a restructuring of Styria in 80 small regions and 7 regions. It is central to keep in mind the proximity of citizens and, above all, to take people into account in these reform movements. You can't order that, you need strong partners on the spot. I think it has succeeded in doing things more efficiently, more cost-effectively, through strong cooperation between the communities in small regions. However, it must be possible for communities in childcare to provide full-day childcare to expand their infrastructure. It must be possible for them to finance all of this. [[Abg. Rädler:mower!]] We have, of course, gone very far in the current account, in which criticism of tasks in Styria has gone very far. We look at every single performance. For me, it is impressive what officials – that is, their personal workplace and their personal task – do every day in order to work more efficiently and citizens. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be possible to make saving an absolute ceiling without using those who were the causers to co-finance. [[Abg. Kickl: There you are far away!]] I think that must be our central task. I am always a partner for strong reforms. We must not focus on polemics or intermediate calls in the area of administration, but we must work in a solution-oriented and sustainable way for Austria. In this area I am looking forward to a very, very good cooperation with you all for a strong, sustainable Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8296	The next item is Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8319	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ is irritated by this contribution itself. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You don't have to be afraid! It's good!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate we are having is completely wrong and, at present, only at the expense of the regions, democracy and also at the expense of the citizens. We of the ÖVP have already proved in the lead in 2001 with Wolfgang Schüssel that we can and must make an administrative reform. This was even praised by Professor Raschauer, who is always praised by the SPÖ and the Greens, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the way Joseph Pröll is going is to say: Yes, save intelligently, in bureaucracy, in administration, in control!, is the only right way, and not only constantly to think about new taxes and how we can burden people. That is why we should go this way. Mr Schickhofer, you have now challenged me to deal with Styria as well. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What happened in these five years under Franz Voves? - Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! Nothing happened. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What does Voves want? – Voves wants a ballast of the regions. He wants the closure of 17 district captains, mine Ladies and gentlemen, and want to bring them together in seven mega-district teams. [[Abg. Hook: Citizens' Service Centres!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For example, this would mean an hour's driving time for the people of Murau to pick up about a driver's license. That's Voves: He wants to burden people, ladies and gentlemen! What did Voves do? – He has reintroduced around 1,000 national officials: loud party workers, ladies and gentlemen! - That's Franz Voves! You, Mr Schieder, propose to close 300 hospitals. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] This means job losses in rural areas as well. These are the proposals that come from the SPÖ and Voves, ladies and gentlemen. What did Voves do? – He has increased the KAGes Board from two to three members. This again means more costs, including in the KAGes, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that all these proposals that come from Franz Voves – hopefully they don't come long anymore, I think on Sunday is over anyway – are necessary to say that in Steirisch, as they only lead apart, separate people, and people are burdened. We can't need that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we need and what we need to do is to abolish the pension privileges at ÖBB, at the National Bank, is a pension harmonisation also in the countries. [[Abg. crochet: big farmers!]] Heupl still doesn't want to know about it. The state is currently paying €8 billion for pensions, and by 2030 this figure will explode to €19 billion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We need to abolish these privileges. Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly support the initiative to deregulate once, with the aim of burdening citizens from unnecessary legislation and strengthening their economic location. Research into federal law and EU rules that are excess would be necessary. [[Abg. Petzner: For decades you have set the head of state! What did you do?]] This reduces the administrative burden. Our departments are testing this right now. We will then implement it accordingly. [[Abg. Petzner: What did the Klasnic do for the administrative reform?]] I do not think it would be right for Mr Voves to go here now and say that we are reducing the land days. Do you know what we need and what led to it in the Styria under Franz Voves? - We need even more control. And this must also be true of the country day. For example, the Landtag prevented the Voves proposal from selling ESTAG to the French energy group EDF. What happened in the cities and markets Fohnsdorf, Driften, Tentweg? [[Abg. Hakel: Donnersbach?]] Where has the control activity of Franz Voves remained? - She wasn't there. There were millions wasted, ladies and gentlemen. And people will eventually be burdened with new taxes. [[Abg. Grosz: Hartberg! The Black Hartberg!]] That's why I'm saying: Politics does not need people who sow envy, who divide, engage in class struggles, who are constantly running around with new tax ideas, thereby burdening people who disperse people, but we need people with handshake quality, with honesty, with predictability. [[Abg. Grosz: That's why a voice for Gerald Grosz!]] [[Abg. Hook: Franz Voves!]] That is why I am convinced that Hermann Schützenhofer will win these country elections on Sunday with the Styrian ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8538	Mr Kurzmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8560	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Under the topic of administrative reform, there is a magic formula, namely the non-decision of politics, because you, ladies and gentlemen, would have been able to initiate an administrative reform for a long time, an administrative reform that really takes the term seriously! They have done nothing in this area at all. For example, you should have received only the suggestions of the Federal Court of Auditors. For weeks, the government parties have refused to discuss the tax package that will come to the Austrians at the end of this year. You don't want to admit that you want to clean up the Austrian population in the next few years. Only in December, after the country election in Styria and the country election in Vienna, do you want to let us know how many billions you want to extort from the local population. Only then will the Austrians learn that they have to pay the bill for a false policy that they have to answer for the past months and years. There is already the question: Why should we tighten the belt? – There is a good example for this: Because you, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, have easily given €21.3 billion in loans and state liabilities to the Republic of Greece into a corrupt, political system, because in Greece the population does not benefit, but, above all, speculators and banks, and because you, ladies and gentlemen, even though you are breaking the Austrian federal army in Austria, are helping to uplift another country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] For example, if we learn that 86 000 tank grenades are to be purchased with the aid funds of the Federal Republic of Germany or Austria for the highly equipped Greek army, which has over 1,600 Leopard-1 and Leopard-2 tanks, we say: [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] [[Abg. I can't believe it.]] We don't play with the liberals! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not with us, ladies and gentlemen! We consistently demand: Our money for our leuk’! [[The speaker put a sign on the speaker’s desk, including the following: “For this we are fighting: Our money for our luthier! If you want, choose FPÖ. We are home!"]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The money, ladies and gentlemen, that you're sinking abroad doesn't benefit our citizens! There were 50,000 unemployed in Styria last year. You've done far too little. We urgently need thousands of full-time jobs in our country. There is nothing to do with part-time jobs or with retrainings about mass unemployment that we have experienced in Styria since the Second World War. It has already been mentioned: the 1. May next year. What about the Styrian workers? – There are hundreds and thousands of Hungarians and Slovenians who are currently unemployed in their countries. There are over 400 000 unemployed in the Hungarian sector, over 100 000 unemployed in the Slovenian sector, and you were not prepared to renegotiate in the EU to extend the term of protection for our labour market. That, ladies and gentlemen, we would have done freedom of movement! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need the billions you have sunk in Greece to increase security in our country. Since the opening of the eastern borders, security has fallen in our country and crime has increased dramatically. As a liberal, we say: We need at least 500 police officers in Styria immediately, and not, as the Minister of the Interior said, perhaps in 2013 or 2014. [[Abg. Grosz: This is the next debate, the asylum debate!]] We need the billions you've been wasting in Greece, too, in order to avoid the hospital closures. The Secretary of State is sitting here today, he was born in summer. All the small hospitals have to be closed sometime! [[Abg. Strache: A cleanery is that, really!]] Ladies and gentlemen, does this mean that of 24 Styrian hospitals 21 are closed and then perhaps only Rottenmann, Bruck/Mur and Graz are left? [[Abg. Work: Three hospitals!]] That can't be, we can't imagine the sick people and the injured who are transported over hundreds of miles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is unsocial, ladies and gentlemen. Start saving yourself! It has already been said today: Mr. Landeshuptmann has an office with 26 employees, the head of state has 22 employees, in total the ladies and gentlemen in the government offices cost us 7.5 million €. There must be a start on saving – and not on the Austrian population! As a liberal, we are at the side of our Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8699	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8721	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! How much does the pressure to reform in Austria have to be taken seriously to rework and reform the administration? Is the most severe financial crisis since the Second Republic: yes or no? – I have to say today that the most severe financial crisis since the Second World War is obviously not enough in Austria to send an administrative reform seriously on the journey. What you said today, Mr Bundeskanzler, has more frightened me or can almost frighten you. Now you have moved the budget extra! Now you have made extra efforts to submit everything later, to draw up the proposals already, and today you say you will search through, you will start first, you will search through the laws and you will find solutions and concepts. What have you done all the last months, where we have been waiting for the budget, in the hope that something will actually be done behind the scenes? – The fact is: It was obviously wasted and wasted time because there is no proposal in the area of administrative reform. You have not put on the table a single proposal today, not a single one! This is really bitter, especially because the people who work in these areas, for example in the nursing sector, in kindergartens, in schools, do a lot – you have rightly said – but sometimes for very little money do this work. It is precisely for these people that an administrative reform would be planned, especially in parallel to this in “Betonburgen” – especially in the school system and in the health system – that millions will simmer. It would have been Your job has been on the one hand to support these people in such a way that you can make your work better, easier, with more resources, and on the other hand, finally take up reforms there and take initiatives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Those who prevent it have a name: Austria suffocates on the misunderstanding federalism! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Every small measure, every proposal is suffocated in the germ and beaten to death by nine national leaders who see each proposal as an attack on their power structure and their competences and who are unable to discuss reasonable reforms. As I said, Austria suffocates on the misunderstanding federalism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This attitude: Simmering against Kapfenberg, if the federal government proposes something, is already calling out the formation and one is set up to prevent that!, is the attitude that can never lead to a reform. The other attitude we now need would be to see that it can be a win-win situation for all if we are to draw up reasonable joint proposals. The big question I would like to ask you today is: What happened to the “Austria talk ”? Will there continue to be administrative reform? What was actually proposed from the great conclave by the Minister of Finance, who wanted to lock everyone into a room or a monastery, until white smoke rises? What has become of all these proposals to put the administrative reform on the rails, except that you say today: We're going to run through, maybe we're gonna do something!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you know when the first people started working in the field of administrative reform? One of us is in the ranks, that's Alexander Van der Bellen. This was in 1979, when the first State Reform Commission, the Administrative Reform Commission, was set up. To this day, it has not been possible to deal seriously with something. However: We have to! You already want to draw up the proposals in this budget, which are supposed to be legislative administrative reform proposals, otherwise you will not get to grips with the budget. So: Finally put your proposals on the table! Sage Give us the following: What's going to be You're actually doing it? And what have you actually done in the negotiations in the federal states? – The suspicion is that it's not under the line at all. This is really unfortunate – I would like to stress this again – because: If you look at the situation in the childcare facilities, in the schools, then you can find that there is no staff everywhere, no money anywhere. In Vienna, the ÖVP posters: No container classes! – Yes, is this requirement still to be met when, at the same time, the budget is shifted, the administrative reform does not bring anything further and is just provoking that children are sitting in container classes? Is that even further? [[Abg. Head: But Schulerhalter is the city of Vienna!]] Yes, that's the next problem: In your opinion, school-keepers should continue to be a collection of posts, namely, municipality, country, federal government, school administration, district authorities. As an EIA, they are unable to give their signature for reasonable proposals in this regard and to say: Yes, we do! – This is very, very bitter especially in the school sector, because we need resources, because we need additional money, because we need additional teaching teachers for our children. It is particularly bitter that administrative reform in particular does not go a little further in this area. In the meantime, you have to ask yourself whether you are a chancellor and with the Minister of Finance as Vice chancellor a duo of absolute leadership in Austria – absolute leadershiplessness! They are puppets of the national leaders – and not anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8807	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8829	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one hears the speeches, the election speeches of the delegates – including you, dear Fritz Grillitsch – of the government parties – above all from the Styria; candidates you in Vienna?, you do not happen here today! – I wonder: [[Abg. Grill: Go, stop!]] Both parties have placed the head of state either for decades or now in recent years and criticize the states there. That's where you really have to get on your nose! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would be good, both in the countries and in the Federation, to work instead of fighting, dear Mr Fritz Grillitsch, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! This is what we would have expected in view of this reform process; we have discussed it today. Today, we have the first National Council meeting after the summer break and we would have expected the agenda to be full, to be sitting there until early today and to negotiate loud legislative initiatives by the active federal government and the government parties here. But: What do we have on the agenda today? A law proposal, a rather strange one, provides that now civil servants may also read fairy tale books and that someone who refuses to serve with the weapon for reasons of conscience can do police service. This is the next item on the agenda. You brought together a bill, ladies and gentlemen! So don't tell us something about an active government that wants to contribute and carry on in the administrative reform! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a reflection of your policy: We are in the Constitutional Convention for 19 months – not a result because the Great cannot agree on a constitutional majority. Two years of special committee here in Parliament – no agreement. Or: Austria talks – when was the last Austrian talk? I can't remember. [[Abg. Kickl: It's been a while!]] Someday last year. There has been a good discussion, but no results, nothing! And then let us still be planted by the heads of state, I say in good Vienna, no matter what the federal state that aligns us: Half the National Council once! – Yes, we are, of course, for that too. We are always beginning to move forward with good example, but then you will also follow, ladies and gentlemen in the countries! We don't need 100 countrymen in Vienna! We do not need more than 1,000 district councils in Vienna, state government members, city councils without a portfolio! In the other Länder, the situation is similar. There you could halve and save over €240 million a year. This is once a concrete proposal, but the federal government and the countries must jointly set up initiatives. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today, when we talk about civil service law and discuss administrative reform, I now hear in the already known military discussion: SPÖ and ÖVP are opposed to a suspension of general military service. Because it is that way – but if it makes sense, it is no longer discussed. The fact that 40 percent of the army budget we urgently needed to ensure safety standards goes up for the administration of this pointless military system, 55 percent of the personnel resources, of course, that is not discussed, because that is sacrosan. Or, for example, in the school discussion, ladies and gentlemen, we all the time hear something that should be of course, namely that the administration should be simplified, that at least one of these three school levels should be deleted, that not federal, country and district are responsible here, but that there should be federal competence and competence in schools. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Directors should once draw up independent performance standards and ensure appropriate competition. These would be interesting approaches, we have already discussed – no results. This should be done quickly, because we also need to discuss something else in the school sector, namely how to finally increase education standards and set them to an international level. This is important for the future of our youth, instead of arguing about whether the teacher can or should be with the students for two hours, but then it will be stretched out. Or Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lueger: Everything's so great, you said. Yes, Vienna is a beautiful city, but not because of your socialist government, but because there are great Viennans who make this city worth living. [[Abg. Kickl: Still!]] When we talk about the school system: Why Make You're not in Vienna something against the two-class school system you're supposed to fight in such a way that only those who can afford it send their children to private schools in the problem districts, while all the other children have to sit in classes where 95 percent are children with non-German mother tongues? There can't be a proper class! – No measures. Everything is cancelled by you in this respect, and it is not asked. In the legislation, ladies and gentlemen, one could save, finally regulate the competences. We don't need nine national laws with a huge legal effort! This could be concentrated on everything, even as far as the second Chamber is concerned: by not designing the Federal Council as it is now, with high-paid federal councils without competence, but by carrying out the tasks of Landtagsdelegates. There would be very, very many tasks we could discuss, but you are afraid of country elections – I also understand, especially in Vienna, because if the BZÖ moves in, the absolute is gone from Mr Häupl. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] That's your standard in politics. But this is too little for a proper, forward-looking government policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8940	Mr. Dr. Strutz is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8961	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High Parliament! Herbert Scheibner is perfectly right: Today, red and black have given beautiful election speeches, but they have not provided a single sentence in their contributions to the fact that there is a willingness, whether in the health field, in education, in the field of public administration, to actually take up reforms. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] But what else should one expect when a Member comes out of here and says that the discussion is completely wrong when Grillitsch from Styria gives a speech of election for his candidates and talks about it – and that was so revealing! – that if the county captains are put together, the people would have to drive 100 kilometers to pick up the driver's license. Mr Grillitsch, the driver's license has been sent directly by the state printing company for three years now! No one has to drive to the District Headquarters anymore! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at the FPÖ as well as the Deputies Jury and Linder.]] This was so revealing to me from this discussion, because we have been discussing an administrative reform for a long time: Job Reform Commission, Austria Convention, Expert Group, Administrative Innovation Programme, Administrative Quality Plan and, and, all, all the keywords of this Federal Government, but there has not been a single step forward in this matter. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said that administrative reform does not mean personnel reduction. - That's right. That's not what anyone wants here. None of the honourable Members in the House would like staff to be reduced, but: Where you, where your comrades are responsible, such as now at the ÖBB, there is no administrative reform, but there will be staff, people will simply be thrown out! That's the truth. Let's see what your comrade Core says: 1 000 jobs are immediately deleted at the ÖBB! Why? We have no control of accounting and accounting. We don't know where we make money today. There are no identification numbers. There's no management. Yes, I do not go here and, as a Social Democratic, take the first step that I say, I cancel 1,000 employees, but I go here and introduce a accounting system, an accounting system, key figures so that these basic things are available at all. But that's in your heads: With you, administrative reform means redundancies, in all areas, and we do not want that! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Deputies Jury and Linder.]] Health is also a bad example. You have said here that the savings potential in the field of health insurance is set at €1.7 billion. You mentioned a few million savings. – Yes, where did these millions come from? Not by pooling 22 health insurance funds, not through administrative reform in this area, but because they have been shortened by the cures because they have been reduced in the pharmaceuticals because they have said the poorest and the weakest in society that depend on the support of drugs: Now take the generics, they're just as good as the original product! Your millions have come here, from the many small pensioners, from the sick people in Austria who depend on the relief. There you have saved, but you have not taken any action regarding the aggregation of the 22 health insurance companies, where everyone has been saying for years that we should put them together, you have not taken a step forward in this matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second area: Education. In reality, it is system-immanent why this red-black coalition government cannot agree on reforms: because both push in opposite directions. Mrs. Schmied, your party colleague, is the classic example. It has made reasonable proposals for reform in the field of education. It has the support of the countries, it has the support of experts in the field of education. But what happens? The staff representative, President Neugebauer, says: No more millimeters! [[Abg. Neugebauer: But that's a stupid thing!]] And you, Federal Chancellor, leave your own Minister of Education in the rain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All truly reasonable proposals are therefore out of the table because there must be a coalition. Mr President Neugebauer, respect for your enforcement, I am sorry only to Mrs Schmied, who makes reasonable proposals and is left in the rain by her own comrades. That's the pro-prinz government. I could be in the health field...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9033	Mr President, you have already clearly exceeded your speaking time. One final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9053	The final sentence reads as follows: Federal Chancellor! Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! Don't talk, but act!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9094	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9115	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! If it is said today that the red and black bacon has to be gone, and from your side there is no argument that the bacon exists, but you only argue that you have to protect the officials and thank the officials, I believe that this is really significant for the fact that you are not willing to work on the system and change the system. Not the officials are the problem, not the diligent employees are the problem, the system of double track, the system of empty kilometers are the problems we have in the state of Austria. And believe You're telling me: Many officials suffer because they know that the system is not working properly and that the system has very many double-tracks and is very inefficient. Mr Bundeskanzler, a very small example is the agricultural structure survey. Farmers are the most truly best-controlled people in Austria. [[Abg. Großruck: Best controlled!]] We know how many perverts they have, we know about every square meter of reason, we know a lot of data from the farmers. But we communities have to carry out an agricultural structural survey again. We have to collect data again, we have to work again. I don't think it can be in today's time that we afford this double track. That is just a small example, but there would be, I think, many more, many examples to mention. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: In Austria we have 22 health insurance companies, each of which has its own system, its own management. A small side shift: If we have to take over €100 million to help these cash registers, they go here and say we have a plus because they will include the help we have decided on in their revenue. And then they still show quite a nice plus instead of working efficiently and changing the system. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury and Dr. Strutz.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, make reforms, pack them together, and do not concur with each other when a proposal comes from the other side! Mr. Federal Chancellor, I still put hope in this red-black proporz government that you work together and say, once the gigel, once the gogel, but we do something. Something has to happen, something has to be changed on the system! It can't be that one side always says no reflexively when something comes from the other side. Now a small example: The Minister of Finance tells us that tax revenue is already rising again, we will not have to put on the tax screw that much. That means we don't have to do anything, because there's a little light look again. – It can't be! We want something done! Mr. Federal Chancellor, take an example in the Federal Republic of Carinthia! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We certainly have bad numbers. We certainly do not have good figures in Carinthia, but we are ready to make reforms. For example, we have addressed the hot topic of hospitals. We know that there is a need to make reforms in this respect, that something has to happen. Many other federal states are still suffering. We have managed to finally be controlled from one point of view and not to work on every hospital alone, with individual directors who are strong and are not willing to work together for the federal state of Carinthia. We attacked this in Carinthia. We have created competence centres in the administration, because it is not clear to me, as mayor, that I have seven, eight different departments with seven, eight different officials during a construction or commercial negotiation. We have dealt with the system, we have said something has to happen here, and we also know that these reforms will make a significant contribution to the recovery of the budget. The problem of civil servants' pensions will also be corrected tomorrow. The re-adjustments go over the stage tomorrow. Mr Bundeskanzler, we expect the same from you! Make reforms, show competence, and work to ensure that this state becomes slim and the money comes where we need it, to the socially needy citizens, and that we do not go down in a thick state!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9180	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. [[10:35:01]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9201	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: Current developments in asylum and migration policy at European level First of all, Mr Amon. You know, your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9229	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today a very central, an important issue, one of the most central challenges of our time, namely issues of migration, asylum and integration policy. And this is an issue that not only moves Austria, it affects all of us directly, more or less, but it is a matter that really concerns all of Europe. In Austria, 17.5% of people currently live in migration. In Vienna the average is 34.5%. This is a relatively high proportion, also in international comparison, in European comparison, and therefore a successful migration policy must also rely on a number of measures, on a mix of measures so that we can deal with these challenges. And if someone is a guarantee for a successful migration, asylum and foreign policy and integration policy, then this is our Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Maria Fekter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are fighting together for a European asylum system, because, as I said earlier, the question cannot be solved at national level, we must do so in a European context. It is about combating illegal migration, and above all it is about taking action, taking even more measures against international trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about implementing an efficient external border management and an improved, improved return policy into reality. In the context of a legal immigration policy, we must ensure that the reception capacities of our states, of the European Member States, are not overwhelmed by the fact that the individual is not overwhelmed with this issue, otherwise there is an anti-foreign nature. The wrong integration policy leads to situations that we all reject together. It is important for an open society and a liberal rule of law that he opposes illegal immigration, that we do not simply take note of the fact that there is no simple right to stay. It is also a matter of voluntarily returning illegally residers or, if necessary, of compulsorily returning persons. Indeed, a comprehensive immigration policy and the return of such persons must be enforced. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, your initiative of the ‘Forum Salzburg’, where many neighbouring countries are involved, and where the Ministers of the Interior here in Central Europe represent around 106 million citizens together, is an essential measure to be successful at European level on these issues which I have addressed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we talk about asylum and foreign law policy, then, of course, the question of crime is very often raised. It's obvious, that's a lot of polemization, that's not a question, but of course there's also a connection here. That is why, of course, security policy measures, as she has put forward by Federal Minister Fekter, are correct, necessary and important, such as those that asylum seekers contribute that they have an obligation of presence when they are new to our country, that they help to determine whether there is a real reason for asylum or whether it is, in fact, illegal immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, our common goal is to make Austria the safest country in the world, a country in which there is also a very high, yes the highest quality of life. It is about ensuring the collective need for security that exists in the population in the sense of a democratic rule of law and that the subjective sense of security is also great in the population. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to Mrs. Federal Minister, but especially to our head of state in Styria, Mr. Hermann Schützenhofer, for the fact that the question of this subjective security needs has been taken very seriously and that, in tough negotiations – for you, it is embarrassing for Mrs. Glawischnig, if you do not like it together with me – it has succeeded in imposing on the Styria 300 additional police officers. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But this is embarrassing!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We think this is necessary and important. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Make street campaign, but not in Parliament!]] Mrs Glawischnig, it is not only about the subjective need for security, but also about what changes objectively in safety. In this regard too, Hermann Schützenhofer thanked God that if you stand up for more Styria in a positive sense, you can also move a lot. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You are really embarrassing!]] It has succeeded in reducing the number of housing collapses by a quarter in Styria by means of security measures. This is a successful security policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has succeeded in reducing the number of house collapses by 45 per cent, ladies and gentlemen, by means of security measures carried out by the Schützhofer department. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This too is a success that could be achieved together with Hermann Schützenhofer and Maria Fekter. Due to the increased presence of our police officers in Styria, it has succeeded in achieving 86 percent reduction in car thefts. This is a successful security policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a big difference between us and some opposition parties. We have one thing in common, namely that we have problems – it is necessary to identify problems that arise in connection with security policy issues, it is necessary to identify problems that exist on issues of migration, asylum and foreign policy, that is all right – but the difference between you and us is: They only show the problems – we also offer solutions to these problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is the difference between you and us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kickl: They cause the problems, we will solve them!]] It has shown itself one thing, and for this one must be especially grateful to Hermann Schützehöfer from Styria: It has been shown that if you strive intensively for your country of origin, if you intensively introduce yourself to the relevant Vienna offices, if you are taken seriously in the federal capital, then you can also achieve a lot for your federal state, ladies and gentlemen! This is, I believe, a message that is necessary because we are currently discussing a lot about federalism. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We are discussing questions concerning the federal states, questions of how the federal states can be strengthened. However, they can only be strengthened if serious policies are pursued when politics is pursued in the sense of the whole, and if we try to work together, not only to list problems, but also to solve problems. Thank you, Maria Fekter, thank you, Hermann Schützenhofer, for achieving so much for safety!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9391	Mrs Fekter spoke in favour of an introductory opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9423	High house! Dear visitors to the visitor gallery, especially those from Tyrol!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9449	I'm sorry to interrupt. It's not allowed to be scouted at the gallery! This is clearly regulated in the Rules of Procedure and in the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9468	Dear spectators in front of the TV screens! Migration, asylum at European level – all EU Member States face similar challenges, enormous pressure from refugees, immigration efforts and flows, because Europe is a region in which there is peace, in which there is mostly security and in which high social standards prevail. We therefore need, first of all, a common asylum policy. “Joint” means common standards in this context, and not a central system in which we are told by Brussels where it goes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we need a common fight against illegal migration, particularly in the Mediterranean and also at the European Union's south-east external borders. Thirdly, we need an efficient return policy so that those who are not allowed to stay in our country, because they are illegal because they have a residence ban, can quickly and efficiently return to their countries of origin. Fourthly, we need integration measures for those who are already here and who are allowed to stay, and these integration efforts must be a priority for each new move. Fifth, we must take into account the interests of Austria if people are to come to our country. We must take into account the capacity of the population and we must ensure that our social systems are not overloaded. There can be no immigration into poverty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sixthly, we must stop the flow of refugees at the external borders. We must not encourage the tractor organizations to bring the people to us. It's inhuman to suggest to people that if they're told they'll somehow go through with us illegally for a while, then they'll be allowed to stay. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Then why are you doing it?]] This is an inhuman strategy. [[Abg. Vilimsky: But you do it!]] That is why I have here in Parliament presented a more stringent right of foreigners, which is gratefully decided by a majority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has a long tradition, a good tradition of helping people seeking protection. It is precisely from this experience that I am tremendously strong in the European Union and I am articulate clearly what is possible with us, what has tradition in Austria with regard to our humanitarian mission over years and what is abuse that needs to be effectively combated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, we need the same standards and procedures across Europe. Similar cases need to be treated equally throughout Europe and they have to achieve similar results. It cannot be that we in Austria fulfill our mission and go to cover our neighbouring countries. That can't be! Treaties that we have concluded must be respected by all EU countries, including Italy, including Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I do not want a central asylum system, managed by Brussels. I cannot imagine Brussels explaining the world to us on our humanitarian mission. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Who is “Brussels”? Who do you mean?]] I cannot accept quota distributions controlled by Brussels. We shape the refugee world nationally, but we insist that all EU Member States and all our neighbours apply the same high standards as we do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor can I imagine Brussels setting quotas, how many people may come from Africa, how many people may come from the war regions of Afghanistan or from the crisis areas of Iraq-Iran, and then at least a quota for us, just as Brussels has tried at Guantánamo. At that time I said: Not with Austria! We want to decide for ourselves how we design and organize this system. – And we have proved that we can. Let the others take an example! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We would like to decide more for ourselves! We would also have liked to have decided for ourselves in Greece!]] I see several areas of problem in the proposed amendments in the EU's legislation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, we have a strong vote in Brussels. [[Abg. Grosz: Yes!]] With the ‘Forum Salzburg’, a quarter of the Member States have a veto right to majority decisions and more than 106 million citizens are represented. The “Forum Salzburg” – I have invited all my colleagues – has already discussed this strategy in Fuschl. I want solutions, not just bragging, just like you do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: We always see this as you fall into Brussels! Who the Besenstiles!]] The Commissioner for Migration and Asylum will come to Austria over the next 14 days because she knows very well that if we act together with our neighbouring countries in the ‘Forum Salzburg’ that we are seen as a counterpart to her proposals, she will not be able to enforce them. We are well supported in the European Parliament. For example, I cannot imagine that from the first day on, asylum seekers will be able to achieve all the social benefits we offer. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has the highest social benefits in Europe. What would happen if such a scheme were to come? – The tractor organisations would bring all refugees to Austria because we have the highest social standards. That can't be, therefore: [[Abg. Kickl: I'm looking here!]] Minimum standards are clear whether Austria is at all responsible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I cannot imagine – and this is a no-go – that the word “Asyl” at the same time permits full access to the labour market. Who will take legal care of a foreign employment permit if you only have to say “Asyl”?! - I can't. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] This overloads our labour market, and therefore the Commission cannot make such proposals. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are working together well when it comes to the interests of Austria. For example, the return charters to Nigeria, Gambia, Georgia, Armenia or Kosovo are financed by the EU. We've built up the know-how. We have organised all these flights through Frontex, the EU Border Protection Agency, as a Leading Nation, in order to cooperate with our neighbouring countries. That the EU is supporting us with a lot of money, I think it is necessary, justified, and we will further develop this cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will continue to work to ensure that Frontex, the Border Protection Agency, secures the EU's external borders efficiently. This is difficult in the Mediterranean. I am quite aware of the human suffering of those who are trying to get to Europe in crowded boats, and we must find a solution, even because there are many dead people to complain about. We can't look away, we can't leave these people to their fate. The problem of border security must be solved together with Frontex so that these people do not get into the boats at all. I therefore support the efforts to find solutions in North Africa to protect people from this suffering. This humanitarian order situation: Help for those who need them prevent abuse, do not allow illegal migration, are not the market for the tow trade, serves the well-being of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9694	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour is also only 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9718	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Let me make a statement at the beginning. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Is the shooter really so good?]] I believe that, when we talk about foreign policy, migration, integration, but also asylum, we should always be aware of the human perspective, including our humanitarian mission, and also of the fact that we have to act in the sense of the Austrian Federal Constitution, the Convention on Human Rights and the Geneva Convention on Refugees. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does this also apply to budgetary policy?]] Let us not make the mistake – which you repeatedly commit, ladies and gentlemen – to mix all these questions and just to startle fears! Our citizens have a right to it, and for us too, it would be beneficial for us to discuss and deal with these key issues accordingly – even then, ladies and gentlemen, when country elections are on the doorstep. In this case, the discussions have their own dynamic. I am pleased, for example, that the beautiful capital of Vienna with mayor Häupl has taken such a positive development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am glad that Franz Voves from the Green Mark has made a beautiful country. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're all professionals, Werner Amon, we can list all this here, but I think we should get to the core of the thing. This federal government has agreed in its government agreement – I am glad, Mrs Federal Minister, we have negotiated this in many discussions and finally decided – that the measures we have taken in recent years in the field of foreign law were the right ones. We currently have the shortest expiry times we have ever had. Remember the contributions to the debate at the time, how against the asylum court has been polemized! In fact, from the point of view of the rule of law, humanity is a success story. You have to congratulate the president and his staff, colleague Amon. You have to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister – no question at all! – of course, we will try to get European minimum standards, but I believe that first of all, enforcement deficits that exist in other European countries must be eliminated. We cannot pursue continuously different legal instruments. With us, it has a long tradition that residence permits do not automatically also mean work permits, and no one will want us to proceed without letup. I believe that common European policy must not mean that it is at our expense, but we must invite our European friends to work with us in an efficient, modern, just and humanitarian way. Only in this way will it be possible to inspire the people of Europe and, finally, also with us in Austria for this path. Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has undertaken – under the title "Red-White-Rot-Card" at the present time at the social partners level, and we will then hold this discussion here – to find the necessary forces for our home country, for our labour market very accurately, accurately and efficiently. That is why I believe that joint efforts are necessary to raise the minimum standards in the European countries, to be adapted to our needs, but I will always take the floor that we resolve these central issues nationally, Mrs Federal Minister. I am glad that we agree, because this is about our citizens, and I believe that in recent months and years we have proved that, always at the bottom of the Austrian federal constitution, we have never lost sight of our humanitarian mission, the right, efficient and necessary measures. This applies to the national level, but this also applies to the European level. Ladies and gentlemen! That's an important topic! I think we are called together to go to work here. I would like to invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9787	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9809	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been said: Asylum policy, migration policy and security policy, this concerns all of us. And it was also said that it is not just all of us here in Austria, but all of us who live here in Europe. Security is an essential factor for every society. U.S. psychologist Abraham Maslow is one of the most pressing needs of the people in his need pyramid. According to Maslow's scientific classification, security follows the needs of food, liquid and living space directly. What does that mean to us now? – For us from the ÖVP, this means that we want the people who live with us legally in Austria to live safely. We want the people who live here with us to feel safe. We want people to know their property protected, and we want everyone who goes home late at night to be able to go home safely so that they can get home well. That is what we want as an ÖVP, and we are doing something for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter said: It is committed at European level to ensuring that we reach common standards and common directives in Europe. Our Federal Minister will also insist that these security directives and the measures we adopt at European level are also complied with, because it does not help us at all if only we, as Austria, are the precursors, it must apply and comply with all 27 EU countries the same directives and the same measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already happened in Austria thanks to our Federal Minister very, very positive. Let's just think – she's already addressed it – about the first shot. I am very, very glad that we have the duty to attend. Because what has happened so far? People who have sought asylum in Austria have been plunged into illegality in a very short time, mostly after the first 24 hours. [[Abg. Kickl: We have confirmed this time and again!]] And that's what we can prevent. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for being able to enforce this in negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you!]] Austria is also a leader in deportations, in charter flights with which people who use asylum are postponed. This is very important for us Austrians – the Minister has already mentioned it. In particular, it is important that the costs in this case be taken over by the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So we don't have to pay for this on our own, Mr Kickl, because you're already calling in. But it is also essential for us that crime statistics are positive. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] The crime rate is declining; on average, by 10 percent in Austria. It is important to me as a founder and Grazer that this also applies to Styria and Graz, of course. We have a 7 percent reduction in crime in Graz. 7 percent, ladies and gentlemen, that means something! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] My colleague Amon has already done where these declines are. But, what is still essential to me, there is not only a decline in crime, but also an increase in the rate of education. A plus of 14.8 percent this year! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we take this compared to the previous year: We have 40 percent education rate this year, we only had 32 percent in the previous year. This shows that our actions, namely the measures taken by the Federal Government, the actions taken by our Minister and the measures we put in Styria. [[Abg. Strache: But the statistics are such that some offences do not appear at all!]] In this context, I should like to thank our country captain-representative Hermann Schützenhofer, who very much accepts the fears of the people who already recognize these fears. He has launched the “Safe Living – Protecting Property” funding project, which shows effect, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: This goes beyond reality!]] You can't just push the numbers out here. What else – my colleague Amon has already mentioned it – in addition to contributing to safety, the 300 policemen are more for the Styria. As ÖVP and Hermann Schützenhofer, in cooperation with the Ministry and the Executive, we will ensure that the Austrians and the Steirers can live safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9923	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e9945	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Amon in particular! Because that was already neat, as you have accused us in the direction of FPÖ, we would show up problems. Yes, we are opposition party, and we will continue to show problems. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I'll tell you one thing: Show problems means that problems are present. And now I'm wondering, Who is the cause of problems in the area of security policy, immigration policy and integration policy? [[Abg. Öllinger: Kurzmann!]] It is you who are responsible for it that you are the causers of exactly the problems we are talking about today. And I would also like to write to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, one of the main books, because you are in the tradition of your predecessors, whether it was Platter or Strasser. Always before elections, the ÖVP acts as if it were perhaps part of the Freedom Party, it plays the patriotic card and pretends to represent the domestics accordingly – now I am speaking, Mrs Minister, but you can speak again afterwards – but the day after that, you are back in the boat with this SPÖ and are actually doing the same policy as the SPÖ, sometimes even worse. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No, no, that's not so!]] [[Abg. Strache: For example Eberau!]] This was shown in the years 2000 to 2006 when you were from the ÖVP with the BZÖ group in the government. At that time, the immigration rate was twice as high as under a SPÖ chancellor. You have to say that in all clarity and openness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to say that now that I am at the SPÖ – it is not quite the subject, but it is important for the High House –: Do you know what's really inappropriate? It is inappropriate that you send a delegation of ambassadors to a Stalinist regime, to a dictatorship – to Pjöngjang – to a party day and thus cause serious damage to the Republic of Austria. Avoid such things in the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are once again in the field of security policy, immigration policy and we still remember the descriptions of the Federal Ministers, how great all this is, how good it all works. Mrs Minister, this is the reality: [[The speaker refers to newspaper cuts]] Band war in the middle of Vienna. Rival Romanians got together. The war of foreigners in Vienna. Romanian gangs deliver wild shooting. Turks and Chechens, mass beatings. – This is the real policy, and I will give you a few more examples afterwards. But many people ask themselves: Why is it? Why has Europe changed in such a way? Why have the boundaries been opened? Why did you install Schengen? What's behind this plan? There is a good answer to this question by no one less than the head of the FRONTEX agency, namely Mr Ilkka Laitinen, for he says something very significant: “When the Schengen area and free movement are extended, this first reduces security. More people will succeed than before in slipping through the cane. That's a fact. But that is politically so wanted. You take the less of security quite consciously in purchase for more free movement...“ That’s exactly it, Federal Minister! This is the policy you are pursuing, because you are following a Europe idea that is not ours. Our model is a community of sovereign states, to each other at the same level that cooperates, but not a plan to bring Europe into a mixed-maze situation, to ignore all regional differences and, essentially, to make only policy for the industry which looks so as to make a single market, a single production market and probably the end of the single European consumer. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, they are interwoven with exactly this industry and this financial economy. The political leader of your current supervisor is Mr. Konrad from the Raiffeisen Group, your former ÖVP-Obmann Schüssel is now on the Supervisory Board of a German nuclear company. He's not here today. Maybe he's visiting fire sticks – or he can be sick as well. It's not healthy, it's all this radioactivity. Allow me to add some polemics. It is not all right for Austrian parliamentarians to sit on the Supervisory Board of a German nuclear company, while there is consensus in the National Council that Central Europe should remain nuclear-free. That's a little more than inappropriate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us go back to security policy, asylum; the Minister has been so stressed that everything is all right here: Asylum-seeker quartet cracks 19 safes. 300 000 € spoil, 120 000 € Property damage. Four Georgian – yes, Mrs. Korun, do you want to guess who? – asylum seekers were. Georgian Mafia pulled her net over half Europe. Among them two very large numbers in the hierarchy, two pats, soldiers all over Austria. 4000 breakdowns per year. Bandenwarte live in Graz and Vienna. – And again – quiz question to the Greens –: They're asylum seekers. There are many examples here to further carry out all of this. I say that an asylum policy of the future can only be seen as one that is at the external borders of Europe, whether it is in Morocco on the one hand or in Ukraine, setting up central services and that asylum seekers will no longer be allowed to go to Europe in the future. Then we have some guarantee that we will not be overrun by criminal gangs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10067	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10104	I am also not sure if I would be given political asylum at the ÖVP. These are the calls from these series. So far, I haven't done it yet. [[Abg. Grosz: What is not, can still be!]] The current European hour was, I thought, Mr Amon, the current European hour on ‘Current developments in asylum and migration policy at European level’. You didn't say a word to that. [[Abg. Amon: You didn't listen to that!]] I've listened to you very carefully. Not a word! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There was a talk of all kinds of Styria, there was talk of Vienna. It is quite obvious that the ÖVP believes that it is possible to make a little campaign on this issue. I took the media with interest today that Mr Ulmer made the election campaign for Mrs Marek in Vienna, who was then in the Cabinet of Interior Minister Strasser. The ÖVP believes in winning votes in this way. This is not our way, but we take note of it. If blue and black throw each other to the chest in this way, I take note of that. Mr Amon, but a personal remark: Especially in your speech – by Mrs Fekter we are already used to that – everything is always mixed up: Asylum procedures, migration policy, economic migration and crime in all its shades. [[Abg. Head: No, no! Everything cleanly differentiated!]] If you then say – what is right – that many people live in Vienna, especially, with migration backgrounds, then this is, of course, perfectly correct. You're seeing this kind of person right now. I'm one of these guys – what does that mean in Jargon? – the first generation of neo-Austrians. I'm really tired of being thrown into a pot with criminals all the time. What are you doing? What are you doing? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have hundreds of thousands of people in Austria who are very well integrated who pay their taxes et cetera. And I'm one of those, I claim. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Always in this context. I'm really nervous about that. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, we need a common asylum law and so on, you have been running for quite a long time. - Yes, yes, eh! [[Abg. Amon: At Europe level!]] At European level? That is the primary right. I hope you know that as well as I do. Article 61 – I quote – Lisbon Treaty: ‘The Union shall ensure that persons at internal borders are not controlled and shall develop a common policy in the areas of asylum, immigration and external border controls based on the solidarity of Member States and appropriate to third-country nationals’. This is the primary law of the European Union. What that means in individual cases is, of course, a completely different story. It is Union law that a common asylum system is being developed in the Union. In principle, I think that this is also useful. Just what does that mean in the case of Malta, Mrs. Fekter? I mean, are we in Austria running the same church tower policy that the Austrian national leaders are running, so we are in favour of the European Union? – It is now true that Malta has a great deal to do with refugee flows. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: But Austria too!]] Austria too, but it does not have the same problems that Malta has. And so far I have not heard that Austria is very much interested in how to deal with such problems in the spirit of solidarity – and that must be something common. And last, Mrs. Minister: The quota distributions are not to be dictated by Brussels. - Well, what are you doing? We know very well that the Commission cannot agree. There will be a Council meeting, and there you have to take appropriate action to ensure that you have a lot on your side accordingly. I would have expected you to say something about the debate between President Sarkozy and Commissioner Reding, for example, on the issue of ‘Current developments in asylum and migration policy at European level’. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am not aware of any comment made by an Austrian minister or a minister who comments on this question. Read Mrs Reding's statement, then you will know where my sympathy is, where the sympathy of the Greens is in this matter. Certainly not on the side of President Sarkozy! Another thing: The ÖVP page is said to present the topic of migration policy. – We have not heard anything about migration, just about asylum procedures, asylum seekers and crime. I'll make you a suggestion: We all know that the proportion of highly qualified immigrants, i.e. the people who immigrate for economic reasons, is low in Austria. Let us give all the students who complete their studies here – in engineering, mathematics, in economics, in music, what I know –, automatically a work permit, then automatically the proportion of those economic migrants – I use this expression unpleasantly – will rise in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10229	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10250	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Minister! Mr Amon, do you say how stupid do you really think the Austrians are? You have the cutting, stand here and explain that this minister would have negotiated more for the Styria with a certain Hermann Schützenhöfer 300 policemen. Do you know what reality looks like? – In 2006, these fetzen papers were signed by Mr. Mayor Nagl with the predecessor of Mrs. Fekter, with Mr. Platter, and the 300 police already promised more for the Styria in 2006. In 2007, you went to Graz, signed this paper once again, killing the old signatures, and now again – two weeks before the election – they move back through the country and sign these agreements for a third time. Only with the one difference: that the Steirers are not so stupid and do not believe you after the third time. Whoever lies, you don't believe him. In your form, there is no question of whether you ever speak the truth, because you do not. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Steirers are not so stupid that they fall into your election campaign-gags. ==References====External links== December 2000: 714 executives; Staff of the Graz Executive, 31. December 2010: exact 714 executives, minus 32 persons who have been bred or whose weekly service has been reduced. – That’s the reality! So leave the blasphemy of the government bank! And even if you think with such a trembling voice that a person still believes you in this country, it is not the case. Her asylum policy in Austria is directed exclusively and always at the expense of the Austrians. The reality is a devastating one. What are we experiencing? – Hunger strike by Schubhaftlingen, who de facto extortion the state, our rule of law, organized beggar gangs in Vienna and Graz, all over Austria in the capitals of the country, which are part of trafficking in human beings. Poor, sick, old and disabled people who are exploited by mafia figures that cover you with your policies, so that they can do the dirty business on the streets of our country. ==References== December 2009 15 920 asylum seekers in basic care, only in Styria in the previous year 1 942 asylum seekers in basic care. The costs for this amounted to exactly € 15.3 million, according to your request, and 863 crimes were committed by these asylum seekers. I congratulate you on your powers of enforcement on the government bank, but when it comes to implementation, you are nodding – as usual – and the Austrians know that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 70 crimes per day alone in Graz and a 7 per cent reconnaissance rate for the burglaries are a disgrace for your policy, Mrs. Innenminister! The executives are all right. Our police do a good job, but they are abandoned by you when it comes to addressing new forms of crime in Austria. With your asylum policy, you have failed, and it is therefore the logical consequence – not the ideological, which some other polishers represent here, but the logical consequence – of finally separating the wheat from the sprout in the asylum policy. Against immigrants of the first, second and third generations in Austria, who have been best integrated, who supply their taxes, who have remained free of penalties, who have been able to carry out their work here, no one says anything. Our policy is not directed against these people, no, we even support these people if we at last demand you to take tougher action against criminal asylum seekers than before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Your policy has to answer for the fact that an asylum-seeker may be penalised twice, that he may be pushed away from you the third time he has drugged a woman's skull. This is not a security policy as we imagine it. Whoever becomes a criminal, who abuses the hospitality right here in Austria, has not lost anything in this country since that second! And because we have reached the European asylum policy, Mrs Home Secretary: I call for you to finally implement the Dublin Regulation and the Dublin Agreement! Austria and especially the Steirers have demonstrated a humanitarian heart in 1992 during the crisis: We've taken the refugees. However, this obligation on asylum law has been passed to the enlargement countries by the Dublin Agreement for a few years at the latest. And it is therefore primarily Slovenia, Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary that are responsible for asylum in Europe, because we have done our job in Austria, and we have done well because we have fulfilled our humanitarian duty. And that is why we finally demand from you a proper asylum policy instead of Lug and Trug, as we have been served by you for years, while the people in this country only live in uncertainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10345	Mr Grosz, I already have a little understanding of an emotionalized debate, but we are speaking in private afterwards. “Lug”, “Trug”, “Lüge” is not part of our repertoire! [[Abg. Grosz: All the truth! Give me an order call! Look at the policy of this Minister of the Interior! She fails on all lines!]] Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10376	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Values Advisors! High house! The current hour of European policy is a very important one. I only regret that the actual content falls victim to the election campaign. There is much to discuss here, and this without populism. There's a lot we need to work on. And since many things have already come up today, I will focus a little on the current political situation, which is also a direction for Europe. Those who cry the loudest today were also those who had the greatest immigration in the time of their government responsibility, including the FPÖ and the BZÖ. I know you've always pushed each other to the black Peter, but one of you was in the government at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will certainly not be able to deal with the immigration problem or asylum problems or crime and security issues that are to be considered separately. What happens is a hatred and the creation of enemy camps. They deliberately mix the concepts of asylum, immigration and crime. We must therefore explain to the spectators, to the Austrians what asylum is and what immigration means. In the meantime, I am aware of the fact that You deliberately try this and work with misinformation. [[Intrusions of the Abg. New builder.]] Let's be honest: The Austrians have a profound humanitarian attitude. Consider the Yugoslavia War or the humanitarian aid we provide to Austrians, for example for the flood victims in Pakistan or the earthquake victims in Haiti. We Austrians have a profound humanitarian attitude – that is what makes the Austrian soul. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Here you should not always play with feelings and startle fears, because of misinformation, false information comes from ignorance, and from it comes fear. [[Abg. Kickl: There's the chief specialist! He doesn't do anything else in the community building!]] And you, ladies and gentlemen, play with this fear and startle the fear of the stranger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You don't believe that anymore!]] Asylum policy means that refugees who have been politically persecuted in their country need to fear their lives to seek asylum from us, and not that criminals come across the border. [[Abg. Kickl: How many are there of those?]] They probably promise the Austrians in their election triads the blue from heaven, they promise something that is not even possible and feasible in the rule of law. They all throw into a pot, you criminalize the topic of asylum deliberately. [[Abg. New builder: It's not true! Such a fool! Complete nonsense!]] It is interesting that it is said that a current mail is curated by the FPÖ, which is sent to sympathizers and has the following text: "Go illegally to Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria or Turkey. Do not worry about visas, international laws, immigration rules or similar, ridiculous regulations. Once you have arrived, you will immediately request from the local authority a free medical care...’, and so on, and so on. It was just a small extract from a mail that was supposed to stir envy and hatred. And it would be far too much of the honour to talk about the Minaret game of the Styrian FPÖ, about this despised project at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The copy, H.C. Strache, who, like Jörg Haider at the time, tries to become state-bearing again and again when scandals come to light, is too much of the good. Propos hat: Mr Grosz, you have also promised the magazine “ÖsterREICH” that you will take your hat if you lose the choice. [[Abg. Grosz: That is not Austria, that is, Austria!]] [[Abg. May. Rudas: Goodbye!]] That also means putting your National Council mandate back, doesn't it? They say: Adieu, I'll take my hat, or you'll say, I'm already gone – I'm back – I'm gone again. However, on really important topics, decisions, changes, the Austrians have a reliable partner: the Styrian and Austrian Social Democracy, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10511	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10543	Mr President. Madam Minister of the Interior! Austria has a long tradition of granting asylum to people seeking protection, and we confess to that. The Minister for the Interior not only confesses to the election as she is accused, but the Minister of the Interior is taking a course that grants asylum seekers asylum, but is simply showing the Red Card to those who abuse asylum, or those who come to us through towbands. These people need to be postponed, and asylum applications need to be processed more quickly. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Reluctant applause!]] An important and correct approach by the Minister for the Interior is also the obligation to participate where, when they come to us, asylum seekers have a certain number of days of duty to attend so that they can find out where they come from, how old they are and whether they really have an asylum ground. That's good and right, and you don't have to fear it at all if you don't have anything to hide and if you don't come in principle to abuse. This emphasis by the Minister for the Interior is very, very important. It is always operated by the FPÖ and also by the BZÖ, especially but by the FPÖ, a kind of heating operation. [[Abg. Kickl: Stop it!]] [[Abg. Strache: Quotes from a newspaper!]] Mr. Vilimsky, you have chosen words such as "band war" and "masses". This warms and insecures people, and for such a panic, we are simply not available. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. These are quotes from newspapers! You can read it every day on the cover pages of the newspapers! Don't you read newspapers?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer holds a magazine in the height; a headline reads: “The Ausländer War in Vienna”.]] There has been an intensification in foreign law since the era of black Interior Minister. We have dismantled the “Asylrucksack”, we have constantly developed asylum and foreign law. [[Abg. Strache: The Zogaj family that could dance us for years on the nose!]] That is quite, very important, and if you can't join this and prefer to hate it and don't offer any problem solutions, then we're sorry. But we bear the responsibility, and that is good and right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think the security policy is very well taken up by the Minister for the Interior. During this legislative period, we have more than 1,000 policemen each year in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Since 2006, we have more than 200 police officers in Vienna, and between 2009 and 2013 a total of 2,250 new police officers will be serving in Vienna. This is not to be said away, that is a fact, and I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for that very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, you can't always hate and talk badly. [[Abg. Neubauer once again holds a magazine with the title “Krieg der Ausländer in Wien”.]] Mr President, if you keep newspapers up to date, this will not solve any problems at all. [[Abg. New builder: But you impoverished!]] The Minister of the Interior has set up the SOKO East, and you have criticized it. The SOKO East is very successful! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Crime in Vienna has fallen markedly, the breakdowns have fallen significantly by 19.2 percent, the breakdowns in cars have fallen significantly, namely by 25.7 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because nothing is there, everything is already cleared!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because the cars are all in Poland!]] – Mr Westenthaler, you can always cry out, but you have never been concerned with figures and facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The car thefts have also gone down, and the reconnaissance rate is increasing. This is only due to the Minister of the Interior and to her excellent measures! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The cars are all in Poland and handbags in Hungary!]] Finally, because today we are also talking about asylum and international problems at European level: It is interesting that a SPÖ delegation has traveled to North Korea, because North Korea is actually a security risk for the whole world. Obviously this has been paid privately, but I wonder what Mr Wittmann wanted to do as a constitutional speaker and yet very high representative of the SPÖ in North Korea. [[Abg. Strache: He will have given greetings at the party meeting there!]] The question is: Has he brought suggestions for the Vienna election and for Michael Häupl, how to exercise even more power in the future, or did he want to carry out the power exercise policy of Michael Häupl and the SPÖ Vienna to North Korea? – This is a question that remains open, but that would interest us very much, perhaps you can answer it on occasion.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10756	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10777	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The asylum and foreign policy of red and black has failed, it is largely ineffective. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A model example that has remained in memory of every Austrian is the long struggle for the deportation of the Kosovarian family Zogaj. There, Mrs. Federal Minister, have They can be danced on their noses for months, and that was really an example of how the state power capitulated in front of asylum seekers. All Austrians have been able to see this. I can only ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to take an example of a European statesman who is better able to handle asylum issues than you are: He's called Sarkozy, that won't surprise you. Take the French President's example of how to solve such questions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There have been 112 applications in the area of the Zogaj family with which they have delayed or prevented their deportation. This shows that our asylum and foreign laws are toothless and we urgently need to intensify them. And since we are so often at the Steiermark today: Recently, a Styrian newspaper was entitled: “Graze asylumers are starving freely”. These are the facts that we are experiencing, and not your security policy, which you conjure over and over again. How many detainees were released simply, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! These figures are not called the Minister of the Interior. In 2007 there were 665, still 464 in 2008 and 766 in 2009 – a record mark – and the figures for this year are not yet available. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for action! If we hear that Mr Spindelegger said in the summer of this year that we should allow another 100 000 qualified foreigners to enter Austria, this is proof of how wrong the previous immigration policy has been in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For, ladies and gentlemen, Spindelegger wouldn't have 100 000 – that's what you can put up with: Plus families are the next 500 000 immigrants to our country! – demanded that those already here would be about 1.5 million. This claim would have been inadequate. A statement for this circumstance has already been made some time ago by a well - known columnist of the “Kronen Zeitung. ” He has written literally – you know these quotations of course, but you do not follow them; They don't draw the right conclusions –: “Since 1980, the proportion of qualified immigrants in Australia has been 80 percent, in Canada well over 90 percent, in England 75 percent, in the USA 50 percent. Austria, like Germany, brought it only to 10 percent trained immigrants. This means that Austria has to cope with a flow of hundreds of thousands of random remote and non-cultural migrants. This is humanly imposing, but the cost of it is also. In schools there is a significant part of unschoolable youth.” – That’s what the Germans call. I quote: “For the consequences of exploding crime – more police, more prisons, courts – the inmate population has to rise up as well as for widespread social abuse and high unemployment.” Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts and figures that one has to deal with. And as far as the Schubhaftzentrum Forderenberg, which you want to set us up in the Styria, is concerned: For 220 displaced asylum seekers, i.e. people who are wrongfully in Austria, €20 million will be spent for a four-star wellness hotel. In addition, we say that these €20 million would be better invested if police officers were to be added to the To provide service and thus increase the safety of the Styrian and Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you're planning on with Vorderenberg is an irresponsible waste of money, is a provocation for young families who are poorly accommodated and who have to watch how prisoners, for example in Leobens, but also for those in detention are better accommodated. Take an example of the French Prime Minister! [[Abg. Amon: He is President, not Prime Minister!]] We liberals have been calling for an absolute immigration stop for months, as long as not all who are here and have not yet integrated are really integrated.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10845	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10866	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Ladies and gentlemen – also on the gallery and in front of the screens! It is amazing how much Styria election takes place in a so-called current European hour of the House, and that is very unfortunate. I am pleased that the EIA has opted for asylum and migration policy at European level, although there would have been other issues from the EIA view that we could discuss today, such as nuclear policy. This was important enough for the ÖVP for its club clause, which recently took place. We all in the House must already ask ourselves how seriously a alleged ÖVP anti-atomic policy is to be taken, when, at the same time, the head of the Ex-Partite, Ex-Bundeskanzler and Nor-ÖVP member Wolfgang Schüssel stands in the soldier of one of the largest nuclear companies in Germany, namely, RWE. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How credible can the anti-atomic policy of an ÖVP foreign minister be, how credible can the policy of an ÖVP agriculture minister be if, at the same time, the head of the party is in the soldier of an atomic group? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Back to the topic of asylum and migration policy at European level. To date, we have hardly heard anything from the European level, and there are indeed problems at European level. Indeed, all 27 EU countries, as well as the EU, must take joint action to address problems that exist and challenges. There was a great deal of mood here with the claim that asylum seekers would storm the EU, yes Europe in general. Ladies and gentlemen, a few facts: Only 14 per cent of those seeking protection worldwide enter the EU and seek asylum in the EU. 14 percent! That is, over 80 percent of refugees stay in crisis regions, mostly stay in countries from which they have fled, or flee to neighbouring countries. One of the poorest countries in the world, Pakistan, has been home to 1.5 million refugees for years. 1.5 million! Iran, which is neither a rule of law nor a wealthy state, has nearly a million refugees to accommodate. – So much to fear and claim that asylum seekers would surround Europe, asylum seekers would be overrun by Europeans. I would like to stress: As long as we have 27 different asylum systems in 27 EU countries, it will not be possible to make a common European refugee policy, a common human rights policy. And as long as it is that an Ethiopian refugee in Sweden can assume with 80 percent certainty that he gets asylum, while in Greece this probability decreases to zero percent – 80 percent in Sweden, zero percent in Greece! – we lie in our own pocket when we criticize the fact that refugees continue to move within the EU! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not create uniform standards, it will continue to be such that refugees will try to get to those EU countries where they have better reception conditions and, above all, greater opportunities to get asylum. They have all read about the sad case of the unaccompanied Afghan minor, who with all 16 years after an Odyssey through different EU Countries, such as Italy, Austria, Sweden, then moved back to Austria, after a suicide attempt died. Today it has been found that this young man at the age of 15 in Tyrol has tried to make an asylum application that has not been accepted, instead an immediate ban on him has been issued immediately. These are also the people who, in our discussions, are being put here by some of our colleagues in the House as a criminal, where it is then said that he must have been doing something, because he has been banned from staying. These are the fates! And in order to finally meet these fates, to be human, we need a common European asylum and migration policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mrs Minister, I call on you – this is my last sentence – to finally stop the blockade policy on asylum and migration at EU level and to work on constructive solutions and good harmonisation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10961	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e10982	Mr President. High house! Mr Schützenhofer must have devastating opinion polls. Every black person who comes out here must say “Schützhofer” at least five times. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Thank you for saying it too!]] Yes, I wanted to tell you something too, Mrs. Maria "Schützenhofer". [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have to play your game now, unfortunately, after Mr Werner spoke about the miracle of fighting crime in Styria, by Mr Schützenhofer. For the fact that crime has fallen in this way, Sagittariuss are responsible. Please, Mr Werner “Schützenhofer” if Mr Hermann Schützenhofer does not become a thief himself, then I must say he has nothing to do with the crime in Styria at all, nothing at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Amon.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is still the task of the police and the security executive on the investigation side and the perpetrators on the culprit's side. If Mr Schüttenhofer does not become a criminal himself, he has nothing to do with the development of crime in Styria. [[Abg. Amon: Yes!]] No, not at all. Yes, yes, yes, right, exactly, the colleague Gabriele “Schützenhofer”, born Tamandl, has said yes, how the Enlightenment Rate has increased and that crime in the Styria has fallen so sensationally, all over the country. However, Mrs. Gabriele “Schützenhofer” has forgotten to say that ministers’ handbags have fallen by 100 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, this should also be mentioned. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister is now taking care of the meat hacker in her neighborhood, which she wants to avoid because of noise and smell harassment. – So much about economic kindness. Yes, if a few blacks want to come out now – I say prophylactically already ten times “Schützhofer” – then you can save yourself that. Maybe he'll still win the election. I do not think that this can be the real reason for today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is really too serious to be ‘protective’. The only really political statement made by the Federal Minister in her dedicated contribution to the debate was that she made it – I quote it literally once again for all those who have not noticed it – to enforce the applicant's obligation to be present in the asylum process. We now need a current hour of Europe to do this. Mrs. Federal Minister, you said it, I wrote it. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] compulsory attendance in the asylum process – the great achievement of the Federal Minister from Upper Austria, who will probably have to emigrate to Styria soon, because the meat hacker is building next to her. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Aha, good. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, if this is all you have done, I would recommend: Think about it with just as much commitment as you have spoken here, whether it would not have failed ten times and, above all, more effective, for anyone who does not take part in his own asylum procedure, simply and simply create the legal presumption that he has withdrawn his application! Because, ladies and gentlemen, this applies to Austrians. If an Austrian makes a request for social assistance or wants to have a rent grant and does not participate in the proceedings, the application shall be deemed withdrawn! If an asylumist makes an asylum application, but is no longer there and is no longer involved, then the asylum procedure will nevertheless be carried out, and even then, if, like the Zogaj family, the whole Republic is fooled. It is still not considered to be withdrawn, but it is even transferred to the square. You know, that would have been something. The Austrians are not really impressed by the obligation to attend. What does an Austrian have of it if the asylumers come in and then are to be present during the procedure? What's he got of it? - Nothing! By the way, not in Styria either, Mr Werner „Schützenhofer“! Rather, you should finally proceed to the fact that a request from someone who does not represent his application to that State itself and does not even find it worth the effort to be here during the application procedure is simply and simply deemed withdrawn. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, how quickly the discharge rates would rise? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What is right and cheap for the Austrian is far from right and cheap for you for the Lord and the Lady of the Asylum, but at the expense of the Austrians it is still not right and cheap. I wanted to give you today, Mr Amon, unfortunately you have missed in the last EU subcommittee – the example of how miserable the Austrian People's Party – which is much more important to the SPÖ – is when it comes to European templates. There will be a presentation of the Stockholm Programme by the Council of the EU, which means immigration and migration, since it will open up, and even social benefits will have to be available to this group of people in the future. The Federal Ministry of the Interior at least says that it costs a lot, the Social Ministry has said, it costs nothing. That's where you disagreed with each other. But only if you present the opinion of the Federal Chamber of Labour – which no social democrat has spoken of today, nor Otto “Thanks” Pendl – then you have to see that in Brussels you can only say no more and only use this one word there, but you do not have the mumm to do so. Play So you are not here the great, strong aunt of asylum policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11098	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11119	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the end of this Europe-Asyl debate, I would like to say that this European policy, which has also supported our federal government in recent decades, has actually been condemned to failure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Proposity!]] We must look at European integration policy only since the 1950s, away from Schuman and Monnet, where the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community, that is, economic cooperation, served as the basis for a peace project, namely Europe. In 1992, the Maastricht Treaties brought Europe's political dimension to a breakthrough and the intention to make Europe a state from sovereign nation states and Fatherlands. This is a mistake in this European policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are discussing this missing asylum and immigration policy today, it is only the tip of the iceberg where we see what is going on in Europe. On the other hand, we still have this Europe of corporations, where the people who are at the centre of the political interest are no longer the people, but corporations, institutions, so that Europe becomes a soft mass, so that the population becomes a soft mass, which can be guided by what it needs. This is not the Europe that we liberals originally introduced ourselves. This Europe will continue to fail in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we look at the fact that, for example, 80 percent of asylum seekers in Switzerland do not receive asylum, but only 20 percent, while in Austria 80 percent of asylum seekers are admitted, then we see that this European policy, this asylum policy, has failed, ladies and gentlemen. Read in the “profile”! Peter Michael Lingens says that disorderly and unbridled immigration puts our social systems more than money in the cash registers of our social and pension systems. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian government, turn around, leave this mistake! Turn around so that our children can also grow up in a free Austria in the future, but not in an Austria that has been preoccupied by European integration! Ladies and gentlemen of the red-black government! Turn around and leave the way of European politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11176	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:54:28]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11199	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11421	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 6382/J by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning the suffrage and breach of the constitution by the Federal Government before the entry into the agenda. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 6004/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11444	I also say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 6004/AB of Question No 6244/J by honourable Members Mag. Mr Brunner, colleagues, on the protection of the Immission Limits for the Protection of Health by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11465	In order to be able to negotiate items 13 to 17 of the agenda, it is necessary to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of committee reports. Points 13 to 17 are the reports of the Immunities Committee on the Request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of the Deputies to the National Council of Deputies Dr. Peter Pilz(890 of the Supplements), on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna Neustadt for approval of the administrative persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strache(891), on the request by the Central Prosecution for the persecution of corruption for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Stefan Petzner(892 of the Supplements), on the request by the State Prosecutor Graz for approval of the official persecution of the Member to the National Council Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann(893 of the Supplements) and on the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the delegates to the National Council Dr Gabriela Moser(894 of the Supplements). [[Abg. Grosz: When you lock up the whole plenary session?- Oh, my God!]] I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11510	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3 of the agenda be summarized. No objections are raised. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11536	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 “Vienna hours” was agreed. There are the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 98 minutes, FPÖ 88 minutes, Green 77 minutes and BZÖ 74 minutes. I would also suggest that the speaking time of each Member should be limited to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you agree with this proposal on the Rules of Procedure, I would ask for a sign on this point. – That is unanimously decided. [[11:57:48]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (871, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Civil Service Act 1986 (ZDG-Novelle 2010) (885 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 948/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, on the reduction of ordinary civil service to six months (886, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 984/A by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Civil Service Act 1986 (ZDG) (887 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11604	We come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vilimsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11631	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the Federal Law which amends the Civil Service Act 1986 in the form of an amendment to the debate and decision-making process. And that, I think, is quite interesting and also a reason for keeping short, because it is the concentrated expression of what you have done in recent months. I can remember: The final meeting of the National Council was in July, then was the end of the meeting, and this is the first regular meeting in autumn. What you have done is not the big throw in the field of security policy, defence policy, university policy, social policy or economic policy – everywhere, zero! – but what you have accomplished is a minimum novice of the Civil Service Act. I also understand those who criticize the free time as a holiday for parliamentarians. To this end, you come to look at your performance, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, in view of this mini novelle. This is actually a shocking expression of your complete inactivity in those things you should do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at the whole thing in terms of content, material. This novel has two main thrusts. The first point is that people who have served civil service are allowed to enter the police service. In principle, one can discuss such a thing. Someone can take the conscientious examination before an authority and say that he cannot provide the service to the weapon and therefore goes to civil service, because we still have a military duty and no free decision. If one had set up a scheme which provides that those persons who did not serve in the service should be allowed to carry out this military service to a sufficient extent to ensure that they could carry out the service of the weapon as police officers in order to protect others and themselves, then it would be all right. However, this is not happening. It is established by the way of the regulation that any ministry – domestic, judicial or national defence – can independently assess how long the reclaiming military service actually has to last. I mean, that's a completely wrong way, because someone who has once publicly said and said to the Republic that he can't provide the service to the weapon, maybe later, if he's a police officer, he'll have some kind of problems when he needs to use the weapon to protect others or maybe to protect himself. Then maybe he'll be back in this conflict of conscience. This is a more than far-reaching arrangement that you have made. The second, which is really absurd, is the rule that civil servants who have just carried out this verification of conscience cannot carry out the service of the weapon can obtain arms documents. One hears – I have not received a confirmation for this – that someone from the area of high EIA politicians wants to have the hunting license, but has stupidly done civil service. Maybe that's the cause? I can't understand why one does something like this, why people who have publicly demonstrated that they can't provide the service to the weapon later have a document on arms law – be it as sportsmen, whether it's to protect themselves or to be a hunter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the wrong way. But it's also the only thing you've done in the last three months. Shame for what you have not done! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11691	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11713	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Civil service has been a success story in Austria in recent years. More than 13,000 young men each year opt for this service, which is being performed for the entire population, to be said. They are at the service of society, whether in the Red Cross, the Samaritan League, hospitals and nursing homes, in the aid of life, in the fire brigade or even in agriculture, when a farmer or a farmer dies and an emergency occurs. That is, our social and health system, even our entire society, would suffer very much if it were not civil service in this form. However, it is also necessary to develop civil service further. We have to go over time, and since the Civil Service Reform Commission in 2004/2005, we have decided here in the House two larger novelties with a very broad majority. I recall the novelle immediately after completion of the discussions of the Reform Commission, whose essential point was that civil service was reduced from twelve months to nine months and, at the same time, from eight months to six months. In 2008, we created financial equality in basic remuneration in civil service, which was certainly a very good, important and necessary measure in the interests of civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is another, in my opinion, very positive change to the Civil Service Act. What are the most important content? – It has already been mentioned that the way to the police or to the judicial guard is now also possible for former civil servants. ==References====External links== Year of life may be requested to delete the civil service obligation. However, a necessary basic military training needs to be completed for the police service. The responsibility lies with the Ministry concerned in the way of the regulation. In the future, there will also be exceptions to the 15-year ban on arms, especially for hunters, sportsmen and traditional defenders. These are listed taxatatively in the law. Why this relief for former civilians? – Because there has been a desire for former civil servants to make these ways possible for years by sports clubs, traditional associations and also by the hunting associations. Why? Is that justifiable? – The civil servant rejects the force of weapons against humans, but not against targets and animals. That is why we are also saying yes to this point. It will also allow access to kindergartens and integration facilities. The existing organisations continue to receive their quotas. – It is important to say that. Administrative simplification is also being carried out, especially with accelerations for the Civil Service Agency – more skills, a much simpler and faster performance. For civil servants there are also two days of special holidays for looking for a job. It is important that, after this government service, the way back to the labour market is also made possible. There is also a right to exemption from examination so that the professional path is not interrupted. But even if there is immediate redundancies for disciplinary reasons, clearer rules are created. If a civil servant refuses to perform the service, or if there are ever greater problems, the layoffs in the working world are the same, a civil servant can now immediately be released from service. There will also be restrictions in the event of maltreatment. That's what we're standing for. In this area, civil servants should not be able to juggle. This is also the way we live up to the desire of the organizations. Two more thoughts on the Greens' requests, which are indeed being negotiated: The reduction to six months is an old story. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, talk to the civil servants themselves! They do not find 10 percent who want civil service to last shorter than nine months. I have been working at the Red Cross for over 15 years and have met many civil servants during this time. One has never mentioned to me that these nine months would be too long for him. We also need them for the organizations. For example, when it comes to rescue and sick transport, it would no longer be useful. If civil service were to last only six months, then these institutions could no longer take civilian servants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windbüchler-Sauschill.]] We don't want to. We stand for civil service and need this important institution in future for our functioning social and health system. We do not believe that the declaration of conscience can be abolished for constitutional reasons. Civil service is military service, and we need both systems. That's what we're talking about. We need the presence service, and we need civil service. The question of the abolition of compulsory military service and the introduction of a compulsory social service is also constantly being put into the room. Ladies and gentlemen, read the Human Rights Convention! Introducing a kind of forced service is not allowed. That's why we confess to both. Finally, I should like to express my sincere thanks to our Lady Federal Minister for having made such progress on this novelle. This novel is forward-looking and forward-looking for civil servants and organisations. I would like to thank the staff in the Ministry of the Interior, the administration, in particular the Civil Service Agency, the colleagues here in the House who will agree, and, last but not least, all civil servants who are at the service of the people in service today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11785	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11806	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let's call the child by name. [[Abg. Pendl: That's always good!]] It is time-theft – time-theft in young, Austrian life, in men who have to perform the forced service – and, Mr. Wöginger, there is the forced service – the military service or the military service. It is time theft in an innovative, mobile world, in a mobile European Union in which the forced service has no authority or justification. No young person has the obligation to serve the weapon or not the weapon. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it seems a bit strange to let go of the public completely outside, not to think of a broad discussion, to start a discourse on it, to really abolish the general obligation to do military service and thus also civil service. Take an example of Germany, where, of course, a discussion on the suspension or abolition of the general military obligation has also been initiated for reasons of consolidation, but also from the certainty that it is time theft for young men. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The forced service for men in the European Union is obsolete. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more walls. It no longer needs traditional military service and therefore military service. The trend in Europe is quite clear and goes in a direction – that is, away from this issue, away from this service. There are a lot of external attacks, there is a media public that tends quite clearly in this direction. The big question is: What does it need to do with these attacks, to make all that a majority of the Austrian people understandably think is completely absurd and explains to really bring this discourse here? It is still an dishonest debate, because military service and therefore civil service will have to be the central questions for further steps in the development of the Austrian federal army, but also for a social system dependent on 13,000 civilian servants. [[Abg. Pendl: I think so too!]] As long as there is civil service – 13 000 civilians per year – there is also a need for equal treatment with the ministers. This novelle – to return to the subject – does not bring it at all. Nor does it provide for this, but there is a further inequality of civil servants and ministers. The reduction of ordinary civil service to six months – how simple it would be! At the age of six months, he would have been in line with military service and thus there would be no inequality of treatment. The removal of the clause of conscience – a free choice for young people is no longer a question that must exist! Civil servants who have decided against the service of the gun in the federal army should also have the right to go to the police. There is also no reason not to accept this opportunity. Young people have learned social skills in civil service. How important it would be to the police! First of all, I believe that basic military training for men who have made civil service is the wrong way and second inequal treatment per se, because women do not need basic military training when they go to the police, but civil servants already. In summary, civil servants in Austria are still second-class people, men second-class. [[Abg. Riepl: Men second class!]] This requires a further and honest debate and budgetary security of the social system instead of the social reduction announced by the government. There is a need for disaster protection, which is placed on firm civilian legs, and a comprehensive and legally protected volunteer for women and men who would like to work in the social system. So: Get away with the scavengers to an honest discussion, with the time theft and away with the general obligation of military!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11879	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11915	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleagues, I would be really pleased if we discussed this important question in our Republic with everything serious, all honesty and all transparency. I'm not only wondering about your statements here, but also about what I'm taking away the media. It's just that way out of the belly, out of the emotion. Get away with the military duty! I'll invite you to think. Interestingly, we have already had the situation at the current hour – and we actually have it permanently – that the same factions, which constantly demand that they be saved, demand more resources for the next points. I have the impression that you're no longer willing to judge the whole thing. If I look at the Austrian federal constitution – I have already said it at another item on the agenda today – I think I can see a clear commitment to it, but also a commitment to a proper military obligation. According to Article 4 of the Convention on Human Rights, we simply have compulsory military service and compulsory military service; otherwise there is no forced service – that is the point! We know from experts that a professional force – no matter what it is set up – is causing huge costs. You can say that it costs twice, depending on how big you want to put it up. In this Republic we have many questions to deal with for the Austrians, and a superfluous savings discussion – with all understanding for consolidation –; you only have demands everywhere. I would be most fortunate if we had proper employment conditions throughout the social and health sectors, people all deserved well and we did not need civilians in this area. But then someone should tell me how we should discuss this, whether we are able and willing to negotiate it honestly and finally come to a conclusion, or whether we are only addressing this at Sunday's speeches or here and there, because country elections are on the doorstep, and making such flat-rate demands. I'm telling you, that's why you're insecure all the groups. I think we should be grateful to the soldiers, to the ministers and to the civil servants, for they are doing great things for the people of our home country, and they are not unabated. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. New builder.]] Like so many in life, this novel is a compromise – a compromise that has been discussed and negotiated at all levels, with all representatives of interest, with the support organisations, with politics. Of course, you can take a point everywhere and say that I don't like it, and the next one says I don't like it there, and the next one says I don't like that. But that means standstill, dear friends and friends. We all know that. [[Abg. New builder: But you could have done that better!]] If we want and want to move, we can only negotiate with everyone concerned and see that we come to a solution. I think that in this situation – one can stand to do as one wants – it is a good compromise to which all parties have finally come to know each other. I invite you all to give your consent. It's an improvement, that's not a question at all. I know you can discuss everything. If anyone never wanted a gun, why would he want to go to the hunting club, to the shooter club or to the police? – You can argue all of this. I just think a lot of things have changed. Society has changed, people have changed. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not lose sight of the following: We have responsibility not only for the Republic, but also for the people of this Republic. I would urgently invite you to hold an honest, comprehensible, transparent discussion and then make a decision before saying that you want to abolish the obligation to do so. I also invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11961	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e11984	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Pendl said something right: Yes, let us make ourselves and have an honest discussion! To be honest, it would be to abolish the obligation to do so, as we have long called for from the BZÖ, and to introduce a volunteer army. Then the whole thing is done and we can save these agenda items 1 to 3. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. New builder: stupid! Complete nonsense!]] That's just the honest variant. You don't have to take a conscience test, which is no longer in modern times. It's no longer contemporary. Think of our youth and look to the future and what needs people have! We know exactly how difficult it is. Today, as a young person, when you have completed an education, you have to push into the federal army somewhere. This leads to problems. This can be solved differently; today it is no longer necessary the same thing that used to be necessary. We should keep thinking about the future, the young people and their needs. We need well-trained people and we can't order a career neck from the state. That is why this law-making work – as it really must be described – is quite clear to reject, because this regulation does not make it clear again whether these people can go to the police or not. I'm telling you what it's all about, ladies and gentlemen. It's very easy: We have a free society, free citizens, let us decide it freely! We from BZÖ are for as much freedom as possible, for free decision. That's what we want! If women in the police don't need training with the federal army at the moment in order to be able to perform their duties there, I wonder why it is prescribed for the boys. Why do you have to dictate a conscience test? These are things that don't belong to that. Let us make an honest variant: a voluntary civil service with a corresponding incentive for people to choose for them by themselves, and a voluntary army with corresponding incentives. That would be the most reasonable and honest way, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to stress the focus on the area of police; I have already mentioned this issue in the committee on another item on the agenda, but unfortunately we do not have it on the agenda today, but in the previous debate we have also discussed this issue. Name: We have an acute personnel distress with the police. We must not be fooled by figures and statistics. We have to look into the whole thing. Today, due to social development, we have a lot of carnations at the police – both in men and, of course, in women. These people cannot be used for the normal service because in these cases appropriate protection mechanisms are installed. It is therefore necessary to act through an increase in staff. I wonder, Where is the increase in staff required by the border opening due to the membership of Austria to the Schengen area? Nothing was re-occupied. Although customs guards were integrated into the police, they were retired over time. The crux on the matter is as it shows an example from Vorarlberg: There are former customs guards sitting on the Swiss border, stamping on a VAT form, and that is their whole task there. That means heating people so to speak. There you can put someone out of the mail. That would be a way to employ people from the post at the police. But the way you handle it now, it doesn't make sense. I don't know a police department where you say a poster can be used as a full police officer. Make people! You have the opportunity. And see that the executive will be strengthened! Go to the new requirements! We know that the opening of borders has mistakenly increased the flexibility of foreigners who pass through us and commit crimes. The executive must also be flexible. There must be investment and something really must be created, and this can be reasonably saved in other areas. Now I come to a problem which also belongs to the subject, namely: 2 500 police officers were injured last year, 2009. It's an insanity to think that every tenth police officer has been injured in the service. There are no legal regulations to ensure that police officers are better protected. I also call on the judicial system to act accordingly or to condemn it accordingly. It can't be a cavalier's crime if you attack a police officer representing the state. We need to get through this, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to give you this call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12043	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12064	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Everything the opposition has now demanded here would cost much more money, but would be far less humanity in our society. That's how you have to see it! You already have to stick to the truth: More than 13 000 civilians have made an important contribution last year to the functioning of our social system and our health system. We see, therefore, that civil service is an important and important pillar in our social and health sectors. Therefore, civil service is indeed necessary. This novel is a truly wonderful development, taking into account, on the one hand, in the field of civil service, in the case of civil servants, certain needs which today require our social image and, on the other hand, that it is also important for civil service organisations to be able to carry out their work accordingly during the time they have available to civil servants. On the one hand – this has already been addressed – the civil servant is given the opportunity to enter the public service. It may, for this purpose, be completed until the 28th century. Year of life cancelled his civil service vow he made. Within 12 months, he must review the military training required for the executive sector or check that he meets all the requirements for the executive service within 12 months. This is then held modestly. That is, I think, a really important development. On the other hand, this innovation ensures that abuse can be stopped so that abuses of civilian servants can react more quickly. I believe that this is also a really important step forward. development is, and that is why I invite all of you to agree to this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12109	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12131	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, it is true that civil service is an important instrument in our social system that civil servants make a valuable contribution to this. But the current Civil Service Law Novelle – and I have to contradict Mr Kößl – is truly not a good compromise in this matter, because it allows former civil servants access to an executive profession, not only to the police, but also to justice and in some way even to the federal army, without requiring retroactive and binding basic training. While it is noted that, on the basis of the regulation, the individual ministries can adopt directives here and request subsequent training, this is done, as has been said, through a regulation. So it's in the It is therefore not a uniform and equal training for all. There are discretionary spaces that the ministry can exploit, and therefore it is not fair and not uniform. This new law negotiator has negotiated a minister of defence who has already demonstrated in the past that his heart beats for many things, but truly not for the Austrian federal army, and that, because he himself was civil servants, in this novel more represented the interests of civil service or civil servant than that of the members of the Austrian federal army. Although he said that he opposed a professional army for cost reasons in principle, he made access to the present service as difficult as possible with this regulation. I am already wondering what options remain for the Austrian Federal Army for the future and what strategies are reserved for our Austrian federal army by the Ministry of Defence in the future. On the other hand, we have the Minister of the Interior, who obviously no longer believes in her commitment to the appointment and training of personnel and is obviously willing to recruit civilians as police officers and police officers in the future. It obviously leaves this snow open so that it can fulfill its promises regarding more police and more staff at the executive. I am quite right to Mr Hagen when he says that the staff problem with the police must be solved in a different way than through this Civil Service Law Novelle, with which civil servants can still be opened the door to the police by means of a quick course. This cannot be the right way to go in Austrian security policy. It is actually a frightening inventory of the Austrian security and defence policy, which this Federal Government shows in this Civil Service Act-Novelle. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12171	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12194	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If my predecessor has actually left almost no good hair on this new law and if the colleagues of BZÖ and FPÖ cannot befriended at all with this Civil Service Law Novelle, then I am wondering and must say: You obviously have a bit of a mess, not to say the chaos, because you were there when you were in Salzburg's Landtag – I have the related document here – on 13 November. January 2010 has unanimously decided that the antiquated civil service law should be modernised in the sense that the Federal Minister or the negotiators have now presented it to us. [[Call the FPÖ:But not so!]] You obviously ignore this now, or you are not in contact with your delegates in the federal states. It could be. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Again: But not so!]] I'm very glad that this novel is now here. And do you know why I'm so happy? – Because, in my opinion, the civil service law in force so far is overshadowed by the illegality of equality, if I may say so. In my opinion, it has so far been unheard of. That now Article 5(5) comes out of the Civil Service Act or that there is an addition, I am glad about that. On the other hand, the Civil Service Act has more than restricted the possibilities of professional choice, the life plan for people. It is not at all clear why people who have performed civil service – and one agrees that this is a truly valuable and important task for our society – should not have the opportunity to become a police officer, that they do not have the opportunity to become a judicial guard official, et cetera. Why not?, I ask you. [[Abg. Herbert: For reasons of conscience!]] We have a strict arms law, we have a strict arms use law, and there is no police officer – I assume – offensively on the pursuit of crime with drawn weapon. This is about emergency and emergency action when the weapon is used to protect the population. It is very necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that, after the first step, namely the abolition of the Commission's examination of conscience, the next one is followed by the innovation of this law as we do, and that is what it is now. I would like to mention another point, which is also an important step, even if it has been laughed here. In an incident, Mr Herbert Scheibnerda said: It will not be so important that civil servants can now also serve in kindergartens. I think it is a very important measure that the young children are personally confronted with fathers, men, in the best sense of the word, that they also meet, so to speak, the second half of humanity as a caretaker. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Get to know soldiers!]] This is necessary and important for both. On the other hand, when we speak of equality, of common care, of all possibilities in this context, it is also a matter of distributing obligations and rights accordingly. I think it does very well for civil servants and increases the spectrum if civil service can also be done in kindergartens or in integration associations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy about these new laws and I agree with them enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12271	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12292	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to replicate a little on some speeches here. I can only encourage colleagues Herbert to agree to this new law, because on the basis of the regulations, the Ministry of the Interior will regulate that those who have completed a civil service will also be able to experience a necessary basic military training through basic training 1 and basic training 2 and will therefore also be able to carry out the police service without delay. - That's one. The other thing is: We do not need to hold a military debate here, because thanks to God, the government parties agree that there will also be a military obligation in the future. [[Abg. Herbert: Will we see!]] However, I would also like to say something about the comments made by Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill and Mr Hagen: The replacement of military service or the suspension of military service would already mean that on the other hand, the military service, the civil service, would be in great distress or the social support organizations would be in great distress, and therefore I think that if you think in a state-bearing way, you cannot demand this from today on to tomorrow. It is not possible, as the Greens call for, to make a popular decision. There are up-to-date surveys that prove and show that 67 percent of Austrians want to stick to the obligation to serve the general public, and therefore it is also good that we stick to it. But I would also like to stress one thing: If you, Mrs Windbühler, speak of time theft in young people, especially in young men, of course, then I really do not understand this argument. They refer to the obligation to the general public, the personal service for the general public in the form of the basic defence service or in the form of the military service as a time-theft. I mean, if we – and this discussion the ÖVP – are rethinking the military duty that there can then be added value for the young men in both things: a military service-new as well as social service within the framework of civil service. I claim that in both areas there is not only an added value for society in general, but also an added value for the young man personally. I therefore do not see injustices. I mean, we now have the opportunity to eliminate certain injustices by deciding on these novelties here, so that certain types of occupations are also open to civil servants. We can further develop everything else in a later dialogue on the military obligation-new, which the ÖVP is now beginning to discuss.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12327	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12350	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that, within the framework of this Civil Service Law Novelle, we should not now discuss the abolition of compulsory military service. There is a very open discussion about this; my previous speaker has already mentioned it. There is also the debate on the security strategy-new or defence strategy-new launched by Minister of Defense Norbert Darabos. And there are also many reasons that motivate many to discuss the abolition of military service. However, there are also many arguments that justify that our system, as it is currently being lived in the Second Republic, has its authority and is important. I am thinking, for example, of the disaster protection which Mr Hagen mentioned here. For example, this would be an area that could no longer be guaranteed, and none of us could account for it. In my view, this Civil Service Law Novelle is particularly important and successful because it brings an end to the injustices between the substitutes and the military. Young men now have the opportunity to decide freely whether they want to do the civil service or the service to the federal army, without thereby – we have already heard this today – blocking the respective future career path, for example, the door to the executive, which, of course, makes me particularly happy as a police officer. But the door to the customs guard, the judicial guard or the federal army is also open to the civilians. For me, this actually means additional potential for the above-mentioned professional groups. I see this as a huge opportunity, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Darabos has already responded in the field of defence, which is excellent and professional, by responding with a specific contact point. I would like to congratulate him on that. Perhaps we can also introduce this in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. I also take note of the point made by my previous speaker that it is intended to cover the required military training in the framework of basic training, which has also been possible for many of those who have previously completed basic police training. A very important argument is the question of conscience. We've already discussed this. In the executive service, it is not about serving exclusively with the weapon in the foreground, but about a lot of social policy aspects – conflict management, conciliation acts, and assistance in many cases. And here, I believe, those who have done civil service will also be excellent colleagues in the future who can cope with this too. In general, from my point of view, it is a successful novel. Of course, the criticism points should also be taken seriously. In the end, however, we should point out that a paradigm change has taken place here, which is to be welcomed. In this sense, I thank you too.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12394	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12417	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If we are talking about “compulsory service” here today, I must be quite clear about this: We have a military service, which serves internal and external security, and we have a civil service that serves social security in that country. And at the moment, one third of the civil service is doing and two thirds of the military service is doing their duty. Personally, I still have a problem with 19 percent of those who do not serve society at all. [[Call the FPÖ: They'll be ministers then!]] – I think that you should put on the lever and think about taking everyone into the same responsibility, into the same duty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that the social service – despite its duration of nine months – is in progress and young people choose to do so. And I think we can be glad that in this way we bring social competence into our society. The fact is that we also need a few novels in military service. If you compare this: The Minister of the Interior makes novels, like civil service to the challenges and changes in society. I think it was urgently needed in military service. If you take these new laws – we have already decided here a few civil service law novels – then you can see that they carry the handwriting of practice. I received nine proposals from the Red Cross of Tyrol about a three-quarters of a year ago to improve civil service, and I am already grateful for this and I am glad that eight of these proposals can be implemented to a large extent. There is no such possibility only in the case of a fee or in the case of housing aid, because that is in line with the military service. However, all other points have been implemented, such as improvement in flat-rate remuneration and fees, flexibility in allocations, process acceleration and adjustment of chain health care days. In other words, there are always a few in civil service who, of course, also use the system, who have saved themselves through chain sickening days over the rounds. And that's what's going on. And a clear message is also in this paper: The Red Cross does not actually want to shorten the civil service from nine to six months. In total, there are 260 hours of training, and these 260 hours of training, I think, are necessary in order to then provide the service. And many of these civilians are subsequently volunteered at the Red Cross and are taken over professionally. I think it is very important that there is a basic education and that we have people who work and serve in the social field. All in all, thank you very much for this novel. It is practical, practical and contributes to increasing social security in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12455	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12476	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Three areas will be completed and dealt with with with with with by the novel of the Civil Service Act to be decided here today. First: Today's decision will fulfill another promise contained in the government programme between SPÖ and ÖVP. Secondly, the presentation for the first time creates additional new applications for military service performance. Thirdly, it fixes the known shortcomings of the current Civil Service Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Civil service has been a success model since its introduction in 1975 – a history starting with a few hundred and almost 14 000 in 2009, providing Austrian civil service: rescue service, fire brigade, hospitals, senior homes, day centers for people with special needs or disaster services. Simply say: 365 days a year serving our society. For the past 35 years, Wehrresatzdienst has been providing high-performance services for non-profit institutions, thus sustaining our social system. Today's decision opens up a number of areas, such as: If a young person at the age of 17 had to make a decision between military service and military service, he could later opt for a new system. In particular, this novel is about those areas where the choice of profession has not been possible so far, such as the police security service, justice – which has already been addressed – as well as servants of the legal service at the Federal Asyl Office, as well as soldiers in international peacekeeping. Here it is very important to get rid of this novelle. As mayor of the municipality of Untersiebenbrunn and regional politician, I am particularly concerned about the safe supply of blue light organizations. Especially in this area, especially in the workers-samariter gang, in the Red Cross, in the fire brigade, but also in hospitals and senior homes, the civil servants who do excellent work there are very important. I would like to thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, some extensions are now being made: Civil servants may also be involved in childcare, but also in integration projects. On the other hand, it is also ensured that the head of state can carry out the recognition of new facilities only taking into account the existing facilities. There are still certain savings here. I would just like to mention three briefly: Significant procedural acceleration/simplification of this law, ensuring that disciplinary measures can and also take place, and, thirdly, a very important area for the Ministry of the Interior, saving at least €270 000, which we very much need for the interior resort. I'm looking for your support in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12540	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12562	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing today the amendment of the Civil Service Act 1986 and also decide on it, I would nevertheless like to make a commitment by the ÖVP to comprehensive national defence, to the federal army. And to begin with the obligation of military service. I think it's important that we stress that too. However: Time brings change, and the military service, says civil service, has long become an important part of our community. While earlier, in fact, the only motivation to provide civil service was that one did not want to use a weapon for conscience reasons, today there are more and more young people saying in addition: From my personal point of view, I can do even more in civil service for society than I do. I think you should appreciate this valuable work that is actually being done when a young person chooses to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The field of activity is broad: whether it is in hospitals, in the rescue sector, in civil defence or in social and disability assistance. I personally can also tell of many examples where civil servants are also used on farms, where tragic fates are often triggering their use and where they can really be helped. I should also like to thank you very much for this. With this change of law in § 6, we allow civil servants to go to the police, to the judicial guard or to the federal army and make this choice of profession after the corresponding training. As far as § 5 is concerned, it is very important to me that this derogation is now possible. We know that these paragraphs prohibit the possession, acquisition and running of firearms for the duration of 15 years. And now we create the possibility that there can be an exception for hunting, for traditional shooter associations and for sportsmen on request. It is also important to me that an exception is made because of the exhibition of a hunting card and credible hunting practice. This provision is not only in the interests of individuals, but also in the interests of agriculture and forestry from my point of view, because it makes sense for farmers and forestry farmers to exercise the hunting that is already linked to soil and soil. In total, it is a modern law, and I think we should all agree to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12616	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12637	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October 2009, former civil servants and representatives of the Salzburg trade union youth of Mrs. Barbara Prammer handed over a parliamentary petition entitled “Remove the professional ban “Police” for civilians”. – Today’s novel to Civil Service Law is in line with these intentions. But we weren't alone. Salzburger Landtag unanimously adopted a decision on this subject to come to the Austrian Federal Government to eliminate these occupational bans. All the political groups in the Salzburg Landtag agreed. There has also been a unanimous decision of the General Assembly in the Chamber of Workers Salzburg, and numerous civil society institutions, youth organisations, but also the Salzburg Jägerschaft have joined these demands. After we brought in this petition, there were hundreds of letters that have reached us, from those who have made it clear that they want to become a police officer or become a judicial guard. Allow me to quote some: My concern is about the current issue of civil service and police. I too, like many others, am in a situation where I am in front of the closed doors of the police as a former and affluent civilian. - Quote. Next quote: I completed the Matura at the HTL with 20 and, unfortunately, decided on civil service after that, but certainly not for reasons of conscience, but only because the work as a civil servant has given me a better commitment. For years, my great professional wish has been the work as a judicial guard. So far, I always thought that this would be a dream. - Quote. And one, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we should also consider: This has always been possible in Germany. German civilians were able and can become police officers. That is why we welcome this amendment, and I would ask you to agree to this amendment. But allow me a critical comment on how the Austrian administration deals with civil servants. There are criminal proceedings with texts that I cannot accept as chairman of the Data Protection Council and as a Member of Parliament. This is a health report, and then a criminal report was issued because the disease was not reported on the disease. I quote: The disease was only certified with “illness”. A punishment was imposed against this civil servant, and I only hold here, Mrs Federal Minister: This is contrary to the case law of the Administrative Court. Health data shall be sensitive data, the cause of illness shall not be indicated, either by official doctors or by other doctors, but only by certifying the disease. I would ask you to clarify this to the district authorities in a decree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12699	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12735	Mr Maier, what you have now presented was a very, very short presentation. A punishment, a criminal record for sick people in civil service law is very rare, but it is intended for those who do not deal with the entire nine-month civil service through recurring diseases in the host organisation, but simply disappear and put the support organisation in trouble. And that's why the new regulation. She was urgently needed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Jacky Maier wants to help the swindlers! Jacky, you wanted to help the hustlers!]] It is not about the punishment being imposed because the actual illness was not known, but it is about the fact that some of them have passed through long-term illness. Then it was first extended and then interrupted, and with that the game started from the beginning. And that's what we've done now. We quickly interrupt if we believe someone is not civilian. And that's why these new discipline measures were necessary. But I'm saying, Only 3 percent of civil servants use such abusive methods. 97 percent of our civil servants do excellent work on society, and I thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We take a lot of tax money into our hands for this service to society by civil servants. With almost €60 million a year, we sponsor the support organizations that, in addition to the cheap labour force, receive subsidies for taking civilian servants. I think that's valuable, that's not in doubt. We will continue to maintain that. It is precisely those organisations that have spoken out loud when it came to organizing the allocations of civil servants. And those organisations that have the highest rate of funding have notified the greatest need. It was very, very surprising for me, therefore, when precisely these organisations expressed themselves in a reflective way against the community work proposed by Christine Marek. So if they have such a high need in terms of support, with regard to additional assistance, why do they reflectly reject the Community's work of the least-favoured persons who are capable of working? Is it just about money for them? Are they concerned only with the promotions? Or are they also concerned that these services are actually being provided efficiently? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... is the social forced labour!]] The Civil Service Act Novelle now provides a proper legal framework, modernising civil service: faster procedures for faster decisions, clear division of competence, service-oriented civil service agency. But, Mr Maier, there is no tolerance with those undisciplined people who, because of their attitude, behave improperly against patients and the disabled and where it was previously difficult to remove them from civil service. If you cannot act in the institutions, you should not choose civil service. We expect a good performance and have strict rules for that. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] For a modern civil service, which meets the needs of people, it was not a problem for me to take into account the many wishes of those young men who want to perform civil service, but then want to be hunters. Perhaps they had done the hunting test long before the civil service, and because of the civil service they were suddenly unable to carry out the hunt, because we have a 15-year-old ban. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: There's too much hunting anyway!]] There's a possibility in the future. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: There are too many hunters!]] Mr. Mayor, your call “There are too many hunters” I consider to be disrespectful! [[Call the SPÖ:But good!]] The hunting has a good tradition in Austria and is recognized in society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as I am concerned, I do not think that I am justified in expressing my view to the hunters. But it's not just about hunters, it's also about sportsmen, it's about biathletes, it's about the traditional shooters. I do not think that it is justified to separate all of you from civil service. I also do not think it justified that the high social commitment of civil servants to the police service should not be fully usable. If we take up young people for the police, then that third of the male population who has done civil service has been excruciated once. I would also like to give everyone in the population who is interested in the police service the opportunity. That is why I would like to thank you for agreeing to this provision, according to which the professional bans on judicial guard, customs guard, police or other occupations leading weapons will be lifted in the future. Especially important to me as a woman is that we also open civil service to support organisations that care for children. Civil servants have proved themselves perfectly in disabled people, in patients, in old people. It is urgently necessary that we also have male care in the childcare area. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The society does not do well if the children have only one kindergarten, only one folk school teacher, only one primary school teacher and perhaps still a single mother. These children never have the opportunity to be socialized in the male environment. I therefore welcome the fact that in future we will also have civilian servants in childcare facilities. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned those who are entitled to a minimum guarantee. We have also stated in this novel that there can be a data exchange between AMS, unemployed civilian volunteers and the civil service service agency. It should not happen that, just because they are not allocated, young men are unemployed over a longer period of time and therefore the public hand is costing of course. We want to know which civilian officers are reported to the AMS. they will be allocated immediately so that there will be no gaps, so that there will be no gap in civil service activity. They see that we are modernizing civil service, simplifying administration and shortening communication channels, in the sense of society, our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12886	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e12949	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues at the Hohen Haus! Civil service is gladly presented as either- or. However, according to the current legal situation, civil service is a military service, and we have already discussed in many committees that young men who, for whatever reason, have opted for civil service should later also be able to come to the police. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Mr. Vice-President is outraged!]] [[Abg. Newborn: Such an ignorance, Mr. Colleague!]] I think that this law contains many new components that have already been mentioned. I would like to mention two more. On the one hand, the flat-rate compensation for civil servants and civil servants is now taking place at the same time on the 15th of the month. And as a very positive thing, I simply find the creation of the right to an exemption for training or for choice of profession. I am of the same opinion as Mrs Minister that I think it is very positive that civil servants can also work in kindergartens. – Mr Weinzinger, you said earlier that the children finally see what a soldier looks like. Even to you, it should have been said that a civilian does not run around as a soldier. But that can happen. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Shame!]] On the comments by Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill: I have not become very smart from your speech. In the first half sentence you say that civil service is absurd and actually does nothing, but in the second half it is said that the social competence that young men thereby acquire is a very positive one. Then you mentioned that you just don't want to spend this crazy time anymore. But I just wanted to tell you very briefly that you want to have this in the course of a volontariat. Have you ever discussed what a volunteer is? Mrs Soushill, I'm sorry you're leaving now. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill goes towards the exit.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] In contrast to a teaching, the Volontariat is not regulated by law. Volontaires are persons who are active exclusively for the purpose of extending the application of mostly theoretically acquired skills without a work obligation, without remuneration. I can't imagine you trying to go down civil service in this way. I thank the civil servants for doing good, yes, excellent work. The blue light organizations would thank you if you wanted to shorten your time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13024	Mr Hell has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13046	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The priorities of this Civil Service Law Novelle have already been addressed and underlined by my previous speakers. Since the introduction in 1975, if I have raised this correctly, there have already been eleven novels and legislative adjustments in this context. I would like to say once again that civil service is a military service. The right to provide civil service has the right of those who, for reasons of conscience, refuse to use force of arms against people and would therefore be in need of conscience in the performance of military service. In 2009, some 40 000 conscripts faced 13 000 civilians. This number has risen steadily in recent years. This was only possible because of the constant adaptations to the circumstances and the evolution of time. Civil service has become an indispensable pillar of the social and health system in Austria in its 35 years. Its areas of activity and its value to the general public have always grown. Many rescue organizations could no longer offer their service if they did not support civil service Guys. In 2009, around 41.9% of civilians worked in the field of rescue. From my personal experience, I know that the recognition of civilians has increased sharply in recent years. I am not of the opinion of a colleague that civilians are second-class persons. Today civil service in the population finds high acceptance, we know this also from many personal discussions. The use of civil servants goes from the use in the field of rescue, health care to health care. Many civil servants acquire important professional skills, such as theoretical and practical training as a rescue anity. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Civil service plays an important role in the social landscape of Austria. Military service and civil service are important security facilities in this country. I would ask you to agree to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13097	No one has been reported here in the word. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Civil Service Act in 1986, together with the title and receipt in 871 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 886 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 887 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[13:12:35]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Austrian Family Report 1999 to 2009, presented by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth (III-157/883 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13171	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Adjusted voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13201	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The family report for ten years, which has been presented to us, covers 2 763 pages. It was certainly a great effort to bring the report to a final conclusion in this form, but this zero, as I have to say, is not to be accepted by us in this way. Just like this report, you too, Mrs State Secretary, show remote reality and proclaim personal wishful thinking here. Nor are even correct information yet, in some cases even misinformation in it. To call the financial justice a milestone of the red and black government is, I say, a cowardice! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's a groundless naughty thing to call this. For years they have neglected the valorization of family benefits and have not very much recognized the families and their benefits, they have seen them as stepchildren of our society and as a subgroup of the economy. In addition, the annual increases needed by families have been avoided. Furthermore, a savings in health, family, work/social affairs of €234 million will be foreseen in the coming year; this is also foreseen as a budget cut for 2011. The liberal application for the receipt of the 13th. Family aid is called by you. The demands and the wishes of the Austrian families are also besieged by you. And what are you doing? – After the Committee meeting, go to the next day and give the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” an interview, in which you say very well: It must be considered about the abolition of the 13th. Family aid, everything is imaginable, and there is no taboo. Mrs. State Secretary! My question is: How stupid do you think the Austrian population? Do you want to sell everyone for stupid, to say that once, like that? – The presumption here is that the Vienna election campaign is growing a little bit above your head, that you are overemphasized and no longer know what you are saying in the committee and what kind of interview you will give the news. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or are we talking about some kind of political Alzheimer's? [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A real milestone for families, for financial justice among families, is the introduction of the freedom requirement, namely the introduction of a family tax division, ladies and gentlemen! We confess to support the families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The statistics in the family report state that only 10 percent of families actually want to get back into the working and working world. What about the 90 percent who don't want to? – Yes, family tax division; no problem if you address it. [[Abg. Lueger: If the conditions are appropriate...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] What about those who don't want to, that 90 percent? – They are neglected and are obviously 90 percent, which are not worth taking into account here. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense: We reject this family report. It's not progress for the families, it's a step back, a standstill, and we can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13277	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13299	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say to Mr Kitzmüller: This language does not correspond to the dignity of the house! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If this sometimes has to do with men from FPÖ, then we must not imitate women in the Family Committee, what others do. I am really horrified, and in my opinion, Mr President, at least for the expression "political Alzheimer's" would have to give a call for order. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Family and children – and now I refer to the content of the report – or partnership remain the top priority of the areas of life of the Austrians considered to be particularly important. This is a clear statement from the report – it cannot be said that the report is “for the Katz” – and this is also taken into account by Austria’s family policy, the family ministry with State Secretary Christine Marekan. This 5. Austrian family report shows that much has been done in family policy this decade. I would also like to thank all those who have worked on the report. It is not only about the pages, it is also about the content, and there is a lot of knowledge and know-how behind it. This report, of course, shows what has happened, but it also clearly points to the future which measures need to be taken. Thanks to all those who worked on it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would also like to stress once again – and this is said again and again in speeches and press releases – that we are simply in the forefront of family benefits in the European comparison. For example, in order to attract only a few issues that we have done, the tax deductibility for childcare has been introduced or the childcare allowance has been improved. If you look at the statistics now: In the case of dependent child care allowance, it is now up to the 5 300 persons involved, and the number of fathers is also rising here. That means our bill goes up. A very important point is also the formation of partners and parents. Heefor this, €1.3 million was taken into hand, and now at school, in some federal states, parental education vouchers were issued again by the Secretary of State. Other federal states have already introduced this parental education voucher. The mandatory free kindergarten year is also mentioned, which has been given a corresponding education plan to prepare our grandchildren well for school, and it is also to be said that last year the 10,000 additional childcare places have been created. These were just a few examples of what was achieved in the family sector, including, as has already been said, forward-looking developments. An Important The point for family policy is the interaction of the generations. It is a great challenge to ensure that the generation contract does not get into a wrong position. Most of the care is also provided in the family context. Demographic development presents a major challenge in terms of care and health care. Principles of Austria's joint development of the care system are necessary, as nine different orientations do not matter in nine federal states. It is also a matter of ensuring a regulated competition in order to ensure freedom of choice for those affected and caring for. The funding of care needs to be put on new legs, because the communities have to be relieved urgently. It is in the government programme that a care fund is provided. I believe that this is a right and important way, and I expect the competent Federal Minister Hundstorfer to come up with a quick solution in this regard. It is also necessary that light falls into the domestic foster jungle, as I have already said. There is no reliable data throughout Austria. In family policy, our responsibility ranges from the infant to the elderly. If we are talking about the compatibility of work and family, then today it is no longer just talking about how I am dealing with the youngest and the older, but also about how my close older relatives are, because today we are lucky to get older and older. I would therefore like us to continue working together on this report, from its results, to develop measures for the benefit of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13393	I have already initiated the creation of the Stenographical Protocol. We will read the passage, and if, in fact, a call for order is necessary, I will also give it. The next speaker was Mr Ing. Heard to speak. 3 minutes of speaking time are registered. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13417	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Visitors at the gallery! I would like to write a little bit to my colleague Steibl: If you are dealing with the word ‘alzheimer’, it must be noted that the government has often promised something here and then failed to comply with it. So you could actually put Alzheimer's; you have to say that clearly at this point. Now to the current family report: We know that child rates are getting lower and divorce rates are rising. We must be very clear about this. The initiatives on the part of the Freedom Party are well known, but they are largely rejected. We reject – and Anneliese Kitzmüller, our family spokesperson, has already done so – this family report because it is very likely to express things that we do not believe fit the majority opinion. In this context, I must already note that, for example, the alleged family party ÖVP can be pulled through the arena by the left-wing Schickeria in that country. As the left in our country sees family policy, we know: It is tried to divide families. I would like to address the so-called Women's Group, which deals exclusively with better placed families, about career women. This is trying to put up with normal families – I say now – to put their children in cribs in childcare facilities as soon as possible. We must face such developments. [[Abg. May. Musiol: That's just Paranoia!]] [[Abg. May. Brunner: Where do we say that?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Every argument is missing!]] This is, of course, an argument, Mrs Colleague, because this constant cry for the removal of children in childcare facilities is something we cannot win. Or, for example, all these bizarre gender discussions in which genders, male and female, are already being tried to unite, which are already being rejected today... [[Call to SPÖ and Greens: This is completely absurd! - What are you doing?]] – Of course, things are pointing in a certain direction. That this is not, of course, heard in the green and red half of the empire is clear to me. The FPÖ – I come to the point – is of course committed to freedom of choice: Families should be able to choose to care for children from a certain age. That's not supposed to be the big issue. But we also have to make the following clear: We confess to too much more important criteria of a modern family policy by being able to spend as much time as possible and as long as possible for their own children, especially in line with the desire of mothers and fathers. It also says that the child benefit variant is the most frequently claimed with the longest reference period. Among the scientists there is already a broad consensus that the first three years are a very crucial phase in child development, and it should not be so that children can be found as young as possible, nor in the infant age more or less away from mothers and fathers. We also say clearly: Quality before quantity. We reject container childcare, as it is often seen in Vienna. We also want to see clearly family-oriented economic policy accents and not vice versa, i.e. not economic-oriented family policies. [[Abg. May. Worm: You have no idea!]] [[Further calls to SPÖ and Greens.]] – We can discuss this later. This senseless drumfire's on me. Finally, I would like to refer to the financial allocations. We have been demanding automatic valorization of family benefits for years. We call for the introduction of a family division where the number of children is charged to the tax benefit and, of course, we want the 13th. Family aid, which is obviously to be sacrificed on the altar of the inconsistencies of government. In this sense, the FPÖ is certainly the only family party. We can say that with fug and law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13519	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13540	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It turns out again and again that the location determines the point of view of things, and some of our colleagues close their eyes to what it really looks like – and think only of long-standing ones Times. The claim to be the only true family party is high, but I am convinced that we are all very serious about the needs and wishes of the children and the Austrian families. ==References== Family report provides information and a generous overview of the last ten years. I also find it very exciting that this report is being rejected. When I found out in the Committee that it is a good work with many facts, forecasts and figures, Mr Haubner insisted that this also covers six years of her participation – as always FPÖ, BZÖ, colorful. So I don't quite understand: The report describes six years of participation and then rejects this report, but that is your case. This report is a reference work and serves above all as a starting point for looking at and thinking about the new challenges we face, where there is a need for action, which is important and necessary, and where there are, where appropriate, family-political weaknesses. The report shows that there will be new challenges, new fields of action, because there are changed family structures in Austria. The view of the children and the needs of the parents must be taken into account. This is a clear task for me, for us, for Parliament and, of course, for the Ministry, for the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about support measures in Austria, we are talking about €10 billion, which will be made available annually to the Austrian families, €6 billion from the family compensation fund, €4 billion by tax relief, free co-insurance in social security et cetera, et cetera. In addition, there are still different benefits from the federal states, some of which are also measures put in place in municipalities. So that's not a small thing anymore. If we increased the funding by one euro per year and per child, that would make up € 22 million. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to think about the need for a careful balance between financial benefits and grants on the one hand and benefits on the other. There is indeed a gap here, although the report repeatedly states that the provision of benefits in kind is one of the conditions and foundations for the existence of fair opportunities for children. That's important to me, too. I would also like to mention that it was the expert Guger who pointed out that financial benefits of course also serve to avoid poverty. Some of the topics in the report, which were very important, are the subject of time. How can I invest time in my family? How can I make time and space? How can I create timeliness to make family experience and feel in relation to the need for mobility, flexibility? It is also a question of binding or inability to do so. A key contribution in the report is the compatibility of work and family, care work and, of course, children as a key to taking into account children's wishes and enabling children. A major focus here is the qualified and large-scale provision of childcare in Austria. Child care, which provides education that provides care, which of course also does relationship work, relationship work in childcare facilities. For us, childcare and education facilities are services provided for children. That is why it is also important – I really ask everyone to participate – to extend the federal funding for the establishment of childcare facilities, because this is important and necessary. Some issues that are included in the report, such as violence. The custody in the Austrian families is increasing. We need to step up our commitment to this issue. We also need to think about the willingness of children and young people to do so, to think about how we can deal with it. My 5 minutes speaking time has been exhausted. I think there's a lot to do. The Austrian families are important to us, the children are important to us. I conclude with the slogan of the Austrian children's friends, who still has validity: More space, more time, more love for our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13613	The next speaker is Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13634	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Before I go into the report in detail, I have to say: Family policy is obviously a matter of women, because if I look at the list of speakers on today's family report, I have not found a single man on the list of speakers except the only man from our group. So I have to say, That continues to confirm our position. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the report: ==References== Austria's Family Report is to be read: The future is where families are. [[Abg. May. Worm: You probably haven't read any more!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - Please don't! We'll talk about it later, I'll start now. The future is where families are, which is to be read in the family report. In order to address the current situation of the families in Austria, I would like to turn the sentence around and say: Families are where they also have the future. For years, neither the childcare allowance nor the family allowance has been adjusted in Austria. The potential savings plans for the family budget are € 235 million for the coming year and € 1.4 billion by 2014. In my opinion, there must be a better solution than saving families, because families secure the future of Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, some measure has already been sent through, if both Mr Vice-Chancellor and you, Mrs State Secretary, have made it clear that the 13. Family aid is likely to be removed. I have to say that I have to defend myself completely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I recall the ÖVP's election log in front of the 2008 National Council elections, which said: “It’s enough! Families need help against inflation! Family assistance every September double for all...’ And right now, you're thinking about abolishing this doubling. The Austrians did not deserve this! [[Abg. Steibl: This is pure invention! That's not true!]] Thank you! They're giving me the key. Thank you very much, Mrs Colleague. In this context, I would like to make a request, and I would be pleased if you would agree with it today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13713	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, it is in a context of the matter being discussed and therefore also in negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13770	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13792	Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the galleries! Mrs Gartelgruber! I don't see you right now – but back there. It comes, I believe, not on a man speaking, but on what a man is talking. [[Conjugation with greens and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Steibl.]] As a left-wing politician, mother and part of a family, I have to say: I would have liked to give up on Mr Höbart's speech. [[Abg. Weinzinger: I don't!]] At our request today, we have the family report here on the discussion, a very excellent report. It has already been discussed how extensive it is, several kilos of paper. A very valuable basis. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner:... Civil service!]] – Mr Commissioner, we will talk about this later. A very valuable basis also in statistical terms and in terms of numerical material. Unfortunately, what bothers us a little about this report – and reports from other countries show that this would be very possible – is that it is only a report that is an ist analysis, but does not include any proposals and measures, which would have to be done in order to eliminate the one or other abuse described in the report. There are also many issues missing. For example, I would like to mention the problem of poverty, i.e. the area where things are going on in Austria, which is really at the bottom of the income pyramid. This is very poor, or is excluded from this report. Exciting in the report is that a very large part deals with the issue of demographic development in Austria, with the issue of birth rate. It is also exciting that in this context the statement that the birth rate would develop positively will be respectful if and because there are sufficient childcare facilities. This leaves us a little skeptical behind, because if we look at the childcare situation in Austria, and I want to focus on this part of the report today, then it is true that we have not even managed to achieve the Barcelona target in 2010, namely to support 33 percent of the three-year-olds and 90 percent of the three- to five-year-olds, but quite the contrary: We in Austria are there far behind! Mrs State Secretary, not only have you not achieved this objective, but you have also stopped all federal grants that have expired in 2010 and which mean the further expansion of childcare places. We also had a corresponding request from the Greens in committee. You have made this request, what you always do if you do not want to make decisions or not comment in public, if it is unpleasant to reject something: You postponed it. We give you the opportunity to vote on it again today, and I therefore have the opportunity to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This sounds very technical, but it is very important and in fact important for many families. Then: If we speak of courage to the child in this report – and you, Mrs. State Secretary, have done so in your statements on the Family Committee – when we speak of family and work compatibility, when we speak of poverty prevention and education as equal opportunities, then we always end up in the analysis on the following questions: How is it ordered by our childcare facilities? How many are there? Is there enough childcare facilities for all children in this country that they need? And I'm not only talking about the little ones, but I'm also talking about the afternoon care in schools or outside the schools. Are there enough places? And above all: Are there sufficient quality places? – Not only quality for the children, who are formed there so to speak, who are cared for there, but also quality for the caregivers. If I had to have several Vienna-Lobhudelia done about me today, I also have to remind you here that there is also a lot in Vienna in the Argen: that there are also places missing in Vienna, that there are also too few places in Vienna that are compatible with full employment, and above all that there are many caretakers in Vienna who work on the edge of the burn-out. Only this morning have some of them protested in front of the town hall: Afternoon caregivers who make the afternoon care of children in open schools, who have joined together into an association that can no longer and only see the only way out in front of the town hall to stand on the street and tell the mayor and the councillor of the city how they are going – and they are probably not going to have any answer, let alone reliefs. We have been hearing from the Minister for Women for several months how important it would be to extend the federal grant for childcare. I have heard from your colleague – I think he is a budget speaker – Jan Krainer in a TV discussion on Pulse 4 and now also from you, Mrs Binder-Maier, how important it is to get away from family benefits to infrastructure and services. With the request we are making today, you have the opportunity to show how seriously you mean it with your announcements: whether you really mean it seriously with education, whether you really think it is serious that all children in this country have the same chances, or whether you are solely concerned about making media meters here and directing colleagues in your government. One more thing: Perhaps you can pass this on to my colleague, Mrs Fekter, who has started quite well on child care issues today and has said that we need more men in childcare. I was already inclined to clap, but then she hopes that ÖVP education policy will experience a fresh wind, as it is formulated on the posters, unfortunately immediately destroyed, for it has spoken of kindergarten aunts. Here again it is said that kindergarten is not a family extension, but an educational institution. Therefore, kindergartens depend on our money and deserve our full attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13881	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13969	Mrs Marek spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e13990	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In almost all areas of family policy, innovative measures and family policy milestones have been set in the past ten years. This is evident in the current family report for the past ten years. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the experts and officials of our home, especially Dr. Filler. All of you have presented a truly excellent family report through your very intensive work. I thank you very much for that. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Donate.]] We have been able to achieve decisive success in financial justice for families, most importantly also in the compatibility of family and work, but also in improving protection against violence in the social sphere, a still highly topical issue that we must also devote ourselves to at present. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also excellent in European comparison, here we are absolutely in the forefront with on the one hand high monetary performance and on the other hand also very high, extensive performance in the field. In order to give you a very concrete number of comparisons: We are third within the EU, as measured by gross social product, the family benefits in Austria are 3%, the average in Europe is 2.1 percent. Mrs Kitzmüller, this cannot be denied even with freedom of expression. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As Mrs Steibl has already mentioned, family and children, as well as partnership, remain among the most important areas of life considered by people. That is why, from our point of view, it is all the more important to enable the Austrians in the most diverse forms of family life to live so that family life can also be lived. Some examples of family policy milestones in recent years: The compatibility of family and work is one of the key challenges of Austrian family policy for the coming years and decades. I would particularly like to address the childcare allowance introduced in 2002. With 1. In January 2010, it was supplemented by two additional short variants. This is about, Mr Höbart, recognizing the realities of life of the people and of the families. That is family policy, as it applies to people. Obviously there is also a small contradiction when women: Member of the Kitzmüller says that 90 percent of the families are excluded from the offer, and vice versa, Mr Höbart says that the majority of the families use the longest child care allowance variant. That clearly shows: Here you are in your own group a little disunity. The fact is: Five variants bring maximum freedom of choice, namely for families who want to take more time, as well as for “evil career women” – under quotes – who only then take courage to have a child again, ladies and gentlemen. It is precisely in this direction that we must go that real freedom of choice is available to families. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first trends also show us quite clearly that we are correct in the development of child care money, with everything that has happened here. Meanwhile, 16 percent of all parents opt for one of the two short variants. The share of fathers in the two new short variants is also three times as high as in the general average for childcare allowance. We assume that in the short term the short-term variants will have a father participation of around 20 percent. We believe that since a child always has two parents, both parents should also be fully involved in family work. For us, children have mothers and fathers – in everything we do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A major milestone was also the tax deductibility of child care costs, important in terms of the compatibility of family and occupation of the extension of the childcare offer. We have taken massive money into our hands in recent years, also on the part of the federal government. We see very clearly from the figures that we are right when we look at the development of childcare facilities. The day care statistics 2009/2010 show: We have massive increases in all age groups, resulting in the rate of care. Mrs Musiol, we have achieved the Barcelona target for the three to six years. We even exceeded the 90 percent care rate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, we have not reached the target as far as the under-three-year-olds are concerned. There we still need action; we are aware of that. There is also a need for a number of joint efforts by the federal and state governments. That's absolutely right. With the introduction of the mandatory last kindergarten year before entering the school, we have set another milestone. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of the following: Overall, countries receive around €370 million from the Federal Government for the expansion of childcare services in the years 2008 to 2013, i.e. a very high sum. There, Mrs Musiol, nothing has been stopped at all, but quite the contrary, we are confessing what is being invested in money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Over the last ten years, we have made massive efforts in financial services for families with a wide range of measures. Between 2002 and 2009, we made around € 1 billion more money available to families. To give just one example: Today, a single parent with three children receives around 170 € more direct promotions than it was in 2002. This is a major relief for families and an essential recognition of the important social importance of families as a whole. Family counsellors, parental education and mediation are also key topics. A very important issue for me, which is also reflected in the family report, is the legislation on protection against violence in Austria, which is always used internationally as an example. Nevertheless, we must continue to work on it, not least through research, in order to effectively combat, for example, violence in the social area and sexual violence against children, the worst form of violence on children. On the subject of common care, a working session was held at the invitation of the Federal Minister for Justice, and now a working group will be installed. Here, too, we confess that a child always has two parents, namely mother and father, and puts the child's well-being in the foreground, it must always be our goal that, if possible, both parents take responsibility for the child or for the children, in the sense of the children and their development. The fact that there are always difficult situations is undisputed. We need good framework conditions so that as many children as possible have both parents and care for both parents is possible, even if there is no common household after separation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented a very successful family policy balance in recent years. We also see this as a very clear task. The Family Report presents key challenges for the next few years. It is quite clear, Mrs Musiol, that the reports present challenges. Here are the main areas of action for the next years: On the one hand, we are working on ensuring the best possible support for families in difficult situations – I have addressed the common care – but also when it comes to social problems and others. It is about further improving the framework conditions for the compatibility of family and work, where not only child care is the subject. It is also about how the framework conditions in the enterprises for working parents look and much more. But it's also about courage to the child. Even though this is being smiled by some in this House, ladies and gentlemen, it is reality that people want on average two children – and realize much less. This is precisely what we need to work on, namely, creating conditions for people to trust in having children and raising them. Many other measures are needed here. The fight against violence in the family, in the social neighbourhood, is also our central challenge and responsibility. A key challenge is also the sustainable financing of family benefits, and necessary measures to secure the family budget are currently being discussed and developed very widely and in detail in our home. There is no tunnel view, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, there is a wide view. We must continue – and this is our goal – to ensure the position of Austria as a reliable family country for all families accordingly. We'll do that. We'll guarantee that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14148	Mrs Kitzmüller spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14172	I would like to make two real corrections: On the one hand, I said that 10 percent of mothers of children under three years of age want to work full-time again and 90 percent want to use the long version and just work part-time or stay at home. And at 10 and 90 percent, 90 percent are probably the majority! Secondly, child care money has not been introduced by you, but it has been introduced during the FPÖ's government participation on the decisive initiative of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14211	Madam President, I have not deliberately interrupted you in order not to bring a sausage into the debate which is not intended. But in the future, the matter to be corrected must be reflected and then presented with the correction. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. I would ask you to take this into consideration in the future. Mrs Mühlberghuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14236	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To the report some figures, facts and forecasts: According to the report, the number of households grew faster than the population between 1915 and 2008 and is now 3.5 million. Almost two thirds of all households are family households, but the number of single households has tripled and is now 35 percent. A further increase in households to around 41 percent by 2050 is forecast. The share of couples without children will grow by 2050, and the share of couples with children will fall in return – a process that is mainly attributed to demographic ageing. A further increase in living communities is also expected, as the Austrians increasingly rarely choose to marry. A very interesting number from the divorce data: The highest rate recorded in 2008 Vienna at almost 60 percent. A life with children still belongs to the life plans of most of the Austrians. However, family start-up is increasingly delayed, due to longer periods of training and incompatibility of family and profession. The desire to have children is available. According to the report, on average there are two children wishing to be born, but the birth rate is only 1.4 children. The reasons for this are, for example, fears of maintaining the standard of living, i.e. financial reasons, and many women can no longer have children after long delays. Due to this low birth rate of 1.4 children and the rapid increase in the number of older people, a large gap has arisen. The generation contract threatens to be broken and cannot be observed in the future. Only through more childcare places, as you said, Mrs. State Secretary, can the problem be solved. We also need a fair family tax system which: So-called family tax division as in France, then our families can afford children again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We say where families are where children are, a country can renew and have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14284	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14305	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, this family report is a very comprehensive work, a very informative reference work with facts, data, figures from the last ten years. I am particularly concerned about the achievements implemented between the years 2000 and 2006, which are at least two thirds of the benefits mentioned in this report. I am at all benefits, not only to the child care allowance, which we were at the time able to implement as a liberal in government responsibility – as a pioneer it had already been implemented by Jörg Haider in Carinthia. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, as a family politician, I also see that the living and working situations within the families, with their parents, have changed considerably over the last ten years. It is our job as a politician and as a politician to draw the right conclusions from it. We read in this report – it has already sounded – that fewer and fewer children are born. It will be dramatic by 2050. Although there is a desire to have a family to have children, the courage is ultimately lacking. If some scientists in the Committee said that the amount of transfers is not related to the number of children, I have to take note of this, but my own experience clearly shows that the courage to children is very much dependent on economic factors, but also on the professional situation. Therefore, Mrs State Secretary, I say: Hands away from the reduction of the financial benefits that families currently receive in Austria! Get your hands off me! Financial benefits in particular are a means of combating poverty. Mr Mag. Mr Guger said it very clearly in the Committee: Currently, with family benefits 12 percent are at risk of poverty, without family benefits it would be 27 percent. I think there's everything in there that we don't reduce these benefits. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As I said, the changes in the working world also present us with great challenges. There are other employment relationships, atypical employment relationships, temporary employment relationships, the trend towards part-time work is becoming stronger for women in particular. But we also know that God, unfortunately, comes from a divorce family every fifth child, and we also know that every tenth family is a stepfamily. Therefore, it is very important for us from BZÖ in the field of childcare that there is still freedom of choice for parents, how and when they want to care for their children and how and when they want to invest their time for their children. However, we also know that we need flexible offers in child care at times that are also in line with the very different and flexible working hours. We should not forget: We still have the problem the margin times that have not been resolved. Now the kindergarten is manageable for everyone, but it is nevertheless associated with many restrictions. In Vienna, for example, parents are required when they have to bring their children, because there is no staff at certain times. It can't be! That is why we from the BZÖ put forward a motion for a resolution which we have already tabled – but I would like to support it once again – on the continuation of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on the extension of institutional childcare. The issue is that three objectives are currently set and from our point of view these three objectives have not yet been fully achieved. [[Quoted print version removed]] However, I would also like to say in this context: Child care can not only be limited to the preschool age, but also does not lead to more offers in all day care at school. We also need to develop in the direction that students and teachers work together during the day. This must also be established in future teacher service law: Teachers have to be in school! Teachers have the children to care for! Teachers have to ensure that children receive promotion lessons to give follow-up lessons to save families a lot in this area too. I would like to say the following critically: Despite increases in the female employment rate, the imbalances in paid and unpaid work in which family work is still given are still present. Women are leading here. This also continues in the care and care at home. I miss – and I have already missed that in committee – clear answers from this government. So what can we do to make a change? . I think we should allow discussion, such as about generation money, mothers' money, more retirement times for children's education. We should allow these discussions to be very serious, without one side or the other re-extracting the ideological void. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that there are fewer and fewer children, but more and more people who hopefully grow up healthy, poses the danger that our social system will get into a bad situation. It is therefore very important to us from the BZÖ that we observe more than ever the basic principle of generation justice, because today we have to set the course in such a way that future generations have the same chances of living. And if I look at the debt of €240 billion in the budget, I have to say: This debt certainly weakens the scope for future generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why our proposals – and we have already submitted them – are that generation-righteousness is enshrined in all laws, that all laws are re-examined by generation and that generation-righteousness is also laid down in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! Families are resources for a society, resources are also in difficult economic situations, in the crisis, and must not become victims of false policies. Families need reliability and not reductions in benefits and new tax burdens. Families also need a strong lobby that spreads a very positive image of the families. Families need a lobby that represents their interests that strengthens families, and for that stands the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14415	The motion for a resolution just tabled on the extension of the institutional provision for childcare is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14476	The next speaker was Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14497	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I am also pleased with the family report. It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, he is very extensive and shows above all how much has been done for the families in recent years – also with the participation of the liberals. That is why I do not at all understand why the liberals cannot agree to this family report today. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We ask ourselves that too!]] I just don't understand. You did it at the time. From my point of view, that's almost as if you don't recognize your own work. I shall come to your motion for a resolution, Mrs Gartelgruber. I feel what you're doing here with 13. Family aid, as a fright, and I also feel it is an insecurity of the families. Just because election is, get that on the tapet. I don't think that's right. We have not yet concluded any negotiations. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Sad enough!]] We are, so to speak, “working in progress”, we are working on negotiating. We don't know what's coming at all. Perhaps we will also come to a better solution than this 13. Family allowances. Who says it always has to be that? [[call to the FPÖ.]] I would really ask you to take a little back there and not to insure the families in that case. From my point of view, it is essential that a lot has been done for the families. For me personally crucial and a milestone is the tax deductibility of childcare. Especially in the context of demographic development – mentioned by the previous speakers, particularly by Mrs Haubner – there is still a lot to talk about, many ideas still need to be brought in. And we have to deal with the question of how we can also care for our older family members according to how we can care for them without moving them to old homes. That can't be the meaning and purpose. That's why I always plead for private care, for private assistance; it's all better than to push the older people home. I would like to thank all those who have helped with these benefits that we have obtained for the families. I would like to thank all those who have agreed to child care. I believe that if we discuss together really openly and honestly, we can achieve more for families now, in times when we need to tighten the belt, than if we always make each other bad. I would like to thank our Mrs. State Secretary for the great work and wish you all the best for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14553	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14575	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of my previous speakers has mentioned briefly how the family situation will be in 2050. It will be most of the population – better said, more than half of the population – over 50 years old. There will be more older people, there will be fewer children. We currently have 2.3 million families, i.e. married couples, living communities and parents with their children, but their composition will also change greatly. There will be more patchwork families, there will be more singles, and there will be even couples without children. That is what the report simply shows. However, this report also focuses in particular on the effects of the social change of families. We still have the dilemma that only women in favor of the children give up their career. This will certainly be a challenge for the family policy of the next few years. Mrs. State Secretary, I would like us not always to try to convey a picture, but I have not heard the term of the “evil career man”. It is also critical for me to see the increase in women's atypical and precarious employment conditions. It is also critical in the report to note that paternal images are now being discussed in particular. In so far as the new fathers are in danger of precarious situations of women coming into the background. And if Mr Höbart says that the first three years of the child's life are the most important and that the mother has to be at home, I would like to congratulate Mr Höbart if he explains to a single mother who has to go to work after the term of protection because she was left sitting alone with the child and could not afford the apartment otherwise. I would like to congratulate him very warmly on the explanation he has for this. But perhaps there may also be a view in which there is not only black or white, but also something in between. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the traditional division of family work, unfortunately, not much has changed yet, but the pattern of employment of women is starting to break up very slowly compared to that of men. In the country comparison – and especially the countries of Europe – it always depends very much on how many children you have, at which age the children are, whether women are employed or not. In the conservative welfare countries such as Germany or the Netherlands, the employment of women is dominated by part-time, because they are staying at home for a very long time. In Sweden and Denmark, it is a matter of course that 80 percent of married households are engaged in full employment and that no one has a bad conscience, but also with the background that the framework conditions are simply right. What is very important to me is that, in financing the supply, not only the two components of the state and families are taken from them, but also, as reported in the Committee, one should take the companies, say, the economy into the boat. The economy is to be more and more responsible for the introduction of farm kindergartens. If they are small businesses, they can join together, hire day mothers or organize a joint farm kindergarten. Farms have an advantage if their children are well accommodated in an extra-domestic educational institution with a very high educational value. – This is also clearly proven by statistics. I would like to suggest that we also consider this model in Austria. The interfaces between society, family and market must be seen as a social challenge for the compatibility of work and family. This is a complex analysis and requires a very important political design. It does not make sense for the Greens to put the postponed requests in the plenary once more, and let them vote once again before the budget is finally in place. We have to deal with this, we have to discuss it through. We will therefore take note of this family report, since we believe that it is a very good basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14658	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14679	Mr President. High house! Dear visitors! I would like to point out one thing, especially in In the direction of the members of the FPÖ, like schizophrenics and very scurry, it is actually that in all four speeches they refer to the family report, quote the figures, quote from them for a very long time, like the colleague Mühlberghuber, but then do not agree with the report. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Steibl.]] How can we understand that? – This is very strange, because the report does nothing but do very well to repeat how the status quo is for families in Austria; and I think you can take note of that. Which conclusions we draw, that's the other thing. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] But an expert in hearing – I think it was an expert who was invited by the ÖVP – has noted so beautifully that in Austria there is a great gap between verbal openness and living reality in family life. This also proves very well in many aspects, for example, if there is a regulated family life or a similar family life in which men and women can develop and contribute in the same way, in which children are also taken into account in all facets, we do not get to wear it, although the wishes and desires of families are there. On the one hand, this can be seen in a statistics that states that 72 percent of Austrians are in favour of the mother staying as long as possible with her child until the third year of life. On the other hand, 84 percent believe that mothers can agree well on family life and working life. This is just one of the many contradictions to which it is urgent to respond. On the other hand, the family report also shows very well that more and more fathers want time with their children, want time for family life, and would like them to be able not only to be employed and caregivers, but also to be there for their children and also for the women. Family life also includes being together and spending time together. In reality, then, the fathers have very little time for their children and at best spend time with them when they play with the children or do sports or when it comes to the caretaker role; but when it comes to bringing the children to the vaccination, caring for sick children or cleaning up after the childbirth day, the mothers are still responsible. That is what the report shows us. The fact that there is a refusal of reality from your side, from the FPÖ side, in relation to the facts that stand there, is one thing and does not surprise us – in your eternality. But that much more than it has happened so far should be politically responded to – although we naturally welcome the income-dependent child money – is the other thing. We have been promised in the government programme that the Papa Moon will be introduced. We have also tabled a proposal on this subject in the Committee. Even if you feel that it makes no sense to repeat requests, I would like to remind you that the Papa month is not only in the government programme, but is a very important factor in the father's participation and should be addressed urgently. That is why we are bringing in the motion for a resolution which we have already tabled in committee: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth is invited to submit to the National Council a government proposal for the introduction of a papal month by 31.12.2010.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14767	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled on Papa-Monat is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14847	The next speaker was Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14868	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank you at this point for the comprehensive report, which is a good reference work and which you can always rely on. I would also like to thank Mrs Binder-Maier, who has recognised that two thirds of the content of this report concerns what we have implemented and achieved for families during our government participation. Mrs Binder-Maier also referred to the custody of children and said that there is a great need for action. – I may invite you again: We will certainly make our request for extension of the mother-child passport to a mother-child-youth pass once again, and perhaps you can give your consent there after you have admitted today that there is a great need for action in the custody of children. – So much for it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have to thank the families in particular. We have to thank our families because they are the foundation of our society. Families are performance carriers and must not be insecure and also not be put as a bitter. The fact that we want to save families now, ladies and gentlemen, I think is purely economically unacceptable, because without the unpaid family work done by women, our society would be pulled away from the ground under the feet. Unfortunately, this family work is not only unpaid, but also unthankful – and this is seen from the fact that it is now intended to be used for those who work for our society free of charge. According to a current survey, two thirds of the parents in Austria feel that their achievements are not properly recognized and rewarded, neither materially nor humanly. Ladies and gentlemen – and I am addressing the representatives of the government parties here – as I do not think that I am serious about further uncertainty. Today, none of the government representatives have the 13th. Family aid other than compulsory. The 13th. Family aid was addressed by the opposition parties, but there was no clear statement that the 13. Family aid is not abolished. In the Free Kindergarten it is the same thing: Individual heads of state still criticize the Free Kindergarten and want to abolish it. I ask you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Perhaps you can explain to the families how these can still make sense, what they can still rely on. They cannot rely on your government policy and on your budget policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Child care and also the importance of the compatibility of work and family has been addressed several times today. In this context, I should like to speak to the government parties, the representatives of the government parties, since neither the head of state Voves in Styria nor the head of state of the state, Schützenhofer – one with 26 employees, the other with 22 employees – have been able to collect the money from the Article-15a agreement, which lies with the Federation, for childcare in Styria and to use it there for childcare – for there it would be urgently necessary, and then I will say why. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have an example from the district capital Bruck on the Mur, which has about 13,000 inhabitants. There is a day-round kindergarten where around 100 children can find room. Now I ask you: What do the other parents do with their children? – There is no sufficient care, there is no adequate childcare, ladies and gentlemen. That's irrational policy. Also, the lack of daily mothers in the Styria was not responded in time. For this, the head of state is in the Styria: “That’s right. Keep going.” If that goes on, then it looks like the Steiermark. But the voters did on 26 May. September the opportunity to see to it a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14960	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e14983	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand the motivation to vote against a report, because it is not yet a political measure, it is a stocktaking, it is a report – and if it is all our goal to improve the framework conditions for families, then it needs an inventory. [[call to the FPÖ.]] . We can then argue and discuss the various measures, and we can or can be opposed to them, but how we can be a report against an inventory is not understandable to me. However, I have, of course, read the report in contrast to the FPÖ colleague, and he points out that we have done a lot in some areas: the 13. Family aid, the tax reduction package, which has helped families in particular, but also in other areas, but of course it also shows gaps. [[Call the FPÖ: Was not credible!]] As an example – and I think that may have provoked FPÖ – he shows that role claims of women and men are changing. That is, for 86 percent of Austrian women under forty years of age, child and profession are no longer a contradiction, and they require society to be able to agree – and also politics. [[Call the FPÖ:From politics!]] Now we are on a very essential point, the point that the Minister of Women and the Secretary of State and that she is fighting for, and that is the extension of childcare – not of any childcare, but of high-quality childcare. Again to the colleagues from the FPÖ: They are right, the first three years are very important in the development of a child, and precisely there are high-quality childcare facilities necessary for children to learn to come out with other children so that children learn that there are different children so that children learn together with other children. [[Abg. Singer: The mother is necessary!]] In summary: If Austria is to become the children's country number one, for which we are all – I believe – it needs more such reports that take stock of, and then it also needs a common effort to expand childcare facilities and to enable the compatibility of work and family – not only with facilities, but also with a social policy attitude, and we can all contribute to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15060	The next speaker was Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The family is in the process of change, the report shows us quite clearly, black and white. This change means that the traditional family forms of father-mother-child or several children are simply no longer existent, and we have to face this everyday reality. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Every child has father and mother!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But every child has father and mother!]] It is true, Mr Molterer, because they no longer live together, and you too must accept this as an ÖVP, quite simply. For example, the children's country of Lower Austria must also accept this, because 50 percent of the marriages in Lower Austria are divorced, and therefore Father, Mother and Child are no longer living together, Mr. Molterer. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ask the Glavischig who knows that children have father and mother!]] The change means accepting a variety of challenges – a variety of challenges. Of course, these challenges cannot be written down or they are difficult to pass on, as the challenges in the education of children and young people are more difficult to overcome in today's fast-lived period. This requires adapted environmental structures, and this report shows very clearly. What he also points out is that these adapted environmental structures simply do not prevail. Education and care facilities are a very central issue in this report, only – the Secretary of State has done it again today –: Confession alone is too little. Clear implementation needs to be implemented, clear action needs to be taken, and clear financial resources are needed. The practised family policy has not yet fully adapted to everyday reality. In order to return to education and care facilities: Is this the central topic? – It is not only the central issue in this family report, it is the central issue in active child and youth policy, it is the central issue throughout the field of education policy. And if this government does not slow down, but it does get in the way of education policy, it simply looks like the future of all children and young people. The same applies to the environment structures and to the interaction of generations – this is a very large area of this family report. But what is missing is to look at the situation of children and young people. Very briefly, the UN children's rights are mentioned. However, active child and youth policy means more, and it also means ensuring protection from violence – with all that it costs, with all the prevention work that needs to be included in the budget. The question of financial resources and the question of savings measures are on the agenda, which must be clarified, they are clear and clear to the families in Austria, otherwise family policy will never change.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15148	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15169	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! If we read through the family report or even go through the world normally and talk to people, we quickly get to know what Mr. or Mrs. Austrian wants: a happy relationship and two children. But life often plays a different game. Marriages are to varying degrees depending on whether in urban or rural areas. Obesity disputes often follow, and from these two children, often either no child or an average of 1.4 children. So eventually, somewhere, then, this ideal remains, this wishful image during adult life on the track. All over the world – and now I come to my main topic and also address the request made by Mr Musiol – where childcare facilities are available to a sufficient extent, are quality available, children's institutions are in the best sense of the word, the men and women, the future fathers and mothers, have exactly what you need, namely the courage to the child. The young women, the young men want to be sure that they can go to work and then the child is not given to the wardrobe, but can stay in a good facility – and there it looks different. It looks different in that the zero- to three-year-olds have so far not been as well cared for here in Austria as we would wish. Even if we achieve these much quoted Barcelona targets, we see that these 33 percent have not yet been achieved. That is why we have provided the Federation, in joint effort, with this so-called start-up funding – kindergarten billions, as this measure means – with the aim of creating 17 000 new childcare places over the last two years, which is 6 000 new, qualified jobs for women and men. That's a good cut, we're on the right track. Instead of 10 percent, we now have about 16 percent places available, often at half reasonable prices. I can remember different facilities in Tyrol, where the women or the parents had to pay 300 to 400 €, and that's just too much money you can't afford. So, we have to focus on what the families want. That is why we are continuing to work in this sense. I hope that what you, Mrs State Secretary, have already announced to us in the committee, that we can continue to fund this start-up funding in such a way, so that the countries can then double and we will come to our 33 percent in the future. I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Schenk, who said that she was afraid that the national leaders were already turning back various achievements and that the Free Kindergarten, where he is being offered, was in danger. I can only say the following – as far as I remember – and the newspapers could be read: The first to take back this performance was the Carinthian head of state Dörfler. Just to remember!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15209	Mrs Marek's speech to Mrs Magistrate has been correct. Musiol. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15233	If you, Mrs. State Secretary, say that the Barcelona target is achieved for the three to five years, then that is not true. This Barcelona target – which means the whole age group of three to five years – is 90 percent and should be achieved in 2010. In fact, however, the three- to five-year-olds' care statistics in Austria account for 88.5%, which is 1.5 percent less than 90 percent. For the five-year-olds you've picked out, it's 93.9 percent, but for the three- to five-year-olds, it's 88.5 percent. And with the three-year-olds even 40,000 places are missing. So: Nothing's all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15267	Mrs Schönpass is speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15288	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, our children in Austria have ever longer and more frequent grandparents. These often act as a so-called reserve army. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] They are an additional safety net for children when parents and public institutions cannot provide what children need. - Because I heard a smile there: I'm five times grandma. [[Congratulations as well as reputation at the ÖVP:No, that's positive!]] Sibling relationships are among the most intense and longest relationships in the life of a human being. The myth of the non-social single child could not be found in this report. That separation and divorce represent a major challenge for the partners and almost always a temporary crisis for a child has been worked out in detail in this report. Ladies and gentlemen, did you know that the step-families in which biological and social parenthood is not comparable for both parents are not a new form of family, but were still much more widespread a few centuries ago? The only difference is that earlier step families usually arise after the death of a parent and today rather after a divorce. 9.5 percent of Austrian children live in step families. Often, stepparents take on care and education tasks quite naturally. But these boots have no rights. There is a need for action, Mrs State Secretary. Two approaches have been confirmed in this report by us Social Democrats, whom we have long followed and called for. Firstly, we in Austria have a very strong link between the social status of the families and the educational qualifications sought by the children. Educational participation depends always and everywhere on the level of education of parents, ethnic origin and the region. However, how much these factors actually work depends on the school system – and the family report also confirms that overall school systems prove to reduce educational inequalities. Secondly, it is clearly demonstrated that there is hardly any link between the birth rate and the amount of family benefits, but that there is a strong link between the birth rate and the availability of out-of-home care, for example for infants. Since we know that our birth rate is much lower than in the OECD section, we also need to talk about whether there is no less direct payments and more benefits in kind more satisfying the needs of families and thus could also increase the birth rate in us. I can assure you that we will work together to ensure that further support for the development of childcare facilities is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15338	As the last speaker, Mrs Steibl has spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15359	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to me to make some clarifications at the end of the day. If Mrs Musiol says that the Barcelona target has not been achieved, I can only answer her quite clearly: That's not true! [[Abg. May. Musiol: Read the family report!]] The right thing is: The Barcelona target was achieved at 89.3 percent. And if you add the care with the day's mothers, that's 90 percent. You may not agree that good work is also done by the day's mothers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make a few points on these four motions for resolutions: First of all, Austria is in the forefront of the European comparison with its family benefits. Secondly, you also know the parliamentary procedure: A motion for a resolution that we must deal with, through the bank, also with the government parties. This has not yet been achieved in my 16-year-old Parliament. I can assure you that we take great care on the part of the Government Party to keep family benefits as best we can in order to maintain this quality that we have. It also includes, of course, the 13th. Family aid is, or will be, an overall package to be negotiated. And you know the parliamentary process. We will take everything in, for the benefit of our families, so that there are no deletions in the sense that the quality suffers.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15402	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-157 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gartelgruber, colleagues, on the maintenance of the 13th century. Family allowances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Musiol, colleagues on the continuation of the federal grant for the extension of childcare. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues, on the continuation of the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the extension of the institutional provision of childcare. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This too is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schwentner, colleagues on the introduction of a ‘papa month’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:45:28]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 509/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on the harmonization of the arrangements for applying and disbursing family benefits in Austria (884 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15514	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15542	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Families often depend on many places to receive their aid. It is difficult for many to really take advantage of this, because the payouts, the payouts and the applications are very inconspicuous and very confusing, and it is often a very big obstacle to contact all the places. In addition, the payment dates are very different. We have a payment every two months for the family allowance and for the childcare allowance on the sixth day of the following month. It is also different the method of payment here. Often you need the same documents for each post. It would be a very great help for the families – I am thinking in particular of the single parents, who have to make these routes on their own – that there is a need to make simplification, even in the sense of a cheaper and simpler bureaucracy. We do not have to blow up the bureaucracy, and in the sense of saving taxpayers' money, it would be easier to have a simple payout and not to have to run from Pontius to Pilate in order to benefit from the aid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15569	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15592	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous debate on the family report, it was clear that family benefits in Austria can really be seen and we are very good at doing so in the monetary as well as in the subject area. The present BZÖ application on the harmonisation of the application and payment arrangements will not alter the quality of family benefits. In addition, we can also note that family allowances and childcare allowances are different things. However, both can be requested on the post office and online, and here I believe it is a matter of simplifying this procedure and looking for ways to get a little better. The programme for the discharge of citizens in the administrative procedure, the results of which have already been presented in the Ministry of Finance, goes exactly in this direction. There are substantial potentials here, for example in the eGovernment area. This saves both administrative costs and citizens. It makes sense for people to be able to make different applications in one place and then forward them in-house. This is also more customer-friendly and cost-effective. Consideration of the competent ministry has already gone a long way, and concrete action is to be taken next year. There is no need to change the payment mode in the case of family aid. Existing mode is well accepted by the population, and it is therefore not necessary to make changes that would actually mean only more administrative effort. It is valuable to note that in the future payment documents contain relevant information on the website of the resort so that all families can make a proper picture, an overview of the services and the offer for the families. In view of the high quality of domestic family benefits, we should all stick to it: The money should benefit families and not bureaucracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15636	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15657	Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We can certainly agree with the BZÖ's request because it is really a matter for families whether they receive benefits once a month or only every two months. If you say, Mr Commissioner of the ÖVP, that mode is well accepted by the population, then I assume once again that you mean that part of the population that belongs to your clientele, namely the well and better deserved families. It is true that, as a single mother, I can do well with the salary of a member of the national council, if I only receive family allowances every two months, but for the single mother who has no income, for the single mother who does not earn even €1,000 for 40 hours of work, for the families who have a low income, it makes a difference whether they receive monthly benefits or receive benefits every two months. [[Abg. Steibl: She gets more!]] That you cannot understand and understand from the ÖVP, I can understand again, because this is again a proof of how foreign to the world [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Steibl and Mr Praßl]] They are about the realities of many people in this country, whether they are in Vienna, Styria or in other federal states. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact that you, the government parties, regularly address the problems raised to us Members and that we, as Members of this House, then reject them, with arrogance and refusal of reality also shows that this is the only request of many who are located in the Family Committee, that this request is one of the few who come to plenary at all and to whom you have at all expressed yourself in any form, either in the form of consent or rejection. It is almost a miracle that this request is at all here for discussion. I do not want to keep in mind which requests that really concern the day-to-day problems that people are dealing with have been postponed by this coalition, because they do not want to express themselves here. This is, for example, the request made by Mr Moser and me with the subject “Adaptation of the rules on student leave to today’s family everyday needs”. A bulky title, but what does that mean? – We have many children who, as already explained in the family report, do not live in a place of residence, but in several places of residence, because it is now a reality in this country that parents separate, that children have their home at both parents, from there also drive to school, but our free ride is not adapted at all. Our student-free ride provides that you have to indicate a main residence and only the journey from this main residence to the school and return is free. All the other rides to be done are not free. What do ÖVP and SPÖ do with this proposal, which would really help many families to cope with their everyday problems? - You're abdicating him. We had two requests today for a direct vote to see how you behaved here. These were the two applications concerning Papa-Monat and federal grant. These two measures are constantly called for by members of the government and also by members of the government groups. But what are you doing when it comes to implementing this, putting in motions here, commenting on proposals from the Greens, the BZÖ, in any form to the FPÖ? - They're adjourning. Furthermore, this concerns the request made by Mrs Haubner on the subject of ‘Annual Valorization of Family Benefits’. We did not have this in committee for the first time, but again and again. What's that about? – Family benefits have not been valorized for years. The annual valorization would be a measure that would really benefit all families and not just your clientele, the well and better deserved families. What are you doing? - They're adjourning. And so on and so on. We will see how you are here within the framework of the budget, which, I suppose, first of all from the 11th. We are told on October, that we will continue to proceed. We will see if you continue to promote your family-friendly policy for the good and better-earning families and the family-unfriendly policy for the families who do not have so much money that lives at the poverty line, so to speak, to continue to do so and to keep on helping them. We will continue to do so, and we will continue to make these requests. We got her in the drawer. [[Abg. Grossruck: Unhazardous threat!]] We just need to change the date, and we won't rest until you finally agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15733	Next, Mr Lipitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15755	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. The disbursement of the various family benefits or their application – that is right – falls within the competence of different local authorities, namely in those of federal, regional and local authorities. It should be noted, however, that each of these bodies has defined their goal to support the families themselves and differently. I would just like to mention the school start-up in Carinthia, which has been greatly reduced this year, but it has been defined that people need it. This school start-up fee, which has been shortened, has now been presented and sent out by issues or, I say, timetables with the face of the relevant speaker. About the way – yes, I look in this direction too – that is, the way in which you can argue here, of course, when students or families are given help in this form. [[Abg.: (showing toward FPÖ banks) This is not my coffee! Up there in the third row!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] A change in the current legal situation would mean not only simplification – that has already been mentioned – but a massive increase in administrative burden. To convert the family allowance to a monthly payment would also mean a doubling of this administrative burden. With the introduction of the transparency database, a first step towards simplifying this area is being taken, and I assume that you, Mrs State Secretary, or the Ministry, are continuing to work on providing families with the opportunity to get to their money quickly and to carry out the application as easily as possible. We shall take note of this negative committee report on the part of our group in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15798	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15820	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I have already asked myself the whole day the question of how honest it is for the government parties to put words such as “reforms”, “reforms of administration” or “saving money” into their mouth when they talk about school reforms, in school administration, in school bureaucracy, when ideas arise at once, such as the reduction of land days, the abolition of the federal council, the reduction of national governments and the like. I have come to realize for myself that all these things are very unbelievable, that the experience shows that many promises are made especially in pre-election periods, which are then not kept. But where you could actually do something very quickly and specifically – and this request concerns a very specific issue – you will show your face as a refusal of reform and as an obstacle to savings. I would just like to point out in this request that the three benefits mentioned are the three main benefits in family policy as regards transfers: Childcare allowance, family allowance and family allowance. The fact that their disbursement is not only done by two different bodies, but, as Mr Musiol has already said, at different times is something I must say: I can only agree that, especially for low-income families, the disbursement of family aid for two months leaves gaps in the budget budget, but also that the contradiction is that one cannot clearly manage and disburse these benefits from one point of view. Instead of doing something here, you have left the proposal that has been before the House since 2009 untreated in the Committee, and now You, as I have been able to say, reject him with the argument that, as Mr Prinz said, the considerations for an improvement are already far advanced. That's what I'm asking myself: If the considerations are already so advanced, why can't you include this proposal? What to do But, on the other hand, you? – You simply reject this now and do not feel that you have a performance reduction for the families of €234 million in the room, that you are insecure the families and that the 13. Family aid - which has already been mentioned - is likely to take away the families again. They're making the families pay for your downtime policy. The same applies to education and research. We have not heard any comments from you, Mrs State Secretary, in the last few weeks and months in this direction. They wait and dwindle over until after the election in Vienna, so that they don't have to go out now or say what really happens. I therefore appeal to the supposedly so reformable social democrats – the young colleague who spoke for the first time today – to finally start with the joy of reforming social democracy – where people are particularly affected, and these are the families. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15877	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. I am now interrupting the negotiations on the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:01:17]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance, on electoral fraud and constitutional breach by the Federal Government (6382/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e15929	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 6382/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16089	I now grant Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the questioner for the reasons of the urgent request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16110	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Finanzminister, you are forcing us – as you are insisting on breaking the Constitution in the run-up – to put you in prayer again today to your intention not to submit the budget in accordance with the Constitution in due time. [[Abg. Grill: In prayer?]] - Yes, in prayer. I now deliberately use Christian Catholic expressions because he might be a little easier with them. As I said, we're taking you to prayer again today. [[Call at the FPÖ: Prayer is not just...!]] Since we already know about – we know you now from the last budget discussions – that you tend to talk a bit of fogging and not announce some things in time and also openly and honestly, like tax increases, I would like to go ahead with some facts and find one at the beginning: It's ended since yesterday! Since yesterday, the data that you have always spoken out is that you only have the budget statement after 10th, 11th. October, can do, on the table. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] The Economic Research Institute will publish its September forecast on Friday. You already have the key dates, we already have them. There is actually no longer any excuse now, why you do not rush into the ministry immediately and work out the draft budget and manage it in four weeks to actually present it. [[Abg. Großruck: Because he has to be there!]] Actually, that can't be a problem. Nevertheless, back to the facts: We have a prognosis that is much more optimistic than in June. The reason for this is a very good second quarter. Austria obviously benefits greatly from the German boom, from the boom of the export economy. The Germans will have a real 3 percent growth this year. However, before you break into the jubile choirs, as we already fear, you still have to be a little careful. However, for the second half of the year, there will again be a slight weakening of the world economy, simply because the economic programmes are running out. This applies to the USA – Barack Obama is thinking about another economic package – and China is the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] That is, one must nevertheless look at this forecast with some caution and should not break out completely unreflected in jubile choirs. There can be no mention of a self-sustained upturn in the economy – so be careful! The numbers are now, however. You have always said that we should wait until the last possible time, then we can work it all out. You now have exactly four weeks, the budget still in time, namely on 22. October to lead this House. What else prevents you from doing this? There are finance ministers in history who have done this much faster. So these excuses need to be made. You can't use them anymore. You may rather ask who is hindering you from making the budget. A month of time must be enough. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One thing I have to mention, because you're probably going to take this out today: You announced to the Austrian Press Agency yesterday, if you had done the rest of the budget according to the old figures, you would have been dramaticly close to it. But apart from that, you have to say that you can make adjustments within a month, even if you lie next to it. So if you had already drawn up the budget in the draft, I think it would not have been a problem to adapt it. But do you know where you are really dramatic? - That's a price question! Name: With your double budget for the years 2009 and 2010. Because you have not been able to take away from deciding a double budget at the height of uncertainty, in May, on the basis of the then valid forecast of the Wifo of 0.5 percent growth. What do we have now? – 2 percent growth. At that time, you are really – and this is blamable – adjacent to you because of your stubbornness to have to decide on a double budget, and thus you have excluded any room for play – including those for this year – to invest more in some areas. It is a growth difference of €4 billion. Perhaps you would have the kindness to admit today that you are dramatically adjacent with this double budget, namely in relation to the budget this year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second excuse you use now is also interesting, and that leads me to the question: Who actually prevents you from creating a budget in these four weeks? You meant yesterday, election struggles ruined the budget. Land leaders fighting for their survival destroyed their suggestions. [[Abg. Grosz: (in the direction of Vice-Chancellor Dipl.-Ing. How was the birthday celebration?]] How can you imagine that? – Is it for example that the head of state Voves travels to the ministry with a Styrian double axe and destroys your proposals or that the mayor of Vienna is driving a Fiakertross to the ministry and destroys your proposals? What is your statement really supposed to mean, the heads of state destroy your proposals? I mean, you're gonna have a little discussion. But what does it actually mean to destroy the heads of state Your budget? My conclusion from this whole story is as follows: You should listen a little less to the national leaders and let a little more expertise take place and show a little more far-sightedness and seriosity in the budget debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call: Decrease on Pröll]] -Yes, a little less listen to howl, your uncle. I think to know that he is deadlyly offended because he has not been set up as a Federal Presidency candidate, but this simply has nothing to do with the budget creation. Don't fear yourself so much, but do steam in the next four weeks! I know you're not the fastest, but you've been doing extensive preparatory work in the Ministries all summer, and that's why it should be done now. So: Get with the budget – or get away with you as a minister! Work or stop, that's easy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] By the way – and I would also like to ask –: How do you imagine this when you say that country elections are a problem in budget creation? We have nine federal states. Does that mean that in the future we can expect you as a finance minister that there is no budget for every country election? Is this now, as it were, the fact that the federal government is going completely into the dependence on country elections. I think that's very necessary. You would actually be called upon to make a proper cash crash on the basis of this new data and then to present properly what the need for consolidation actually looks like, since we now certainly also have new budget data with the additional growth, which has also washed more money into the cash registers. And: What do we do with the room we have now? That is the most important political question! There's room for play, and what do we do with this room? What are we now doing with these opportunities, which are open up by the fact that – through the positive year 2010 – the goal of consolidation has already been achieved for 2011? We have scope, and it is a very important political question, in which areas are now being invested. Mr Finanzminister, I would like to make a suggestion to you: We Greens want to invest – and this is our goal – € 2 billion for young people, children, young people, young adults and young adults by 2014 and thus invest exclusively in future-related areas: in kindergartens, in schools, in colleges and in universities, as well as in Germany. We shall make this proposal to you. We now have this margin, and there is no reasonable argument to do so now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In Vienna, Mrs Marek – and unfortunately now she is gone – writes: “We are talking about education. the best in German.” I'd like to: Let's talk about education, but best in clear text, open and honest – no matter what language, but in clear text! What you are planning in the field of education means by 2014 that the young generation in particular is massively reduced. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Steiermark survey!]] Just in 2011 want Save more than 160 million € in total. I would not like to take another look at the situation in kindergartens, schools and universities, but would like to give you some examples. It is not only about education being a growth resource, but also about the quality of life of children and young people. My sons both go to a Vienna kindergarten. My younger son is 15 months old. He's sitting in a group with 16 children. Two people care for these children. They would never be able to care for 16 children in a group – changing children – and at the same time give them something of educational value. [[Abg. These are the children's friends! The children's friends! Not one with migration background!]] My older son is in a group of 25 children in one room. I don't think that's reasonable. I think the situation in our kindergartens is no longer tolerable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Strache:... Multikulti-enrichment!]] I don't know which kindergarten Your children visit, but I still find it a naughtiness that the situation of childcare depends on the postal code that there are no Austria-wide uniform quality standards, a fixed care relationship, and also a better, proper payment for the people who do a lot in this area. [[Abg. Dirty! Children's friends!]] [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] But You want to keep saving! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's go to the topic of school! – I now reach a lot of calls and letters from affected parents who say: We are extremely uncertain, in our school the gym is no longer rented! In the class of the second son, the support teacher is deleted. What does this mean for the quality of education and training? You're talking about school forms all day. - Yes, where? In part, there are not even ordinary rooms. There is not even the infrastructure that can be spent, learned or written in some form in the afternoon. So, there is no back and front, not only for quality, but also for spatial infrastructure. With this disgusting system of federalization of education, you may have two school administrators for a school building. When the sockets are drilled from one side, you have to call the waistband, because someone else is responsible for the other. There are such examples from Vorarlberg. Is it not crazy that we invest in walls, in administration – and not in our children?- Oh, my God! And then you want to keep saving at the schools?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the topic of vocational colleges: I'm not making a Styria election now, but I was on my way there, and there I was talking to young people and telling me that four applicants are coming to a high school study place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] For one place four applicants! One or one is taken. What are the others doing? [[Abg. Grosz: This was Mr. Kogler and Mrs. Rücker who talked to you! That's why the greens fly from the country day...!]] What is it like if there are young people who want to be trained but do not have a place to study? Beatrix Karl simply says that for budgetary reasons there is no longer any inside. Mr Finanzminister, once again our offer: 2 billion € in addition to education, for children, for young people, for young adults, direct investment in our future – now decide! [[Abg. Head: We already spend most of it now!]] – You spend less on it, I've read it to you before. € 162 million only for next year. [[Abg. Head:... we spend most of Europe per child!]] Good objection: Our colleague, Mr Kopf, says that Austria spends the most out of Europe per child. Okay – and where is the money going? [[Call to the ÖVP: That's another question!]] For district school councils, national school councils – that's another question, absolutely right! But then, finally, review this concrete position of the ÖVP, which is just walling and refuses to make structural reforms in the education system at last! Get rid of the district school councils, the state school councils, and realize a regional school administration and autonomy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Stand by the government agreement!]] Yes, this is in the government agreement – the next good objection! There I am again on the principle question: Who actually prevents you from putting that through? [[Call the ÖVP: You give the wrong answer!]] Now in the budget negotiations? [[Call the ÖVP: You give the wrong answer!]] [[Abg. Amon: You're late!]] These are obviously nine people that we already had today in the drawing, namely the heads of state, who simply say no to every shift in competence in the field of education, and be it so reasonable. They were probably also in the Administrative Reform Committee, in which everyone agreed – all political groups, all educational institutions, all experts. A wonderful paper has been prepared, which is still on hold, because the head of state simply No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We invest in walls instead of in our children, and there you have to start working with your national leaders once to make it change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the universities. – I cannot express it as beautifully as Van der Bellen always does, but I would like to repeat a sentence from him, namely: [[Abg. Street: Well...!]] There is a massive danger that, as far as university conditions are concerned, we will fall back into a state of the 1960s with devices that are now 25, 30 years old and will completely lose any connection, especially in the field of basic research. Every year we lose young scientific talents who go abroad. Austria is also losing the most valuable money invested in these persons. The situation is currently: Short-term contracts, subordinated research funding, call for aid from representatives of the economy who say quite clearly: We are wandering away when there is no more money in the field of research and science! – And what do we read about this in the Federal Financial Framework Act? – Reductions, reductions, including in the field of research. Once again our offer: 2 billion more. In particular, the research landscape would benefit greatly. But what is your answer to this new situation in which there is more room for manoeuvre in the budget? – Less tax pressure, you said yesterday, less pressure for new taxes. You have to do this now, you have to see through the glasses how you always argue. [[Abg. Head: There are more old taxes!]] So far, in every discussion, Minister of Finance Pröll has always spoken against any increase in capital taxes. This is your favorite hobby: To protect rich, no new taxes in the asset-related area. Even in the case of bank charges, the ÖVP will now be re-examined internally. That is, you're following your favorite hobby: the rich, the super rich and the atom lobby – thank you for the note! – to protect. [[Abg. Grosz: Atom lobby!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] You will benefit from this scope, which has now opened up to pursue your old strategy, namely to continue protecting the rich and to cut back on the poorest of the poor – in the care sector and in the disabled projects, for example. [[Abg. Grosz:... nuclear power station!]] But attacking the great privileges, you continue to reject, for example, the group tax privilege that does not exist across Europe, which causes banks such as Raiffeisen or Bank Austria, despite very high profits, to pay a single cent of taxes in Austria. As I said, a unique privilege that exists only in Austria! [[Abg. Grosz:... A bowl is planning a nuclear power plant in Voitsberg!]] We demand nothing but European normality in favour of corporations. Nothing else! Even that you still reject. You will continue to do so now and probably use these “sighs” – under quotation marks – these “budges” – as an additional €1.5 billion as an argument to do nothing in the asset-related area at all. Instead, you will be cut short in education. But we won't let that happen! We won't let that happen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have long had the need to discuss your definition of performance or performance with you, Mr Finanzminister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] What performance is it, in fact, to be the beneficiaries of a foundation? [[Abg. Krainer: Getting Born!]] What do you need to be able to do for it? What special skills must one have that one pays so much less taxes for the revenues than a normal savings account holder or a normal savings account holder? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What is it, then, that warrants a manager to earn €1.2 million a year and the company can deposit this tax as an operating expenditure? For this, a nurse works 50 years of her life – and I tell you: That doesn't last, 50 years, it's not going to be! What performance is that that one working hour is so different worth? Explain the difference to me – or go to a group of 16 winding children! Do it once! And then you say, They're supposed to deserve to be able to put this off the tax, that's performance! I think you should work on your concept of performance – work urgently on your concept of performance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I'm very curious, because: We sent the request last night, because we know that you are not the fastest, as you prove it to the budget time and again. There are 26 questions, you've had them in the resort since last night. I don't think there's any excuse now to not answer them in all the precision. If you already refuse to discuss content, clarity about how it should continue – we would like to discuss it – then perhaps you can tell us – at least a little – what you have done up to now. Very concrete: What work is there in your department so far? [[Abg. Stache: working circles!]] Are there any negotiations at ministerial level? Has there been negotiations at official level? Has there been any results? Have you already talked to your uncle and his colleagues, the heads of state, how this really is about federalism reform and administrative reform? When is the budget accompanying law actually presented? - Please have a specific date! That's a very simple question. – And what excuse is left to you now – now that you have four weeks and the new economic data are on the table – why you can’t submit a draft to us in time? We can still change one or another in the context of the budgetary negotiations. Parliament is still the sovereign. We still have until the end of the year. But what prevents you from submitting a draft now? That can't be so difficult! And explain to us how education is to continue! I have the greatest concern – and many people in Austria have the greatest concern – that now due to the pressure of savings – and that will be the same in the coming years until 2014, 2015 – exactly that generation of wheels that we can give nothing else in a globalised economy except education and training. That is our most important, foremost and most important task. But you refuse! That is why we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution today, because I do not believe that you are showing insight here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16651	To answer the urgent question, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). It's not supposed to exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e16674	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My colleagues on the government bank! High house! This is once again the opportunity, and that is good to discuss where we stand, which will bring the next weeks in budget planning for 2011 and the years beyond in the perspective of the consolidation process for Austria. And I should also like to stress once again that, in my view, it is of utmost importance to carry out the budgetary process as transparently as possible, with expertise and taking into account – this is an important point – the latest economic forecasts with maximum involvement of all relevant political forces. We expect for the next few days one of the biggest corrections in the field of forecasts, compared with past forecasts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It has done a lot in the last few weeks in economic development, and we will see how the perspective is set here. And once again this important detail also confirms that it was wise to wait and, with the new basis, to rely on the indispensable consolidation process in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You have four weeks now!]] [[Abg. Street: Twelve minutes answer the questions!]] It is a necessary, very expensive work that is being done in the resorts so that our country can have a solid foundation on which we can build, and what is now beginning to emerge, namely an upturn in the economy, can also be secured in the long term and permanently with a thorough preparatory work. I am also at my word. It will, of course, be a thorough political debate on the budget, on the budget roadmap which the Federal Government will present on 1 January. It will also be ensured with the budget speech and with the Federal Finance Act 2011. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: When?]] This is a task that we have to fulfil together – in respect of Parliament too. It will also be ensured that a sufficiently long period of assessment is available for the Budget Support Act. And all the measures are taken by the Ministry of Finance and the Government so that the Federal Finance Act 2011 and also the Budgetary Acts on 1 January 2011. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me emphasize something. The relevant draft laws – you know that very well – are to be prepared and decided by the Federal Government. However, the final decision is here in the House and we should not pretend that this procedure will not be ensured. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's why we need more time!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Send something!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All members of the Federal Government are required to join. The principle of unanimity in the Council of Ministers requires a complex process of preparation and negotiation, which is also to be carried out thoroughly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The preliminary work is under high pressure in the Ministries. I will then return to specific points in the concrete answer to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2011 budget must meet several requirements. First: It must serve to consolidate the state budget. The maximum expenditure limits laid down in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2011 to 2014 shall be complied with and the measures to be taken must be defined. As far as these measures are of a legal nature, they will be part of the Budgetary Accompaniment Act, which is at the same time as the 2011 budget. It will be presented to the House on 1 December. Secondly, the budget is used to secure the federal tasks, in particular those that have to secure a good future for our country. Education and research play a key role here. That is why the Federal Government, together, even now in the Federal Government's proposal, has formulated a clear priority in favour of education and research in the Federal Financial Framework Act. In this area, therefore, a less consolidation contribution needs to be made than in all other budget areas. And this is a clear, unmistakable signal that, despite consolidation and great challenges in reducing deficits and debt in the field of education and research, we want to remain offensive in the future. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Precondition – and let's not forget that! – for successful consolidation, economic growth will in particular be self-sustaining. This growth will give us the opportunity to negotiate, decide and take measures in a socially balanced manner despite consolidation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's about how Salzburg plays football!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on your questions. I would also like to say here that I am very grateful for the fact that the questions have already been put yesterday. Compared to last time: 190 questions, two hours, three hours of preparation. [[Abg. Krainer: Three!]] Now almost 30 questions a day before, so it is also possible for me to address the individual questions in more detail. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Greens are celebrating the feasts with you!]] Question 1: As I have pointed out several times, the federal constitution is the scale of my action. I don't have to get through to their compliance. On the contrary! I'll go all the way to her. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] So let me do it in detail! Since 1929, the Federal Constitution has provided for the Federal Government to last ten weeks before the end of the financial year, i.e. In October, the National Council had to submit to the National Council the draft federal financial law. This provision was substantially amended and supplemented by the 1986 budgetary reform, in particular with regard to the said deadline. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We already discussed that!]] First: The Constitution sets out an application monopoly of the Federal Government regarding the budget initiative. The text of the Constitution states: ‘The National Council shall decide on the Federal Finance Act; the deliberations shall be based on the draft of the Federal Government.’ Secondly, this is an important point: If the deadline is exceeded, the Federal Government will lose its application monopoly. I quote: "If the Federal Government has not submitted to the National Council the draft federal financial law in good time, a draft federal financial law can also be introduced into the National Council by requesting its members. If the Federal Government later submits the draft federal financial law” – quoted as “later presented” – “the National Council can decide to base its deliberations on this draft.” [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] These provisions continue to apply under the 2009 budgetary reform. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Follow the Constitution!]] Thus, the Constitution itself explicitly contains provisions in the event that the Federal Government considers a time-limit to be necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We challenge this need!]] Following this, the Federal Government may submit an application also after the time limit set out in the Constitution, but it is then up to the National Council to determine whether this draft government proposal will be dealt with. There can be no doubt at all that a draft of the Federal Government, submitted after the time limit, will also lead to a constitutional federal financial law if the Members base their discussions on this draft. The decision whether they want to do this is here in the House and not with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: (a document holding to the height) The Constitutional Court sees it a little different!]] The constitutional deadline for the draft budget is thus essentially a regulation which serves to delimit the Federal Government's own initiative monopoly from the national council's subsidiary right of application. [[Abg. Strache: The Constitutional Court sees this differently!]] As far as the budget accompanying law is concerned, the Constitution does not provide for any time limit. [[Abg. Strache: The President of the Federal Republic and the President of the Constitutional Court see this differently!]] Since many basic decisions for the coming years will be to be made in the budget accompanying law, there is no doubt, even in the strictest view, that the Federal Government is moving on the ground of the Constitution. [[Abg. Kickl: Less jurisprudence, more economy!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Your interpretation!]] Of course, I am also aware that some constitutional judges believe that we would not act in accordance with constitutional requirements, but – and this is important – there are also important other voices. Professor Hengstschläger notes on this issue in the standard work of Austrian constitutional law, the constitutional comment by Karl Korinek and Michael Holoubek – I can quote again... [[Abg. New builder: The house and court judge...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a great expert! Congratulations!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Mrs Glavischnig, no cause for unrest! [[Calls to the Greens.]] I quote constitutional lawyers. The statements in the literature that the Federal Government then, if they have this obligation...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17050	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17065	Mr Westenthaler, back to the Constitution and the facts! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you call the expert?! That hasn't happened all over the world! Go and celebrate your birthday again!]] The comments in the literature that if the Federal Government does not comply with this obligation in good time, it cannot be accepted by constitutional law. The Constitution itself lays down the legal consequences of the Federal Government's sentence. Neither there nor at any other place in the budgetary constitution is expressly or implicitly ordered that the Federal Government should withdraw. Other relevant comments will also follow. And if you see well-known publications, it also supports the process of the Federal Government and our arguments. In addition, I would like to point out once again that many of the budget proposals have not been introduced in time because of various challenges, mostly because of elections, and we are doing so because of an extraordinary economic crisis that is particularly demanding us. On question 2: I would like to stress once again: ==References====External links== In October 2010 no draft federal financial law 2011 was submitted, then it has a single constitutional consequence. The National Council can do what it did before the 20th century. It is not allowed to present a draft itself on October 1. That is what the Constitution says and it is for me – and I think it is for all of us – a common measure of our actions. The Federal Government has informed the High House from the beginning – from the beginning, I also attach great importance to it – very early on about the planned procedure – the Federal Chancellor and I – in the budget creation for 2011. We have already informed the National Council at the end of June that we cannot keep the budget plan from our point of view, because of the depth of the crisis, because of the economic forecasts we have to wait for, because of the large package to be handled. This was already announced very openly and transparently by both government leaders in June. The current economic developments confirm our process and we are waiting eagerly for the detailed figures of the economic researchers at the end of this week. We expect revised economic forecasts in the next few days and will of course also reassess the question of necessary consolidation, which is indispensable despite better growth, and will also develop the detailed measures quickly and jointly in the Federal Government. Question 3: The Federal Government plans to decide on the draft Federal Finance Act 2011 in such a timely manner that it will be sent to the House on 1 January 2011. ==References====External links== The government will therefore do all it can to ensure that the Federal Finance Act takes place in time for 1. January 2011 can enter into force and therefore no budget provisor will be necessary. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Ha!]] All necessary measures will be publicly explained and discussed in detail as part of the assessment procedure for the necessary budget accompanying law. All affected groups – as well as all political parties – are given sufficient opportunity to evaluate the measures, propose improvements and then decide in an orderly decision-making process here in the house. In addition, I am of course prepared to present an interim report on the current status of the 2011 budget and the consolidation programme here during the plenary week in October. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Very reasonable!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: An expert from stallion racket!]] Question 4: The idea that the Federal Government is currently inactive is wrong. The entire budget process, not only for 2011, but for the next few years, has already begun at the beginning of this year. I am well aware – and you know it – that the budget process is also integrated and embedded in a European corset. We went to the ECOFIN Council on 2 October. an excessive deficit in Austria in December 2009; Austria was invited to start consolidation in 2011 and go below 3 percent by 2013. This also requires from the Council's point of view an average annual fiscal adjustment of a three-quarters percentage point of GDP in 2011 to 2013. – European Union, December 2009, perspective for Austria. ==References== In January 2010, the Federal Government agreed to anchor the budget targets accordingly by 2013 in the context of the Stability Programme decision-making. In line with the EU's targets, the domestic budget deficit – and we have agreed on it – will again be reduced and reduced to 3 percent of the new debt by 2013. In concrete terms, the target value is 2.7 percent. During a discussion on the Austrian stability programme on 16 February. In April 2010, the ECOFIN Council also called on Austria to submit a programme supplement in time for the evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures under the deficit procedure, in which it will consider progress in the implementation of the Council recommendations referred to in Article 126(7) of the second subparagraph of Article 126(2). It also sets out the consolidation strategy, which will be necessary to make progress in correcting the excessive deficit, with a certain degree of detail. The national targets for the budget process, even by 2014, were also met in spring 2010. They were all present. I wonder that this fact is being negated. ==References====External links== The Federal Finance Framework Act for the years 2010 to 2014 was discussed here in the Hohe Haus in May 2010 and was also decided and the Federal Government's strategy report was taken note of. The cards are currently detailed on the table as never before. The Federal Financial Framework Act gives the guideline, sets out the cover. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: In a beautiful frame can be a picture!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We need content! ... without content is empty wash!]] Here it was decided in a quality, legal quality, as no federal government had previously been bound to discuss very specific measures. The maximum expenditure limits for all departments are thus legally binding by 2014. All Members know exactly because they have also decided that the savings projects for the next few years will be implemented in concrete terms per ministry. And, of course, we will now also discuss the individual measures together and then present the whole package to Parliament. [[Abg. Bucher: That's exactly what this is all about!]] Question 5: The federal budgetary reform has substantially changed the legal requirements for the budgetary process. The centre now has a multiannual budget planning with binding expenditure ceilings. This leads to a higher level of planning security at all levels. This applies to the overall budget planning of the federal government, but also to the individual departments. Their budget planning is no longer carried out from year to year, but can cover a medium-term horizon, which is an important improvement not least in view of the multi-annual projects that exist in different ministries. The medium-term expenditure ceilings will be rolled forward annually by another year. For example, the Federal Financial Framework 2011 to 2014 was decided this year. Next spring we will discuss and decide on the Federal Financial Framework 2012 to 2015 in the government and here in the Hohe Haus. As I have already pointed out on Question 4, the rules on the resorts are already being applied by the legislator. The Federal Financial Framework has set upper limits of expenditure by the legislator, thereby also bringing in a clear limit for all departments. As a result, there are implicit savings targets for the individual departments, which can no longer be penetrated here even without a legislative decision. Questions 6 and 7: As I have already pointed out, there are already legal limits on expenditure limits for the resorts. There is therefore no need to negotiate the setting of such expenditure limits, neither at ministerial level nor at official level. This too is a clear difference from previous budgetary negotiations. It is up to the officials of the respective department to define appropriate measures to comply with the respective expenditure limits resulting from the Federal Financial Framework Act. In our view, therefore, negotiations at civil service level are no longer necessary. Question 8: ==References== September 2010 – you can see how seriously the Federal Government is doing the work – the representatives of the federal government met with those of the countries, cities and communities. These discussions were preceded by a decision of the national conference, which states are prepared to enter into talks on an Austrian Stability Pact. The aim of the meeting was to: September was to prepare the ongoing discussions at the political level. I assume that these negotiations will also give timely results in the coming month. The main objective of the Austrian Stability Pact is to provide budget targets for the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities and to provide effective sanctions mechanisms to effectively support compliance with the budget targets. Finally, budgetary coordination is an essential aspect. The new Stability Pact for Austria should provide for the time when which information is available to the other local authorities in order to ensure a coordinated procedure for all levels of government in budgetary policy issues. On the question 9: As I have already said, we are in a ongoing discussion process on the measures to be taken from 2011 onwards. However, decisive proposals on cuts are not yet available from the Federal Ministers. I therefore cannot give any concrete information on this either. Question 10: I have already promised that a sufficient period of assessment will be available for the Budget Support Act. The date of the review will therefore be based on the availability of this sufficient period of time and parliamentary treatment for entry into force on 1 January. ==References====External links== On the question 11: We strive to decide on all measures to comply with the Federal Financial Framework by 2014 as early as this year, because the expenditure framework for the coming years is already set up by law and can only be changed by the legislator. It is therefore binding on the Federal Government, and we are also focusing our planning on it. In addition, the necessary consolidation excludes taking action with one-time character. On the contrary: We need medium-term structural reforms which guarantee and secure the necessary long-term savings. A too short view horizon would be anything but useful. But, of course, this view does not change the fact that in the next few years we will be required to take and react in the short term, in all cases due to the economic development. However, the federal financial framework and the expenditure-side consolidation must not be shaken. Questions 12 and 13 as well as questions 15 to 18: Recently, especially under my responsibility as Minister of Finance, in close and close cooperation with the ministers Schmied and Karl and the current Commissioner for the EU, Hahn, many measures have been launched to improve the training of our children and young people. I would also like to mention examples which are often forgotten but which have been the right answers. In the area of school: Implementing the reduction of the maximum number of students to the target value 25. This measure to reduce the maximum number of school students to 25 in compulsory schools and in the AHS sub-level made it possible to achieve a significant improvement in the care relationship in the classes. This was also the aim of reducing the opening and division figures which were achieved at the upper level. A total of the following resources were made available in the 2009 and 2010 budgets, Mrs Glawischnig's compulsory schools: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] 2009: almost 3,000 full employment equivalents of €155 million; 2010: 3 900 full employment equivalents and already €206 million. Let us not ignore these facts! Secondary and secondary schools: Increase in volume from € 39 million in 2009 to € 51 million in 2010. It is a positive dynamic with the right measures in education policy, which have a good impact on children and for which we have also demonstratedly taken money. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Lap.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why does the ÖVP place: No container classes!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Further expansion of school day care. Teacher resources were financed for school afternoon care in the form of individual and supervised learning time. Additional resources were provided for quality seal schools, i.e. for schools with particularly high-quality afternoon services. The budget also includes a significant increase from 2009 to 2010. Extension of language promotion courses for children with non-German mother tongue: In 2009 and 2010, around 400 full employment equivalents were made available, which means approximately €21 million. Right and important to improve the quality of education for children with non-German mother tongues. We have introduced a new form of organisation for vocational schools. We have carried out the implementation of the “teaching with Matura” and have taken money for it. I could continue the list of examples for a long time, but the answer would go beyond the scope of my speaking time. Research and Science: Austria has also reached the top of the world in the expenditure on research and development. For the current year 2010, Statistics Austria – which is not ours in the Ministry of Finance – expects a research rate of 2.76 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Austria is thus at the level of the USA, Denmark and still in front of Germany, England and the Netherlands. Let us not always talk about our successes small, ladies and gentlemen. These are the figures, facts and data. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Austria has managed this development at a rapid pace: From 1.94 percent in 2000, the R & D rate rose by about 0.8 percentage points to expected, as I have already mentioned, 2.76 percent in 2010. The government's share of R & D expenditure is expected to be 1.13 percent of GDP in 2010 and is thus undisputed at the world's top. No other nation in the world invests so much in research and development – in terms of share, compared to what is made available in the respective countries. We are therefore very successful in this area due to important and correct political, financial and economic policy changes in recent years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the universities: A total of €2.8 billion was available to universities in 2010. In 2009 it was €2.5 billion – an increase of €300 million from 2009 to 2010. The average university budget of 2009 and 2010 was about 17 percent higher than the 2007/2008 average budget. The increase in this period of comparison – 2007/2008 compared with 2009/2010 – by 17 percent shows that we do not let universities hang, but also made the right decisions in this area. New building of the University of Economics: The political decision on the new construction of the University of Economics took place in 2009. The Economic Union shall be included in the programme of the BIG. The cost of construction, ladies and gentlemen, is 420 million €. The facility will amount to approximately €42 million. These are investments in the future of our students in an important sector, in the economic university, for the location Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's like the grass...!]] This too will be kept silent: This is the biggest investment in the field of universities for decades. LKH-Universitätsklinikum Graz 2020: We are also setting a clear trend and a clear sign. [[Abg. Grosz: Hermann Schützehöfer, eh clear!]] With this important university clinic in Graz, the Federal Government has successfully launched a large project with Hermann Schützenhofer, the Styrian friends. [[Abg. Grosz: With Sagittarius...! All the shooters! The Sagittarius family!]] The total cost of this project is € 477 million. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on question 14, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: The budgetary reform of the Federal Government, which has been decided unanimously in this House, has introduced the statutory upper limits applicable in the medium term for the federal government. The purpose of this system is to keep expenditure on a consistent basis and at the same time help to stabilise the economy. In view of the variable nature of economic activity, i.e. anti-cyclically oriented, such a stabilisation contribution is achieved. This means that more money can be spent in the event of poorer economic conditions, but in the event of a better economy, the saved money will actually be saved and cannot be spent immediately for other purposes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This intelligent management system for the federal budget, unanimously adopted by the High House, is now also a source of international attention. This was the case last week in Austria. In September 2010, at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee, i.e. the Economic Policy Committee of the European Union, together with Sweden and the Netherlands, presented as the best-practice example of modern budgetary taxation. We're discussing this at the ECOFIN. I know you don't like to hear this and close the ears before it: A budget law was unanimously adopted here – it was unanimously adopted here – which provides for Furore internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am also proud that this unanimous decision in the Federal High House has made it a recognised pioneer of modern budget management and international recognition. This new system contributes to a better budget balance for the better economy. I assume that we will already achieve a corresponding dividend of this budgetary reform in the form of a lower budget deficit in the Federal Republic of Germany this year, but we must also add: It will still be high enough for us to continue at an ambitious level. This year we will be very much above the known limit of 3 per cent of gross domestic product and in the coming years we will have to develop our budget step by step towards a balanced budget. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now on question 19: We want to generate new growth for Austria. Growth and savings – and only then taxes – must be the motto, because every tenth percent creates prosperity and jobs. We can do this if we use modern concepts and innovative ideas to set economic impulses and, from my point of view, drive the greening of the tax system. Climate and environmental protection and the safeguarding of natural resources are not only a political, moral obligation for the Federal Ministry of Finance, but a question of economic reason and economic necessity. Especially in the greening of the tax system, I see a great opportunity that we should also benefit from in the sense of creating new growth. Only if we deal wisely and sustainably with our environment today can we secure it for future generations in the long term. We are therefore committed to ecologizing the tax system in order to force environmental protection, to manage rising CO2 taxes, as well as to contributing to the budget and to organising free space for offensive measures. This is an ecological tax reform as we imagine it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Questions 20 to 23: The Federal Government has agreed that, in addition to the main consolidation on the expenditure side, a revenue contribution to consolidation will also be made. We all agree, I think, that a broad acceptance of consolidation measures must be sought. Such acceptance requires that all contribute to fiscal consolidation in line with their economic performance, without affecting the public's willingness to perform. I have already repeatedly made it clear to the public that there is no taboo for me in this debate. Everything will be tested – everything will be tested! I therefore do not exclude anything at the moment. We will conduct the corresponding negotiations in the Federal Government, presenting a balanced package to the House, which is mainly on the expenditure side and ensuring that the income side of Austria’s population is not taxed at the expense of an increase in the economy and in the case of rising tax revenue. On questions 24 to 26: The social balance in the consolidation measures is very important to the Federal Government and will have to be taken into account in the preparation of an overall package accordingly. Firstly, the Ministers of Trade, in this case the Social Ministers, are on the train to present proposals for consolidation. Finally, allow me to make a fundamental comment. [[Abg. Grosz: To nuclear power plants!]] I understand that it is tempting for the opposition to ask one aspect after another whether one can or cannot exclude this or that, but I would like to say clearly: The discussion of individual aspects, as important as it may be from the point of view of those who may be concerned, makes no sense at present. This is a coherent and balanced package, including recognition of substantially changed economic data that we expect in the next few days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] The Federal Government will present this package in good time, so that the 2011 budget can be discussed in the House this year and with 1. On January 1, 2011, the budget for 2011, the budget accompanying legislation, the consolidation package and also the parts of the administrative reform that we will decide with the countries. They can enter into force.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17419	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with an overall speaking time of 25 minutes per group. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17448	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Now he's out soon, the election campaign!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, it's never too late to reverse! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes, just now!]] You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have now spoken of the new data you expect in the next few days. But as long as you, I think, have not been able to wait, because in individual newspapers, which are perhaps not so far away from your sympathy, you have already given double-sided interviews and annoncens, according to which there is a new situation. And if there is a new situation, we could re-examine the question of reversing. In fact, this new situation offers opportunities for you to go back to the path of the breach of the constitution and the electoral fraud and return to constitutional conformity and give pure wine – and this should be a special concern to you as a low-Austrian. ==References== ==References== October is still time. And if you and all the others in your ministry have worked so superfine since January of this year – you have just said that again; the officials there are quite wise. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Since January?]] I have just seen the head of the section sitting in the back there, perhaps we should ask him, as in the committee, if the Secretary of State and you don't know any more, then he can always talk. Perhaps we ask him in plenary what he has to say about how far the work has progressed. I think that if he's honest, he'd say, Yes, we are in a position to send the Minister a letter on 22 May. October – it's about 22nd. October – here stands and man's enough, as you say, to hold the microphone in your hand and say: I'm giving a budget speech now! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What's your name?]] That's not so difficult – is it? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: For him already!]] You should just do that! Indeed, there are clues – the clues of conversion not only come from the Bible, but there are other writings – to the 22nd century. October, for example, those to whom you are sworn and have made your oath, namely in the Austrian federal constitution. If you no longer have the Bible’s faith, then at least stick to the federal constitution! That wouldn't be so bad. That also strengthens the backbone. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] If you're a little wacky on your legs, you can stop there. The Constitution is clear! And it really is not to be seen that when you answer a urgent question – this is a parliamentary instrument – you give lessons from the government bank down to the fact that your planned approach is constitutional. We always have the same fight. But if you're already straining it, I'll tell you again: Öhlinger, Mayer, Funk and others say clearly: This does not correspond to the rules of the Constitution! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's an opinion! Usually they are...!]] This is absolutely clear and clear at this point, and so on. Thank God the President of the National Council here is also clear and says – referring to the legislative service – that what you announce and plan here corresponds to non-compliance with the Constitution, and further: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] It's out of the question! – What do you want? Do you want to deal with the President now, or what? I can't do that! This is Parliament. They are committed to the Constitution and cannot explain to Parliament that everything is different. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] In reality, this is a resignation speech because you provide enough good reasons for it, but not a forward strategy! I have expected something else to happen today, even if you already have a billion and a half more, even in the following year – but we are still coming to talk about it. You'd have to be able to carry on more. But no, you don't even help the Federal President again. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has also said quite clearly that this is not an discretionary decision. Because this is the case and because the chairman of the Committee on Budgets looks at me so confidently – otherwise we understand each other excellently – I have to say: Today, the Chairman has somehow said that we should perhaps talk about the Roadmap. That's what I asked: What is the “roadmap”, what is it? - Now I'm on it, and I'm on leave: This 'roadmap' debate will at least not exist with me and with the Green Group! I would also invite the other opposition groups to go into this question. Clearly, it is about changing the National Council’s budget “map” agreed here by five parties and still valid. I'm sure you're not! Last autumn, we discussed this “roadmap” for weeks – even to my annoyance. For weeks! My colleagues in the budget have been constantly swirling around and have invited us somewhere – mostly to them in the club; we have gone up there – and we have agreed on this “roadmap” after very long discussions. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The signature below!]] And this is true now too! He wears the signature of the clubmen, and you can't steal yourself from it without further notice. Only once is it clear that in the past year you yourself have believed that the Constitution must be respected. In the meantime, you have obviously gone on a different path. The SPÖ is not much better either. [[Abg. May. Worm: Well, after!]] You play here at this game, obviously because you do not believe that after these country elections you will enforce what you form each other at your party meetings: Rich tax up, down, over. – This is obviously the background. And as evidence shows, the red majority in Vienna City Hall preferred the following procedure: There is a request for special meeting – which must be fulfilled, but within certain time-limits – on the impact of the federal budget on the Vienna budget. What did the Social Democratic majority do there? It shall start this special meeting on the last possible date, on the last day. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: On the last day!]] And do you know when it is? – Two days after the Wiener Landtagswahlen. [[Abg. Krainer: 12. October!]] This is pathetic, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's really not okay!]] [[Abg. Krainer:... be serious discussion!]] This is the best proof that you know very well that it will be the same again, as it is: that you really don't fight for what you're running for now in the election struggles, namely to finally fight for a fairer tax system. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] You just don't do that! [[Abg. Grosz:... cowardly, brave government!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] They have contributed to the fact that millions of inheritances in Austria are now tax-free. That's with your work! The Constitutional Court has published a knowledge of the reform of inheritance tax. It was a clear task to reform them. However, they have in fact worked with the ÖVP to ensure that nothing is done at all. Now the national leaders Häupl and Voves run through the landscape and explain a seven-point program for more tax justice. [[Abg. Krainer: Eight! Eight! Eight points!]] That's totally unbelievable! This is no longer the case, and that is why you are obviously under one ceiling in this entire budget delay with the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] The whole treatment here in the house is also similar: The last time the FPÖ questions were not answered because they were 190, and that was too much. A parliamentary request from the Greens, for which it had been for two months, has given the very same answers, which, although it has been said, was two months' time. There, too, one has been taught how to best describe the breach of the constitution. This is not the case, and that is why we will not let that happen to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you, Mr Federal Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler, do not achieve this, then that is clear! Whoever does not present a budget – that is your central task to Parliament – is actually ready for withdrawal, and that is you. If you don't bring this together until then, you either don't want to or you can't – in the best case both, then you'd only be right and double retreating mature. That's not how it is! That is why, but with this argument, we will vote in favour of another group's motion for a distrust. But now it's still on the matter: If we are already in a favourable position to have more revenue, as you say now, then it is all the more incomprehensible when you are driving this indifferent savings course. The universities are certainly a loser, and at the schools you have nothing good. You are also not ready for any organizational reform, as we hear, and it even threatens you to go back to your knees before the heads of state. You don't want to be destroyed by the heads of state, you explain. In all the debt debate, everything goes to the wrong level, and you will really be required to finally represent the federal interests accordingly, so that we can get out of the grip of this federalist folklore that costs us billions. But you're not strong enough to stand up to it. There's the problem! There is the same situation in kindergartens: There's nothing to come. Look, in the Federal Republic of Germany – and there it is also saved – you can believe Mrs. Merkel and the Christian-Democratic-liberal coalition there with certainty – you spend €13 billion on education. That's 1.3 billion for a factor of 1: 10, and you want us to hang out the cheerful savings. It just doesn't go together! I would also like to tell you why you are weakening your tax revenue at one point. You want to continue to demonstrate your social incompetence there and make legalized tax relief aid for super-rich people. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] It fits in with the fact that the banks should pay nothing more. It's already going on: Bartenstein and Co. So that's not going to happen: talk big first and then let the banks run.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17726	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e17757	Well, the problem is that in the course of these urgent greens, I have become tired and tired, because nothing just came new. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Nothing new came from the Minister!]] We heard that when we met at the special meeting. I expected that there were proposals, I thought there was at least a demolition of a budget draft, but it was actually the same pity and lamentation as we had at the special meeting here the last time. [[Abg. Strache: Did Mr Jarolim write the speech?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... bad democrats...!]] In fact, you should have said in your statement that we are right because we have now done what the opposition called for last year, namely to wait for the economic forecast to come. This has now proved to be true, because you have been listening to Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, which is a prognosis that will not meet what we have expected, but rather another forecast that will have an impact on budget creation. The second is – also something we did not think of two months ago or a month ago – that revenue is such that it will also have an impact that there may be more money for future investment. At 60 : 40 will not change anything: on the one hand, save on socially just expenditure and on the other hand, on socially just revenue, as we always put it. So it turned out to be right. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... everything is fine!]] I do not know any legal provision that states that the opposition is forbidden to present its own budget proposals. None of the three opposition parties have done so yet! I have to say that I do not mean individual demands, because the individual demands are not the decisive one, but the networking, the final sum, what the name budget deserves, where they say: Expenditure side, revenue side, economic effects, employment effects – all this is networked in the sum. That means networked thinking, in fact, means that one also tries to do so in this regard. Of course, you will not lose a certain level if you do not agree to do this work too. You decided not to do it. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That's ridiculous!]] What surprises me – my social-democratic follow-up speakers will then address many points in detail – is that today we do not address another aspect that is being discussed in the public, not all day long, namely, so-called savings in Parliament. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That's ridiculous!]] It surprises me because this discourse – even with half the number of Members in the National Council – is also going with half the number of members of the Federal Government, without the Federal Council and so on – means that there are not only fewer Members, but that it is at the expense of the citizens, that other constituencies are then to have fewer citizens' contacts, that what has grown to the House as a working parliament can be fulfilled less. [[Abg. New builder: We don't have a government either if the opposition makes the budget!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] That surprises me! In fact, in this form, as Mr Klubobmann Strache said, reducing from 183 to 100, and as Mr Klubobmann Bucher said, at all, reducing to half, that half of your two factions are unnecessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger]] That's exactly what they say! Now you should come to think slowly, for everyone should ask himself who is meant and who Mr Klubobmann Strache and Mr Klubobmann Bucher can give up on, because that was the statement they made. [[Abg. Stache: After you, for example! For example, Mr Klubobmann! You are a good example!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] I can't give up on anyone, and I don't think Mr. Klubobmann's head either. The Greens left it a bit open, they said that this is not the issue now – but that was it. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, go out and tell me who your group you do not want to see here, and Mr Klubobmann Strache can do the same! This is an anti-democracy discourse that you're actually conducting here. [[Abg. Bucher:... Chief of State...!]] It's in the background! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] To this end, I have to tell you: If you see the day-to-day work plans of the members of the government, it's a joke to expect that half of those we have can do. When we discuss the parliamentary model that we now have – that of the government groups at a level with the Federal Government, that is, Parliament/government at a level that they participate in the legislative process, participate in the paperwork, participate here in the House – if you want the opposition to the majority of the laws in the committees here as before and then the decisions are taken together, and if you say: [[Abg. Strache:... then Mr. Jarolim wrote, the speech!]] All this is not worth anything, we do not bring in anything anyway, these are just formal decisions!, then, I have to say, I wonder, honestly, because this is actually an acceptance of your duties and it is somewhere a disregard of the wish of voters to get in touch with Members as much as possible, because they would have larger constituencies and they would drive twice as much if they were going around at all. [[Abg. Grosz:... Contact person! Mr. Klubobmann, Mr. Faul was also...!]] If you feel that someone in your group does not meet the expectations, then replace him, Mr. Klubobmann, or – even better – the voters do this and reduce their share here in the house. That would be better. But I have to tell you, I don't understand. If you look at the infrastructure of the house – we have no legislative service; the German Bundestag has a much better infrastructure than the Austrian Parliament – and if you want it to really be a working parliament, because you realize that because of its membership in the European Union, the tasks here have grown when you see and know all of this, you have to go in the opposite direction. Then, in fact, the service, the communication... – You can also put yourself in bed, do nothing and wait until the election day comes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Double! Double!]] It may be that this is the premise there. [[Abg. Strache: Up to 300 Members!]] Anyway, I say it's a discourse against democracy. This also concerns other levels, not just the level here in the house. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 500 Members!]] You can put it down, you can also say that populism is not supposed to know any limits, it should also question democracy from me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Then Set You are here and you are at least interested in the discussion and do not go to the next best call, which is being made here, in this form, because I believe that democracy, of course, also has its prize. We had already here – between 2000 and 2006 – a finance minister in the government who made proposals regarding the handling of the Ministry of Finance and Parliament, which he presented as proposals for savings with less democratic effect, against which we opposed. I say to you: I am in favour of thinking here about efficiency, about double-tracks, as everywhere else. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Budget shift! Budget shift is the subject! Budget shift!]] If any of this is meated, if you're just about the short-term APA message, then make it You continue, but don't give us any more talk about democratic quality, about democratic culture, about parliamentarianism, about the self-esteem of Parliament, otherwise will be [[Abg. Bookbooker: Budget shift!]] You cannot really resist the mood that is partly in the population and which is at times rightly linked to much criticism. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that actually the farewell speech?]] I can already prophesy this to you today. Therefore, I tell you, you should reconsider these positions, also in the discussions on savings and budget recovery.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18060	Mr Dr. Stummfully has now come to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18082	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am actually very grateful to my previous speaker, Mr Cap, for his contribution to the discussion. In contrast to the previous opposition speakers, he has brought much more color and liveliness into the discussion – so far, it has actually been very fattened. Mr Cap, thank you very much! But still: Congratulations to the Green Group, congratulations at the time of urgent question! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] The timing must succeed: They will be introduced on that day on which all newspapers have the authors that economic growth is expected to be not 1.2, but 2% next year. A confirmation of our procedure. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] It is time to wait for the latest forecasts, because if a budget builds up to 1.2% economic growth or to 2%, I would like to be able to play the piano, Mr. Cot! So in so far as: Congratulations! An excellent timing, better it couldn't have been! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Brosz, because you look so skeptical, I really have to say one thing: With our support, this government has always said: After the biggest economic and financial crisis in the last 80 years, where the uncertainty is as great as it has never been, it would be wise to say that we are waiting for the latest forecasts. – Now we have them, now we can assume from the basis of a better forecast. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well, then it's going to come!]] This forecast also shows one thing: the successful economic and financial policies of recent months. Congratulations, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is an intelligent financial policy for me: not just to raise taxes, but to generate more taxes through growth policy, ladies and gentlemen. Intelligent financial policy means a policy for growth and employment for me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Apropossible employment: The fact that Austria has the lowest unemployment among 27 EU countries – Mr Kogler, you know – is a success of this policy, ladies and gentlemen. Jobs are our priority. And this successful policy is ultimately due to the changes that this government has made under this Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Finance. Thank you many times, Minister of Finance! This is intelligent financial policy for me. One thing you have to say, of course: This philosophy – we put in growth-enhancing amounts, namely €6 billion: 3 billion was the amount of the great tax reduction to strengthen purchasing power, 3 billion growth packages, so a total of 6 billion, some of which we are now getting the money back now through higher tax revenues due to growth – and these two principles – first: more taxes by growth policy and not by new and tax increases; and second, who saves more, needs less taxes – are gold-right! [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't watch!]] These are golden rules for financial policy, my honour. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Bucher: Well, we'll see!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What about the unis?]] – You know that, too, my colleague Bucher: This is really intelligent financial policy! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but at the Unis the ceiling falls down!]] Another point: Let us remember what has always come from the opposition to terror reports – all this will not be true and so on. In reality, it was still generally better than the opposition predicted. And one more thing: We do not fall into Euphoria anyway! I say quite openly, this figure, which has become known today, this higher growth rate, is undoubtedly a success of a successful economic policy, and yet we are not euphoric, because we are not an island of the Blessed. [[Abg. Bucher: I thank the economy!]] What we can do, we do according to best knowledge and conscience, and success speaks for us, but of course we also know that we are not an island of the Blessed. Of course, we also know which risks lie around in the USA, where the billions of economic programmes are now running out and there is no sustainability in the upturn. We have heard what is happening in Ireland today. There are experts who say Ireland will be more dramatic than Greece. And we know, thirdly, that the entire financial economy has continued to decouple itself from the real economy. So loud risks. That is to say, there is no reason to be warned, but still joy over the successful course, joy over a policy that has ultimately led us to have the lowest unemployment in Europe. This is a successful policy, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue this policy with the support of hopefully many political groups in this House. Mr Kogler, I have to say honestly – and I have said it the last time – that I am also on the road a lot and I am also often critical, but I have never heard a criticism, namely the criticism: Why is the budget speech not on 22. ==References====External links== December? – People say: ==References== That's right, that's all right. Quality takes precedence over the schedule.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18233	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18254	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Somehow I have been disappointed by this debate today, because I would have assumed that something has changed since the last special session. [[Abg. Scheibner: We too!]] Unfortunately, this is not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Standstill!]] Once again, it is confirmed that a constitutional break is taking place especially because of the election in Vienna. This breach of constitution is confirmed by the guardian of the Constitution, Mr President Holzinger, by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and by the President of this House, and I would point out here that the President could have done something more to bring the National Council against this decision of the Government. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] The FPÖ, of course, supports the distrust that is being put in place because of the breach of the Constitution, and we are not going to negotiate “roadmaps” for the next time. That is not at all possible! Our “roadmap” is set out in the Constitution. We are also pleased with the latest data that economic growth is developing positively accordingly. That's nice. It would be bad if we were to regret that. But that is no reason not to present the budget in good time. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... maybe waiting for January! ... more reliable data!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: In 2012...!]] It is said, Mr Krainer, that this is always said, that I would badden the state finances. This is not necessary, because the figures speak for themselves. €175 billion in debt, liabilities of €125 billion, ASFINAG and ÖBB debts. Interest services make up €8 billion. These are horror numbers for someone like me who comes out of business. It is not enough, Minister of Finance, that you say that by the year 2013, we will have a deficit of 3 percent, because this is still a deficit of €7 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you a tax advisor?]] Greek conditions threaten us, unfortunately God! And it will come about that, as in Greece, others will take our decisions. Our descendants, the youth will run out of all this poverty! It's only about hole up and hole in politics. We have no reserves to invest in the field of social security. If you remember: Recently, an article in the “Kronen Zeitung” was that the state’s pension contributions will rise to double. Who is to take over these costs? Mrs. Glavischnig, your €2 billion is a wonderful demand, but we can't pay for it at the best. Why did it develop like this? – The rulers have always made deficits in the past, there have been no setbacks in good years, it has been spent more and more than taken. Mismanagement has been tolerated, especially in the near-state area, such as the AUA, the ÖBB, Skylink and many others. The greed was great, so that even in the public sector was speculated, and the ÖBB, the country of Lower Austria, various communities are pre-aggregated and have speculated money. Longest reforms in health and administration have not been carried out, a state reform, redundancies et cetera have not taken place. Party interest is always in the public interest – this is the sadness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is no courage to make right decisions. For me, Mr Auer, Switzerland is certainly an example in the field. In 2009, Switzerland made a plus of 2 billion in the state budget. Switzerland's debt ratio is 35 percent of GDP, with us 70 percent. The tax rate in Switzerland is 28 percent, with us 41 to 43 percent. The pension system in Switzerland is fine. The Swiss railway takes on profits. The Swiss did not have to support the Greeks, and the euro also does not need to support the Swiss people by their contributions. How it looks about the Federation financially describes a book by Mirko Kovats, someone from your side! [[Abg. Großruck: What is it?]] ‘Thesis 19: As a company, Austria would be a clear insolvency because the repayment of debts from the ordinary business is not possible within a reasonable time. The revenue is not even sufficient to cover current expenditure and is not at all available for payment of debt: If this were the case in a business, anything other than the immediate path to the bankruptcy judge would be punishable.” – That’s how it looks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mirko Kovats has faithfully applied these balance sheet figures to his company and has reached the following conclusion: [[Abg. Scheibner: Tax increase!]] “It would be a nightmare” – he says – “and would mean the immediate end of the company. So if I were acting like our politicians, that would probably bring me ten years in prison.” – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! The 20th thesis is very interesting, which concerns households: “No Austrian private budget would ever be as responsible as our politicians have been for years. Based on a budget income of 4 000 euros net per month, this would mean 4 738 euros of expenditure, 72 000 euros of debt and liabilities for loans of an additional 66 340 euros. Any private person would realize that it can’t continue like this.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18393	Mr Grosz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18415	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig, I cannot spare you an accusation, namely the accusation that this urgent request to the Minister of Finance for your part constitutes a special contribution to hypocrisy. You, Mrs Glawischnig, have a deputy mayor in Graz, namely Mrs Lisa Rücker, who just a few days ago has been drawn up with the tax and savings plans of the Federal Government, but also the Styrian state government, which has announced in a city with a debt of €1.4 billion and federal billing court reports that the tax performance has long since no longer corresponds to the performance of the public sector – according to the Federal Court report on the financial performance of the city of Graz – that, of course, she has no problem at all with increasing the fees, the charges in the city once again, burdening the people in that city once again, just to answer the broken budget she has with ÖVP mayor Nagl – € 1.4 billion, you are aware of that! – only to reorganise this broken budget, for which the Greens also carry their handwriting. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They stand out now, have even butter on their head, that half is enough, and criticize the next debtor in this country. They, whose deputy mayor manages a city with the highest debt level among all the municipalities of Central Europe, turn to the speaker's desk and say: What the pomp is doing is actually quite horrific! But her own vice-bourgeois master, her own green group makes it all the same. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Television is already off!]] Black-green, ladies and gentlemen, burdens people where it occurs, where it strikes to say it at the beginning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Mrs. Vice-Citizen's Master – I'm already saying "Vizebourgeer"! –, dear Mrs. Klubobfrau, you stand here with trembling and critical voice... – You can still shout like this, I thank God the microphone at hand! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Television's already gone!]] – You stand here and criticize the Minister of Finance with trembling and aggressive words and dance with your half group a week ago at 42. Birthday at the buffet organ of the Minister of Finance, on Bussi Bussi! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Explain It is once to the voter, who is nevertheless of the opinion that although there is a dispute here in plenary, everyone, when they go out, will give his hand and be the best friends! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I wasn't there on Friday in the evening!]] – Well, of course it is, Mrs. Klubobfrau! Explain this to us! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stop lying!]] And explain to us, together with the Minister of Finance, how it feels to invite the highest increases in fees and taxes in the history of the Second Republic at the height of an economic crisis, but at the same time to an opulent festival of the Federico Fellini brand, Dolce Vita Italy – 1,700 people who have bent buffet tables that allowed taxpayers to burn – and you, Mr Finanzminister, have been on vacation for three months and are still unable to present a budget for party political reasons! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because you failed because you're a lawbreaker! Do you know what this is especially bad about you? – That you put your party interests before the interests of the country, that you put the cheap populism of your party policy and the fear of two waxes in a choice before the interests of the citizens! [[OBJECTIVES]] That's not responsible. Mr Financier and the whole EIA Group, not you, but the situation, which is without character! The voters will do this to you on 26 May. ==References== ==References====External links== You can assume that, you can take poison. [[Call the ÖVP: Farewell speech!]] [[Abg. Eat: 2 percent!]] – I will go to the nerve for even longer than you love! You can wait a long time for my farewell speech. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It obviously needs one who tells you the truth! You'll drive around the world with the van, with your slips through the country – that's all beautiful – a little bit with Christian Conrad's Leket and give the banks their dirty profits that they've made through the economic crisis with a bank package. They have a former German chancellor sitting in their ranks, dispossessing the money of the German nuclear lobby, abcassing to use his international contacts as Federal Chancellor to do their dirty business against the environment and against Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have the full imagination when it comes to improving your living standards, the living standards of your comrades, red and black. On the other hand, when it comes to people's concerns, you're completely inventive. Then hide behind your offices again, behind your service weights, and plan from the 26th century onwards. ==References== In October, the largest wave of taxes on the Republic's taxpayers. They do not show any ascetics, but demand that every citizen, every citizen of this country, pay you an average of €800 per year for tax performance and tax performance in the future of 2011 because you do not get to the front and back with your budget and do not show any humility and are unable to finally recognize which savings potentials are in the field of public hands! [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all! What's he talking about?]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that's disgraceful! It is disgraceful to raise the mineral oil tax once again if hundreds of thousands of commuters in our country no longer know how to get to work! It is disgraceful to hunt up the fuel prices once again and thus burden the families when, on the other hand, you speak about the family country of Austria in your Sunday speeches and try to favour the people of our country, but even are unable to finally relieve the families in this country! They also do not relieve workers, nor do employers, who have to market overpriced and expensive products, because production in our country – thanks to your tax policy – is becoming increasingly difficult! They are planning to abolish the hacker scheme. People with 45 years of contribution will punish you by abolishing the hacker rule, with any cocky arguments. And whoever then pays for it is not your officials – who are protected by the “Cancellor’s President” new-born, by the most powerful man in our country – but with the abolition of the hacker rule you punish those people who have actually worked decently and bravely for 45 years! [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... not into the country day!]] No matter when they started to work, but after 45 years of work, it must be enough and the transition to a new phase of life should begin. It's social. But what you do is a social – and you know that very well. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They increase VAT. – By the way: I am pleased that Mr Gradauer previously quoted Mirko Kovats, your black Kovats, who sits in a boat with Gerhard Hirschmann and wants to drive ÖTK 2 up again in Voitsberg, a coal miller. I am glad that you do not plan a nuclear power station with the bowl there, but that it is “only” that it is a coal miller, because I trust you with your imagination even more. Mr Grastaur cites the black Kovats with the black Hirschmann, who speaks of raising VAT in Austria to 26 percent. I congratulate you! They probably also commissioned him to prepare the media contexts in Austria, so to speak, to explain to the people that it would be quite normal if you paid 26 percent VAT, because that would be so great anyway. They continue to live in your inflated equipment with your political officials, with a bloated federal government, with your hundreds of ministers, with their 120 million € in advertising costs, mission costs et cetera. But you go here and say 26 percent are to pay the people of our country VAT! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Is this the farewell speech?]] You can plan this from me in your silent room, but we will prevent you from doing so, just as Seppi Bucher, as the only clubman, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig, has insisted on it, and also in the presidential that the budget plan is respected and not overturned. [[Abg. Krainer: The level in the house will rise suddenly!]] In Austria, we have the situation – I also tell you – that it is not only municipalities that go up to the level with the taxes, but also federal states. I come from a federal country where we no longer bring together budgets and where we need a savings potential of €700 million in order to bring the next budget on the journey at all: thanks to your Mr. Landesrats Buchmann, thanks to your Mr. Vice-Chairman Sagittarius, who started from 26. September no longer needs to worry, because he gets 9 000 € in pension and celebrates with his wife happy originals’. That's it. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Stop it, please! That's below every level!]] They also plan to increase taxes and taxes in the countries. In the same way, you have plans in the municipalities to increase taxes and taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There's something wrong with the clock!]] And what's particularly bad is: The tax benefit you intend to receive here in our country is not a real public service. The people of our country are paying taxes to keep the infrastructure in order. The people of our country are paying taxes so that security is given in our country and that the police are paid. People pay taxes that the trash is picked up, that the water comes, that electricity works, that schools and kindergartens work. [[Abg. Krainer: For that they pay fees, not taxes! But that's probably too much!]] However, the performance that you offer and which you will reduce in two months is no longer compared to the real tax benefit in Austria, in order to say it in all its clarity. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] - We have 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18679	10 minutes, deputies. Their 10 minutes are exhausted. I'm sorry. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I'll let you get a final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18703	The final sentence is: I put forward the request by Mr Grosz, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance, according to the Federal Constitution, to fail to have confidence, and I hope that you will have your approval, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18745	Mr President, you are making me twice as a problem. First: Unfortunately, you did not make the request properly. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: How “pityful”!]] I would ask a subsequent speaker to submit this request again and to read it properly. It is not just a comment to make on it, but the request is to be read. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of Abg. Grosz) Learn Parliamentaryism!]] [[Abg. Amon: Madam President, how many calls of order would have been possible in this speech?]] The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18811	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Valuable members of the Federal Government on the government bank! I am starting to do this a little more calmly now, with our motion for a resolution which I am allowed to put into effect. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a novel of the Federal Finance Framework Act, which reverses the cuts in the fields of education and science and, by 2014, enshrines an additional billion for these future areas each.” Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would just like to ask you one: Don't ignore the true location of the universities! It doesn't work well for education and research if you ignore the real situation denies, it beautifies – or conducts a bird-strout policy. The Federal Government has created councils – not small in number and not cheap in costs – which demand exactly what I do again today, namely: more money in education and research than motor, as a driving force for a real future of the Republic and of Europe at all. We have talked about Europe today, and you have certainly not forgotten that Austria has been admonished by the OECD – now be careful! – to increase the number of its students and to improve the quality of teaching. But what does this Federal Government do? – She tries to save the quality of the teaching only by saying: Please don't come all of you, stay outside, let's halve the number of students, at least let's cut them down dramatically – and then it would have to fit twice again. – The OECD disagrees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] From time to time, Mr Van der Bellen founded his theses with the Financial Times. I have heard your theses now and can also give you media support for your theses: However, these are in the “Districtsblatt Horn” where your colleague Beatrix Karl says: attract the knowledge site of Austria! And you want to make us aware that you are attracting Austria's research and knowledge country by shortening it. They say: "The least, but even the less. Your experts say: You have to invest, don't cut short! You certainly know the difference between investing and shortening, I assume. I don't want to insult you, that's why: You know that. Now there's something else. I wonder if you were in secret two or a year ago. I imagine the situation this way: They sit down and ask themselves: What am I supposed to do today? I'm so fat. Let us look at 2% of the gross domestic product for tertiary education and research! – Your government program! If we want the same thing now, you say: Are they all besieged? Don't they know there's a crisis? What do they want? You wanted this, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The Federal Chancellor wanted this too, the SPÖ wanted it too. Everyone wanted it! And now you don't seem to be fad anymore – and you're saving. It's probably kind of more excruciating. However, Bavaria, not only Merkel in the federal government, has imposed € 1 billion on universities for universities. They want to create more 20 000 places to study. With us it'll be less! I wonder, What do students and their parents have for a feeling when they stand in front of locked doors? Or do you think that all rectors protest only from jux and tollery and excite and ecpress themselves? What did Karl tell them? It is now being saved, we already know, by 2011. She told them: Make deposits, it's getting worse! Karl likes to speak, and then she slips out, and another €300 million will be required for her. This is about the sum costing three-quarters of all university professors and professors. Who the hell does it beat the language? Nobody! Money to the extent of the costs of three quarters of all university professors and professors is then no longer available. Then one will crack with the disciples or no longer take them at all. I'm telling you, I know the colleges. I was still in the clinic commission under Vice-Chancellor Busek. I was in the research fund. And if now Cortolezis-Schlager says that Austrian universities must be at the forefront, I would like to have answered the question: Yeah, how? You call for rankings. Yeah, you know what's essential in these rankings? Not only the scientific performance and output, but also: How much does a state invest in its university teachers and its students? What is the situation of universities? What is the hardware equipment? It was, I think, even an order from the Federal Government or from Karl, that Joanneum Research should examine the structure at the universities, the hardware, the spatial equipment. Your study! There's inside: The universities lack €600 million by 2014 alone to bring the hardware equipment back up to date. Up to date – not world peak! They need the money. And if you think you can save now, and then you turn on a button after five years, and then we go through – that doesn't happen in science, people lose their cooperations, contracts with abroad must be announced, they don't come back when they were abroad. Tell me the rectors. The university has lost its attractiveness for young people. [[The red lamp, which signals the end of the speaking time, shines up.]] That's why it's probably red now. You probably didn't turn it on right now, but that's higher. [[towards the government bank]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18935	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for the six minutes. But of course you also have a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e18950	No, I'll stop! We've made savings proposals, and I'll send them to you. You know the BIG deserves quite well at the university. And you get this money from the BIG. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: What? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!]] The Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft earns €200 million per year at the university and has a single position feature. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: They are investing them for this!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes, but for that they have to build!]] - Do they have to build? [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Sure!]] Do you know how many of the 200 million are being installed? 38 million! [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Go, you stupid!]] Yes, we have everything there, there has been an inquiry! The BIG has a single position feature and a monopoly. Does that have to be? I say no!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19044	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19251	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19272	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Greenewald, for contributing to the re-enactment of the discussion. Today, we all have taken the media with relief – I think, everyone – that there will be a first relaxation in connection with consolidation policy. The question is, even if, of course, this is still a vague prognosis and We are cautiously optimistic about what conclusions we should draw from such a development. In this respect, it is good to hold today this debate on budgetary policy here in the House. I think that's about three questions. On the one hand, we want to work out scope, and that, I hope, is largely undisputed across party borders. Where it is becoming more critical, the question is how we could develop these budgetary scopes. And thirdly, the challenge is that we agree on what we should use these spaces for. On the issue of how we should work out the scope, we cannot argue that, even if the situation is a little relaxed, the principle must continue to apply that fiscal consolidation must be socially just, i.e. both revenue and expenditure on the one hand and, above all, that those responsible for the crisis should also contribute accordingly in order to implement the budget consolidation. If this is true and if we manage to create the opportunity to open up spaces, then we are the first to say yes, we use these spaces more offensively than it has been possible up to now to take offensive action. And I am pleased that Mr Vice-Chancellor has also known that investment in education, science and research is necessary and meaningful. They have spoken of a key role and have given priority to these areas. I would like to stress this three times. In this context, we should also take very seriously that, in view of this possible new development, the researchers now recommend making important investments in the future and not saving in the field of education and research – or in order to speak with the words of the mayor of Vienna: We must invest out of the crisis and not save ourselves into the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we acknowledge that the entire education system must be an education system of equal opportunities, from kindergarten to common school to universities that are offensively supported and have an essential role in the economic and social development of tomorrow. On the one hand, it is about the individual opportunities of our children and young people, but also, on the other, very important to invest in social development as a whole. On the financial situation of universities: Yes, the universities need more money. I would like to stress what Mr Greenewald has emphasized here, but I would also like to repeat the commitment from our side and confirm that this cannot happen through tuition fees. From our point of view, tuition fees are the wrong way. This has been known for two years since the government negotiations that there will be no study fees with SPÖ. However, no Plan B has been created. And on this our attitude will also be threatened by threats of closing universities, nothing will change, threats that are totally unrealistic. I expect a plan B here and constructive proposals to ensure otherwise appropriate funding. We clearly confess to a publicly funded education system and also to publicly funded universities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The commandment of the hour from our point of view is quite clear: Work out opportunities for greater scope and these for offensive measures and investment in the future use especially in the fields of education, science and research.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19348	Mr Amon is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19369	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps a colleague from the BZÖ can ask Mr Grosz to come to the hall. [[Call to the FPÖ: It has gone around!]] I would have liked to turn to him very much. – First of all, however, to the urgent self. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: He's already here!]] I believe that the Minister of Finance has set out very plausible today, why it has made sense to wait with the budget, because in a very uncertain economic development, figures and facts were not on the table in the way we are usually used to in budget planning. Mr Finanzminister, the last statements of current economic development are absolutely right for you and the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have been thinking, ladies and gentlemen, whether I should address Mr Grosz or, like my two immediate speakers, whether it is perhaps not really better to ignore that. I have decided differently, and that is because – and, Madam President, I would ask you to let the minutes come – I believe that this speech should have earned a wealth of calls of order and that we should together in the supposedly high House ensure that the dignity of this House is not permanently violated by individuals in a way that we can no longer represent this with regard to the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Grosz, I would like to tell you a few things in all clear terms. You made a broadcast a few days ago, which was probably a little more elaborate than your present speech here in the hall. If you submit to the Minister of Finance, an event in the style of Ludwig's XIV. To do with 1 700 guests, it may be that the envy speaks of you. If you're on empty main squares I can still understand your election speeches and I would like to come to the events of Mr Vice-Chancellor on 1 700 people. However, when you say that he – literally – organises “truly frisorgia” when you write that this event is “a collection of red, black and blue no use, paired with representatives of the small criminal Austrian banking landscape, taxpayers and prominent diaries”, then, dear colleague Grosz, this is simply unacceptable. [[Abg. Grosz: Thank you, because I wanted to accommodate everything in the speech!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of the SPÖ and with Deputies Ing. Hofer and Mag. Kogler.]] Mr Grosz, I would also like to ask you and others who may find pleasure in this type of conflict to return to a style that somehow still meets the house. I tried to see it from the humorous side. Ludwig XIV. I'm sure it didn't just have negative pages. Now I've researched a little what you can do on positive pages of Ludwig XIV. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. One thing is, they have the same star sign. The Statur Ludwigs XIV. was strong, he was well built, wide-shoeed, looking pretty good at all. I think that is also true of our Minister for Finance. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But the hairstyle does not fit completely!]] Its way was to behave masterily, kindly and especially with ladies very correctly. This is also true of our Minister of Finance. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In another search I found: It carried out important reforms in the country, particularly in the context of economic policy. He promoted the arts, the sciences, which meant a heyday for French culture. And in the end: At 72 years of age on the throne, he was the longest-ever head of state of history in Europe. – Mr Finanzminister, of course we wish you so too. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: First he has to ascend the throne! That's where he's got to be 120 years old!]] This may have been the farewell speech of Gerald Grosz today. We do not know, but he has announced – I quote from the “Small Newspaper” –: I'll tell Adieu if I don't go into the country day. On demand, the 33-year-old specified that he would also deposit his National Council mandate. It is noteworthy that no one from the BZÖ Grosz has yet asked him to remain in the movement. – I understand you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19501	Mr Amon, the Stenographical Protocol has already been requested, because, of course, I would also like to look at the motion for a resolution again. I would also like to take a very, very precise look at the choice of words. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19525	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Amon, I do not think it was necessary, in my opinion, to deal with the statements made by a colleague in this House before. There is something like this in criminal law, which is called “environmental dissatisfaction, ” and that would be true here. [[Lively cheerfulness at FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] These statements should not be addressed here, nor should they come from someone who takes off his steirerdom like his steirer's suit after the end of the television era. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] It is a fact that, in the context of this urgent request, especially the complex of education is dealt with, that writing down is also something very nice and important for learning, and we thank the Greens that they have written down the request from the Special Session to 90 percent wordidentally. We would also have other points from our programme, which we would strongly recommend to the Greens to write down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now what the Federal Minister for Finance has said. The Financial Framework Act has already been adopted. An important exhibition in the Albertina was opened today. I am convinced that people are not going there to look at the framework, even if they are still so beautiful and interesting, but first and foremost those who want to see the pictures that are in the frame. And there are different pictures: There are valuable, beautiful originals. There may be a cheap reproduction or, even worse, perhaps even a fake. And we Austrians, not only the Steirers and the Viennaers, would have liked to have seen the images in front of the urns, that is, what this frame is filled with, in order to make a picture of itself, as it is so beautiful. But that is what you are putting before us, and that is why we are still here in the dark, and of course this dark may seem a little threatening, especially when you hear what the government is supposed to do. Mr Cap has made a few words and asked the opposition to take action in Parliament. - We're not the constitutional breakers. We are the ones who say: Only if the government does not submit the budget in due time, not constitutionally, until then, that is, 23rd. In October, a corresponding budget may be presented by Parliament itself. We therefore cannot, unfortunately, follow the call made by Mr Cap on the breach of the constitution of God. But Mr Cap also said other things, and he meant that a reduction in Members would be a loss of democracy. In turn, 300 members of the National Council would mean more democracy. I don't think that's the case either. And, Mr Cap, don't worry about the quality of Members who are free, because of what they are doing here in the House or in their constituencies. Look You'd rather be with yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have also heard a lot from Mr Kogler, who has said that the Heads of State are, in fact, only preventers, blockers and the like. The Constitution is clear on this too. In addition to the Republican principle and the democratic principle in the Constitution, we also have the federalist principle. And it cannot be expected that this federalism will be sacrificed for a central state. The fact is that the Greens have also tabled a motion for a resolution – that a total of € 2 billion should be provided for universities and schools – in general, there are, of course, additional ones. That's in itself right, just: It's too little! With a more of the same one does not do anything either. The OECD says that we spend a lot on our education, but there is too little directly in the classrooms or in the audiences. In other words, there is something like a structural reform, an administrative reform, and in this respect the Red and Black leaders are obviously not willing to do. I think it also fails because there are no longer any personalities such as Schärf, Pittermann or Kreisky or Figl or Raab in these parties. Where has our state been since 1945, if one had done such a hack in the lives of the Republic, in such important things as administrative reform between the state and the federal states? That's the problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Kuntzl referred to the question of the education system to be guided by equal opportunities. – Yes, equal opportunities in the education system must be given every child, every young person in Austria must get. Only we say that equal opportunities at the beginning is not the guarantee of achieving a positive conclusion to this educational path at the end of the day. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance spoke only of training, we go We want to have education and training, because there is a small difference. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There should be something else between equal opportunities at the start and the end of the guarantee, in a liberal sense, namely the performance, the effort to achieve the objective. Not all can be “send” from the outset – under quotation marks – according to the motto: no more sitting, no more grades or the like. This is not a preparation for life. There must be performance. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We also believe that the great coalition of red and black is the worst possible form of government to promote administrative reform, for example in the school sector. There is a left-wing view, and there is a right view as to how to shape it, but in any case, only such a one would bring us forward. I personally have to say, of course, I don't prefer the left. There are some who drive more departure, and others drive more slalom; Parts of the ÖVP also tend to drive slalom. The fact is that both sports are always downhill. We want to remain at the summit and there we want our children to work for the performance of the education system. That's what we're looking for. Performance in Austria must pay off. It is necessary to know that 20 percent of those who are able to benefit and benefit are responsible for 70 percent of the taxes so that we can distribute them according to these ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19642	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19664	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I should like to say that, in our view, Mr Grosz has brought the motion of censure into full compliance with the rules of business, but I can still repeat it and thus bring it in: The motion for a reluctance by Mr Gerald Grosz, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Minister for Finance shall be, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’ As a result, I'll tell you why. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] First point: Mr Finanzminister, you can turn it around as well as you want: Constitutional break remains constitutional break! Article 51(1) 3 of the Federal Constitution clearly states that ten weeks before the end of the year you will have to submit a corresponding budget to the National Council. – Don’t stick to this and break the Constitution. You can turn it and turn it as you like. The second fact is that, as Minister of Finance as the Minister of Finance, you are going into history that is responsible for Austria's highest debt of all time, over €200 billion, which is €22 000 per head and nose. – Josef Pröll, Minister of Finance with the highest debt this country has ever seen. The question that now arises is: How does this Minister of Finance intend to reduce this deficit? How does he want to reduce these debts again with the government partner from the SPÖ? There are two completely different positions. The SPÖ is the tax increase party. That's what we know: Whenever it becomes brittle, the SPÖ is the first party to propose introducing new burdens. The ingenuity is almost limitless. Mr Katzian – because I'm seeing him right now – is for example an expert in inventing new taxes. The ÖVP runs a different line. She says: We do not want to raise taxes, but we want to reduce benefits: for families, for education, for children, for pensioners. The BZÖ's attitude is clear. We do not want one or the other. We say no new taxes. However, we do not want to reduce the performance of the weakest society and therefore say: save where it makes sense to save in the device, save in the state, save in the administration, save on politicians. This is what people expect in times of crisis. That is what we are pursuing from the BZÖ and represent the only party in this House. [[Abg. Krainer: That's why you doubled the party promotions in Carinthia!]] We say that performance has to pay off again. We say that the middle class should not be taxed again. We recall that Austria is already one of the countries with the highest tax rates in Europe, and it would be irresponsible to put on this tax screw again. We fear that such measures will completely break down the already taxed middle class. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On current occasion I dare to take a look at Sweden to your party friend and successful head of government Reinfeldt, whom you are always happy to visit in Austria, who has successfully demonstrated in Sweden how to overcome the crisis that has successfully demonstrated how to reorganise a government budget. What has this Mr Reinfeldt done about tax questions? – He did not raise taxes, but, on the contrary, he did what was right: It has lowered wage tax to encourage consumption in times of crisis, in order to promote the delicate economic plant that is now beginning to grow again, so that this economic upturn, which is now drawing on, cannot be strangled but the path of recession can be continued. That would also be a model for Austria. We have to relieve the middle class, we have to relieve small and medium-sized incomes. We must strengthen the purchasing power in this way and must not do the opposite, namely to ask those who already have the least by putting on the control screw again to the cash register. That's one. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second is that we finally need to implement what has been discussed in Austria for 20, 25, 30 years. – Yes, we are in favour, Mr Klubobmann Cap, of reducing the national council to reduce the country’s day by reducing national governments. We stand by it, and we want it to be implemented. We are in favour of abolishing the Federal Council; a toothless body that has no actual decision-making powers. We are in favour of finally bringing together all social security schemes, because this country is simply unable to afford this huge instrument of social security. We are also in favour of being so honest and saying that we can no longer afford these structures in this form to ourselves the many communities we have in Austria. For example, we should look at the Danish model, where the number of communities has been drastically reduced. Next area: Education. – Let us finally take up the reform in the field of school administration! Mrs. Schmied is perfectly right when she says there must be a single competent competence for teachers. We say yes, that's right, teachers should be subject exclusively to federal competence. The district school inspectors are abolished and the national school council is abolished because it is an administrative unit that is not necessary and no longer needed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Each of the nine federal states has school departments, and these are perfectly sufficient to manage the school together with the federal government in the sense of the students. These are just a few examples I would like to cite. I can conclude with a quote from the Constitutional Court President Holzinger, who said literally: “The solutions for the reforms are practically on the presentation plate.” That means we also serve you today’s solution proposals – put them into practice! Remember, too, what you have promised in your speech for Austria, or as this pseudo event has always said, that you want to call a conclave and tag until white smoke rises! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] They haven't even lit the fire to this day. You haven't done anything in this area at all, and you won't do anything either because you don't realize anything and fear your uncle in Lower Austria. [[OBJECTIVES]] In this sense, I can say to the conclusion that I can promise that the BZÖ can and will make its contribution so that the reform stand which is in place in Austria is finally addressed as a responsible movement for the middle class, for those people who work something that has done something and who also deserve to get the corresponding wage for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19750	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19772	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Amon, we have rarely agreed in the last two years, but today I must praise you. They have found a beautiful picture for the Minister of Finance. The comparison with Ludwig XIV. It really fits exactly. The arrogance that we have encountered in recent years and months is exactly what Ludwig XIV did. It's the one that radiated. “I am the state!” – if I may remember – this is exactly what the Minister of Finance gives us. [[Abg. Krainer: Is falsely given to him!]] I may also remind you that the measures taken by Ludwig XIV. more state – less private were. He has introduced mercillism, but you will certainly know that. I assume that you have also praised your Minister of Finance for this reason. But I can also remind you that it is not least the measures of Ludwig XIV. were those who finally driven France into the state bankruptcy and caused the French revolution. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] I congratulate you on this picture, very impressive. Maybe it was a mistake, I don't know. Bruno Kreisky would probably have said: Learn S’ story, Mr. Colleague! But you will have chosen this example consciously. Now on the real issue. It was also addressed to Parliament by Klubobmann Cap: We may face up to the government. - We'll try. Unfortunately, however, politics is neither the Christian-social ÖVP nor the social democracy in such a way that I can see it in any form. Mr Kuntzl rightly demanded that we hear concrete measures in order to be able to really implement the objectives she has mentioned and which I can only support in the field of education policy. Single: We don't hear anything – neither here nor from the Ministry of Education or some chord from the Ministry of Education. Mr Finanzminister, you have talked a lot today – and little has been said. You have learned a little from the disastrous reporting about the special meeting and have talked around the hot bridle. You can get it to the point, you said: I don't exclude anything, I don't include anything. – Well, thank you, these are statements to the House, which cannot be completely reconciled with the confrontation at eye level requested by your coalition partner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we hear from you is the lawn mower method. At two cut heights, a little higher, a little lower – you drive through the budget. The result is: We have enormous burdens on families in the field of education. There you really privatize the costs. I can remind you that the expenditure of private households on education has doubled in our state since 2000. Many families can no longer afford to do so. It is precisely that social disadvantage that you, Mrs Kuntzl, are trying to talk about has been intensified in the past, and unfortunately it will be further aggravated by the measures now announced. Mr Finanzminister, you have presented us with hot air! For example, you have mentioned what specific measures you have implemented in the field of education in recent years. – I can tell you that at the start of my school I received calls from many schools that could not implement exactly what you have announced to us here, namely the reduction of the maximum number of school students to 25. I have recommended to all schools to object to the Staff Representatives Committee, which has led to interesting results that you will still feel. A school in Imst, as well as the school in Wenzgasse in Vienna have gotten right. [[Abg. Krainer: No!]] They got right – but they got right! [[Abg. Krainer: No!]] That's going to be reversed now. In other words, you will be obliged to spread the reduction of the maximum number of students not only propagandistically, but also to provide the financial framework to enable schools to do so. They themselves have referred to the term “directional value”. You know exactly that this guide value can be exceeded by 20 percent and that in most gymnasies we have 30 students in the classes from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler and not 25. [[Abg. Krainer: That's wrong!]] Of course, that's true, talk to the local people. They refuse reality. We hear that. [[Abg. Krainer: But not in the majority of classes 30 or more! That's probably wrong!]] The same applies to the reduction of the division rates. The same applies to the opening figures. [[Abg. Krainer: But not in the majority of classes!]] If you talk to the teachers on the spot, talk to the parents, then you'll hear this, Mr. Krainer, you can't talk about reality! What I said is reality. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] The number of students goes up to 30, and please... [[Abg. Krainer: But certainly not in the majority of classes!]] Get in touch! You've announced more teachers. I can only say that you will find in the next few years that you can't get these because you haven't trained them. – Also a product of your missing education policy in recent years. I can only repeat what Eva Glavischnig has already said: Work or stop – this is the alternative you stand before. With refusal of work It certainly cannot solve the problems of the present and cannot solve the problems of the future at all. Do what Werner Kogler has announced in Styria: Save with heart and invest with brain! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19908	The motion for a reluctance by Mr Petzner, which has been properly tabled before, is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19975	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e19997	Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a reluctance, which has now been tabled: Why has it been presented now? – It is relatively simple: The liberals have left the present hour, the Greens the urgent ones, for the BZÖ nothing left, so it has quickly filed a motion of distrust, otherwise it would have been mentioned in the media coverage only because of the extradition of Mr Petzner. [[Call BZÖ: Go!]] That doesn't make a slim foot a few days before the country election, so a distrust request is made. The reason for this was more than weak. The main reason is this: because the Minister is responsible for the highest national debt in history. - Now just! If you are Finance Minister now, do you think you're not responsible for the highest debt in two months or in a year? He has inherited this public debt from his predecessor, and in the middle of the greatest economic crisis, of course, it has grown larger. [[Call the BZÖ: Who?]] So this accusation is really more than ridiculous. The proposal was particularly interesting, and we might be interested in Sweden, because Sweden got out of the crisis so well. For information only: As far as unemployment is concerned, Austria has come out better than Sweden. In this respect, we are the best in the European Union. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Both before and after the crisis, Austria is better off both relative and absolute. The reason was: Sweden has reduced wage and income tax to boost domestic demand. - Well, what did we do? Did you not know that we did exactly that last year with a tax reform of exactly 3 billion, that is to say, lower taxes on wages and income, in order to boost domestic demand? This seems to have passed completely without any trace. The effect: Domestic consumption has grown, despite the crisis, despite unemployment, and we now have a better economic situation and higher tax revenue. That's what we did. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Small was the tax reform you made when you were in the government. That's right. She was so small that no one ever noticed anything about it. 7 € was the average relief for your tax reform, the biggest of all time, as it was then called. 7 € per month! And what about our tax reform now on the average? – 360 € a year! This is the difference between what you have done in the government and what this Federal Government has done here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But let's stick to the issue of the rise in tax revenue. Yeah, they're rising, especially sales tax. We will get the exact figures at the end of the month, but that's what has already occurred in recent months. What does that mean for us now? There are basically three variants. The one variant is that we do not give up a fair contribution by the millionaires by not introducing bank taxes, asset taxes and the like. – I don’t think that’s what I’m saying. The second variant is to say: Well, then we'll consolidate faster, then we'll see that we're going to get under 3 percent faster. And the third variant is that you say: If we have additional scope here, we will use it for offensive measures in the field of ecology, education, research, development and infrastructure. And that's where I honestly tell you: If I have these three variants to choose from, we should also see the chance that we have money for offensive action here. In his speech, the Vice-President spoke about the importance of offensive action. He has here called the ecological area, saying: thermal rehabilitation. I think that is the right thing to do, and I think that the field of education is the same. That is, if, on the basis of the policies of recent years, we have more scope, then I am opposed to giving up the fact that millionaires, banks, speculators, foundations and so on continue to make their fair contribution. We will not give up on that, for that would mean giving up justice, and there is no reason for us to give up justice. But let us take this money for the opportunity to implement offensive measures – in the area of thermal rehabilitation, in the field of education, in the field of research and development and in the field of infrastructure. When it comes to expenditure: Mr Darabos has already said to his place of business where he can imagine saving in particular, for example in secret services. Unfortunately, there was immediately a Njet from the ÖVP. Mr Schmied also made it clear that she wanted to save, especially in the field of school administration, by disbanding an entire school administration level, the district school inspectors et cetera. We also support this – unfortunately there was already a no on the part of the coalition partner. Maybe you'll think about it. Finally, a little hint from me where you could save: I think we can also save the ÖIAG; there are also several million a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20063	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20099	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! With the urgent request of the Greens it is like with a balloon: You stick in – a lot of hot air, and you're left with a slippery cover. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] I have now listened attentively: Until now, I have not been able to see election fraud, I have not been able to recognize any constitutional breach. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But that's up to you!]] Electoral fraud, however, Mr Greenewald, is in the grounds for the request. And you've started your statement with the reason that you know well. I respect you as an educational and/or scientific speaker, but there is a part of the reason in which you do not recognize yourself. You write here, until 2011 the savings in the universities amount to 50 million. – Mr Grünewald, you know the performance agreements which are valid until 2012. It cannot therefore be saved in a contractual way at the universities until 2012. Take note of this legal situation! This hour turns out to be a follow-up for the greens. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald:... negotiate!]] This is not negotiable, but the service agreements are concluded – out, end. Therefore: It can only be negotiated from 2013. Second point: Savings at schools 112 million. I can also tell you here that we have shown several times that Vienna misplaces 2 500 teachers in compulsory school and saves the community money here. I have calculated this sum: 2 500 teachers times €60 000 – so much costs a compulsory school teacher – is worth 150 million. That means when this Minister of Education approaches Mayor Häupl and says: Keep the laws, respect the Constitution, pay your compulsory school teachers, pay for afternoon care, for social workers and school psychology!, then the Minister of Education has 150 million more money at its disposal and 2 500 more teachers for Vienna, which we need very urgently. I therefore support Christine Marek with 1,000 teachers in compulsory schools from now on. However, I should also like to make another point. We are certainly not running vote-in-election! We are opening up what future university funding should look like. I can sum up the policy of the Greens: You want all of Europe to be able to study in Austria free of charge. They invite all of Europe to study here free of charge. They invite all students to Austria around 700 € worldwide – at the expense of Austrian taxpayers. It can't go well! We are therefore in favour of honest funding, of honest access management, of a scholarship system ensuring that the children of the Director-General, the Director-General, do not receive funding for the studies at the expense of the auxiliary worker. We are in favour of social compensation, we are in favour of a separation of research and teaching budget, for the financing of overhead costs in the FWF. This is a modern policy. We propose this offensive policy to you – instead of a request that does not even face counter-financing. They charge € 2 billion, but do not show any counter-financing. This is very worrying for me legally. Therefore: Let's go back to where it's about serious planning! We have made available to you the Subcommittee for this purpose. There are a number of ways to support universities, and that is our task now. Let's do what 26 other European states do: Access management, expansion of the scholarship system and clear competitive research. This is Austria's future higher education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20181	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20203	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of this House! The High House is not called High House, because we are superior to all others, but because it was built so high. And that it only means that it has shown today's discussion and debate so far. According to the very firm statements made by my predecessor on education policy and training policy, I should like once again to go back to the basis of this urgent question, which we have been devoting for two and a half hours now: Electoral disappointment and constitutional breach by the Federal Government. It has not yet been mentioned expressis verbis, which is what the Constitution actually says. And since I ask you to listen carefully because this is actually in the Constitution, and then we have taken an oath: “The Federal Government has” – I emphasize – “to submit to the National Council the draft federal financial law for the following financial year at the latest ten weeks before the beginning of that financial year for which a federal financial law is to be passed.” This is a very clear and clear statement of the Federal Constitutional Law. Ladies and gentlemen! My clients – small and medium-sized businesses – also have laws to comply with, for example, the Sales Tax Act. This says quite clearly and clearly that until the 15th of the second month following the settlement month they will have to pay the turnover tax. That's not any right, it's a compelling right, that's an obligation. And the Federal Government has, I am firmly convinced, also a commitment to these provisions of the Federal Constitution, which I have now read again. Ladies and gentlemen, this commitment is simply not met! We can put ourselves on the head – the Federal Government does not stop it! We have heard it several times today, and the President-in-Office has also said after some hesitation that this is actually right, and the President-in-Office has also said it in the final effect, and the Constitutional Courts say it, and the Supreme Constitutional Judge says it – but the Federal Government is that quick! And that's really weird. Today, however, we have heard something about Dr. Walser of the Greens. Obviously the Greens have done quite well this clause in the Styria. You were in Leoben when I got that right. Hopefully you also sang the beautiful Leobner song that exists there. We were in Graz a week before, and I sang the Graz student song. It's gonna loosen up a little. That is why Mr Walser has obviously loosened this up: The Minister of Finance is giving him hot air, he said. Well, that's a little hard. But if I let the following sentence, which I have written down, go through my head again, then I have to give Mr Walser the right thing. The Minister of Finance said that it was a sensible budget, which covers all aspects. - No, no, no, no, no, What's this statement? It is simply and simply because one has not agreed to attack the hot iron, and that one has waited as long as possible in the hope that the economic situation may be improved, and that perhaps we will get more taxes and perhaps not have to use the horrors that we have already remembered in this order. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this is the intelligent financial policy, which the honourable Member, which I really appreciate in principle, has spoken of, then I do not know what intelligent financial policy is. It can't be intelligent financial policy that I wait and hope and maybe go to church every day and pray: Dear God, let the economic situation get better! It can't be! The task of a Minister of Finance and the task of a government and the task of the subordinate organizations and bureaucrats is to plan, provide and create opportunities for everything that is going on to be a budget, at a time when it is prescribed by the Constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But why can't you? - Because you're a weak government? Well, that's what we're going to do, after what we've experienced today: A single government template and nothing else but reports for a plenary day, which, if the opposition had not brought a few things in, came to an end at 6:45 p.m. What to Bring She's all right? - Nothing! They are afraid of the elections that are now coming to us. [[Abg. New builder: In front of the citizen!]] You are afraid of the citizen, you are afraid that the citizen will harm you if you actually attack the reforms that are necessary in principle. We have a bureaucracy that costs us too much. Everyone knows. That is what the Constitutional Court of Justice knows, the Court of Auditors knows, the government knows, the government parties know, the opposition knows, but they do not dare to do anything because they are cowardly, ladies and gentlemen. The non-fig-being, the mutig-being is the only way that we can get out of this miser, as it also describes my friend and colleague Grastaur so dramatically again and again, out of this devastating misdeed, out of this financial misdeed. Could you still sleep quietly when you think about what we leave our children and children behind? Is it clear to you that it is planned – is planned! – that in 2014 50 percent of total wage tax revenue for the interest service of our public debt is on the rise? For interest service! 50 percent of our workers and employees work only for the interest service of the debt we made today, yesterday, and before yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen – High Government!, I would like to say almost: At last get on the belt, overcome your cowardice! Excuse me, Mr President, perhaps 'feeling' is a false word. Overcoming your heartlessness! - Let's say it that way. Overcoming your heartlessness, taking your courage together, attacking the reforms so that we can finally bring this state out of its terrible economic and financial situation!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20270	Mr Kurt Grünewald spoke on an actual correction. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20298	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! The scientific spokesperson of ÖVP has criticized me and claimed that universities in science and research will not be saved until 2013. I am actually correcting and quoting from the tables of the Federal Financial Framework Act old and new: 2011 a difference of minus 49.4 million, 2012 minus 79.5 million and 2013 minus 92.2 million €. – That’s right, that’s the Federal Financial Framework Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20327	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20348	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Green Forest, I may be able to explain this. You have read out the overall position for the department, and the colleague Cortolezis-Schlager has told you that there is a fixed agreement at the universities until 2012. Both are right, you don't have to duel with appropriate corrections now. The universities get their money by agreement by 2012. Can we agree on that? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Then we can clear the rest of it. The colleague, Mr Walser, has previously said that the maximum number of students has not been reduced, on the grounds that 20 percent more are allowed to sit inside. Yeah, that's always been the case, just: If we lowered from 30 regular to 25, then up to 36 were possible before and there were also many classes with 36 students. Now it is a maximum of 30, and that is a progress that this government has made possible. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to say that we are now discussing the same subject for the fourth or fifth time and the question: Are we formally right or wrong?, but already x-times have been discussed, go into the fundamental argument that the vice-chancer has renewed today. Before the definitive budget 2011 as a financial law comes into the National Council, we first wanted to take a close look at the development of economic growth with all its impact. Why is this year so important? Anyone who hits the paper sees that we have surprising results. The Federal Republic of Germany, which was seen a short time ago as a problem with an enormous In 2009, sudden growth rates that were neither expected nor forecast, and our economy, fortunately, is much better in the export sector than we expected. This can result in us already having much more room for play for the 2010 year, but only for 2011 than we have expected so far. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What do we do with it?]] What would the ladies and gentlemen wish the opposition parties too? That we make the cuts to the fullest extent according to the forecasts of the summer? That's the wrong way! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You have four weeks left!]] The right way is to take the latest forecasts, we take advantage of the possibilities in the key 60 : 40, and we will benefit from the offensive measures that are also possible. That is, on the revenue page 60 : 40, perhaps a little less, but above all on the expenditure page you can see in the decisive chapters – they have already been mentioned by the honourable Member Krainer: Research, science, infrastructure, thermal renovation – then use more if the budgetary framework allows. And why does the opposition turn against this opportunity? – I don't understand! It should be exactly the other way round. If a government comes up with the budget too early, it should be said: Friends, we're still waiting to see if we're in the measure... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I can work that out in four weeks! You don't have to do that as if you didn't have a budget in four weeks! Can you at least say so honestly, it's Vienna's country elections?]] But Mrs. Dr. That's exactly what we both asked for when we were in opposition. Stay consistent in your argument and we will try to benefit from this! – I hope we have done the formal plan now. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you could have a short BFG 2011 here on 20. Present October! Then this formal discussion would have ended and we could finally work together in terms of content so that we can achieve growth rates. What do we need? – The communities are investing less and less. We need further decisive, igniting measures in this area. We may be able to do this with the new financial feed. We need – and there is no doubt about that – new initiatives in the field of thermal rehabilitation. We may no longer be able to work with promotion on our own, but we will introduce new models. You could be involved, but you could not use three parliamentary sessions for a formal question. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Formal question?- Oh, my God!]] My wish and invitation go there, Mrs Glawischnig, instead of a discussion on the formal case, a discussion on the subject. We're all interested in co-operation. Invitation: proposals for content rather than formal contributions, not cooking up here, but working together in Parliament! Believe me, at the country elections, next week and in three weeks, we as government parties have no benefit from the fact that the budget is not yet ready. On the contrary, the fear propaganda could even have an adverse effect. The reason was not the country elections, there are reasons that are reasonable: wait for the final result, set the right measures and the necessary priorities. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: And the Easter hare comes to Christmas!]] We'll do it, Mrs. Klubobmann! And even at your fifth formal meeting, we do not allow ourselves to decide on a good budget with the latest values here in this House. I'm glad you're going to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20459	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20491	Mr President. High house! First of all, a preliminary remark in the direction of ‘Social Home Party’: Mr Grastaur, if you quote a leniency again, please do not charge Mirko Kovats. 26 percent VAT requires Mirko Kovats! You can explain this to your voters from the “Social Home Party”! 26 per cent VAT, this does not even dare the Minister of Finance to demand the country elections in Vienna. [[Abg. Grosz: Who knows?]] For so brave, for such suicide I don't think he is. Let's give him a rest of reason. But now to the colleague Amon. Where is he? - Ah, he's just studying a history book. This was a particularly inappropriate comparison, you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, with Ludwig XIV. ................................................................................................................................ [[Abg. Head: That's what the Petzner did!]] No, no, Amon, Werner Amon, "Werner Schützhofer-Amon". [[Abg. Grosz: “Werner Schützhofer”!]] Because Ludwig XIV. As Mr Walser said correctly, it was not just the whole state bankruptcy that made his successors shorter – I don't want to necessarily [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Is that the head of the Faul?]] Their successors are if the comparison is true – but he also had an unprecedented mutter economy – Mrs. Fekter, I do not know who is meant –, the Madame de Montespan, the Madame de Maintenon. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Yes, also a particularly inappropriate comparison. You should reject that. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What do you want to say?]] But he was the politician who for the first time made self - glory, self - kindness and self - infatuation in politics the dominant method, the dominant style element. Mr Amon has already met again in black, Mr Kopf. [[Abg. Head points towards BZÖ.]] That was Mr Amon, really, he was. You have to read it. You have to watch what your people say. Especially a biterl more history teaching does not harm. Then one would not embarrass one's own vice chancellor with such comparisons. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amon has also aged over the fact that the dignity of the House is at risk because of Mr Grosz. It may be that this is his world. I'm telling you, I'm less concerned about the dignity of the house than about compliance with our federal constitution. That is more important! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This does not keep your “Ludwig” exactly, your great “Ludwig” does not stop it. He has himself together with the Federal Chancellor, who has disappeared today – oh, pardon, his old ego is sitting there – and I quote: [[towards Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer pointing]] “For this reason we would like to inform you, Madam President” – the Federal Government has informed you – “that we are informing you in Art. In paragraph 51, point (b) is replaced by the following: 3 B-VG planned deadline for the submission of the draft federal financial law 2011 cannot be complied with.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Economic Union, let us now change this sentence. In the future, any taxpayer in this country will be able to inform the Ministry of Finance: Dear Lord's Board of Directors! Dear Mrs Head of State! For this reason, we would like to inform you that we do so in § 45 para. 2 Income Tax Act, unfortunately, cannot be complied with. The same applies to § 21 Sales Tax Act. What will happen to him then, ladies and gentlemen? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Fämniszuschlag!]] – That's right, I'm sorry, Madame de Fekter. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Please? Well, the comparison came from your honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen. [[towards ÖVP]] Please, the comparison came from your colleague! Please, Willi, don't be upset! [[in the direction of the Abg. May. Molterer]] You've been the predecessor of him, you've caused what he'll have the citizen bathed out, ladies and gentlemen! How do you explain this to the citizen outside when he says I have to keep the dates, but the boss who takes the money from me doesn't hold anything? – But what does that mean “angrily than the grosz ”? [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Worry than the big one!]] That's true, of course. The Economic Federation goes out and believes that the trader must comply with all that is in the law on appointments, but the minister does not stop at all. He does not care about the federal constitution, because election dates and election strategic considerations of the party secretariats are always more important. Do we want to make the test on the example in the future if the citizen communicates the same argument to the financial office, ladies and gentlemen? In whose name will he be punished? – On behalf of his Majesty “Ludwig” Pröll. Yes, that's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's the unbearable, and that's why I signed this distrust request. Mr Federal Minister, if you sow such distrust with the citizen, you must not be surprised that you are reaping mistrust applications. With this style that the powerful choose whether to comply with the law or not, one creates frustration with the voters, with this style one creates distrust. People don't trust you. If you don't have the mumm to tell the citizen about what is happening to him before elections, then the citizen has a reasonable distrust of what is likely to threaten him, and rightfully, it can do him evil. But no one has the courage to tell him that before the election. That is the problem, why people are increasingly confounded in terms of politics, that is the problem why politicians get an ever worse image! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this respect, Mr Amon's comparison has already taken place in black, ladies and gentlemen. The tax rate was also below Ludwig XIV. sensational high. Ludwig XIV. has prepared the state bankruptcy – that has already been mentioned correctly by Mr Walser – but has not yet led to it, he had prepared it. We will soon have a 45 percent tax rate. That is to say, the so-called Tax Free Day or the day on which the tax exemption for the citizen first occurs will eventually be – at present it is, I believe, the 28. July – go to the second half of the year. Please, where is he? – I don't think you can calculate that. [[Call the SPÖ:In May!]] He's somewhere in the middle of the year, ladies and gentlemen, and he's about to cross the middle of the year. Then you can already go to the State Day, the 26th. October, to make the Tax Free Day because the Neutrality Act has no salary at all. Ladies and gentlemen, that cannot be the goal! If you continue to pursue this policy... – Mr Molterer, shake You're not the head, you're one of the main leaders, you and your party, because you've been in the Ministry of Finance all the time and are responsible for the politics that threatens the citizen here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Together with your successor, you must answer that the tax rate will soon reach European wood levels in this country. You have to answer that the people in this country have to work for the state half of the year – for “his Majesty”, we have heard. This, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with a citizen-friendly policy. And it is not quite a citizen-friendly to break the Constitution so as not to tell the citizen what will happen to him in the near future, just because there are two elections! That is why the citizen is right to be angry. He mistrusts you, and we want to express this distrust to you today. We are the voice of the citizen, not the one over there and not your coalition partners. We'll tell you that the citizens outside are mistrusting you. The citizen knows if you don't have the mumm to say before elections what will happen to him that evil will come upon him. And we want to warn the citizen about that now.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20681	A real correction is made by Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20706	I know the rules, Mr President, thank you. Member of the Stadler has previously claimed that a taxable person who turns to his financial office with the words that he will not be able to issue the income tax declaration will receive a payment. I'm actually correcting: That's wrong. Such an application would be a deadline extension, and if it is justified, it will also be approved. – In this sense, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20740	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20777	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I have little interest and desire to deal with Mr Stadler's things in terms of content, but one thing, Mr Stadler, is an immeasurable one: As you have mentioned here to Mr Vice-Chancellor and in particular to the Minister for the Interior, such a piggy – no, no, no, no, no – is in the way that you have spoken to the ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in particular the Minister for the Interior. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Call BZÖ:Amon!]] Shame and apologise for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20816	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues, on strengthening rather than reducing education in the Federal Financial Framework Act. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority, so it is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. The requirement for presence is met. I expressly note this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – The request does not find a majority, it is rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[17:53:58]] Short debate on the reply to the question 6004/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20889	We now come to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 6004/AB. The answer to the question is distributed. The reading is therefore not sufficient. We are going into the debate. No speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20923	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, I come to an important environmental issue. We know that in Austria we have had much too high dust loads for years, and also in various places in Austria, in many too many places, not only in the big cities. However, the measures are not being implemented, and the health burden on the population is actually increasing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The vice chancellor said that's a luggage!]] [[Call BZÖ: The Vice-Chancellor has cursed Members as luggage!]] In the case of legal persons...
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20960	Ladies and gentlemen! Fairness for the colleague! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The vice chancellor convicts Members as luggage!]] – I take note of this once in a while. However, we are at the next item on the agenda. If you want to give the colleague the chance to articulate. [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] Nothing. Mrs Brunner, I put the clock once again at the desired limit; They're not supposed to suffer any harm. It's going on. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e20996	I do not want to discuss it with the Minister at a private body, but I would like to discuss it publicly, so I do it here too. It's about fine dust. We have far too high values in many places. There have been a number of delays by law, in order to actually take action. The health risk for the population is not delayed. That is why I have put a question to the Minister for Agriculture to make it clear, even after the Immissions Protection Act has been adopted before the summer. I believe that our questions are quite justified in view of the danger that the people are threatening, but I would like to speak briefly before the content on two points concerning the nature of the answer. One thing is: I have asked for a decree on the implementation of environmental programmes in individual countries, because I do not think this was sufficiently presented in the report. Your reply reads: The information can be found in the report. My question has been specifically related to the report. They're giving me the same answer. The question was exactly: Are these environmental programmes necessary or not? Where has it been made, and how is the stand? You have also referred to a homepage in case of a question. So that I can look at a homepage, I don't have to ask a question. It would be important for me, if I ask you for information, to receive the information from you, because it is not only about the information, but also politically relevant, which information is relevant to you and how you stand for it. I now come to the points of content. I have already mentioned the delays. It is now about implementing the Immission Protection Act, which we have decided to also implement the so-called environmental zones so that measures can be taken in the countries as well. Your reply shows that the rules for the posters, which will then be available on the vehicles, will be implemented in May 2011. Now May for fine dust is already a very suspicious date, in May the fine dust season is over, that is, the population will not help this winter. So there will continue to be high loads in this winter. If it is so far in May, you have to add that of course the countries also work then need a certain amount of time. The drivers will have to change. The poster manufacturers will need time. That is, with your deadline May 2011 I ask myself the question: Is it then in the next winter of 2011/2012 at all guaranteed that driving bans in the cities can also be issued? . I believe that this is a legitimate question for citizens who are now suffering from this burden. Another question still arises. In compliance with the limit values for fine dust, Austria sought time-limits. As of June of next year, these values must be strictly observed. How is your May 2011 deadline now going to be that we will comply with the deadlines already in June? That would interest me to learn from you again. A point of content still refers to the right of action – I refer to the so-called Janecek judgment – that people have the right to refer to a Court of Justice even if the authorities do not take sufficient action. Now you have answered that it is only the old directive, not the new EU fine dust directive. I do not think so because this requirement or judgment refers to the action plans and this right of action is granted if there is a threat to health. And if it has to be possible or possible in the event of a threatening load, then I assume that it is possible in the event of an existing load. Unfortunately, in Austria, we are not in a situation where it is about reducing the threat, but we must first reduce the existing burden and thus reduce the health burden for the population in Austria. So these two things I would like to know from you, namely the questions: What about the deadline in June 2011? When are there discharges for citizens? This is important for many citizens, especially those in rehabilitation areas, where projects are still planned, such as the Voitsberg coal power plant. It is incredible that, although a region is already so burdened, it is still subject to derogations that you have passed by law – we have not decided to do so – to expect an additional burden on the population and to take advantage of every milligram that can be added to the population. So as it is, I would like to know about you, and also how you estimate that with the Janecek judgment? I would also have liked to explain a point – apart from fine dust. We have already referred to the private initiatives of Mr Schüssel, who is a Member of this House and who is at the same time with a nuclear group. [[Abg. Amon: Energy business group!]] You have announced in the “standard” that it is your opinion that this is his private matter. [[Abg. Amon: Yes!]] It's clear to me: If a Member is sitting here in this House where there is an anti-atomic consensus and this Member is paid by taxpayers, then it is certainly not his private business to sit in a nuclear group at the same time and to cash out coal there. [[Abg. Hörl: This is hypocrites!]] Your anti-atom policy is hypocritical, because it doesn't work! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, I ask you how your anti-atomic policy should work, how your protest against Germany should work in the extension of the term, if you have a Member in your ranks who draws personal profit from the fact that these maturity extensions are taking place and where unsafe nuclear power plants are kept on the grid in Germany? [[Abg. Rädler: That's what you did in Germany!]] – I think that’s a monsterity! [[Abg. Amon: But not at all!]] And if Wolfgang Schüssel has a spark of political propensity, he must immediately relinquish his mandate. I'm asking him to do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Can you rule out the fact that you used to get nuclear power?]] I can rule it out because I'm getting green electricity. But in Austria it is unfortunately not possible to exclude it, because we also set up a lot of activities to promote renewable energy. [[Abg. Amon: Can't you rule out!]] In this respect, you should join Germany! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] This shows how Austrian environmental policy is determined, and I therefore believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What do you say to Siemens?]] Until recently, I was not aware of the need to say that: a Ministry of Environment independent of nuclear companies. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Polit-Theater!]] That must, I think, be a matter of course in Austria. I expect your statements, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21170	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21192	Mr President. High house! Mrs Brunner, I did not understand correctly what you said at the end of your speech. Did you say you want “an independent Ministry of the Environment” of nuclear companies? I hope you've gone a long way. I don't know what you're doing here. That is why we are talking I mean, that is without any basis and falls into the category of “laughing”, namely to say that the Ministry of Life is dependent on nuclear companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't know where you're from. On the contrary: Especially in the Ministry of Life, in the Ministry of the Environment, there are designated experts for nuclear power who are absolutely in line with the Austrian Federal Government, namely that nuclear power is not an option for us, for sustainable energy supply is not an option, even as a measure for climate protection. This is also the case in the Government Agreement – and then we act! [[Calls to the Greens.]] In addition to that, it was my experts who, from the beginning, after the German Federal Government's agreement had been announced, have voted on the extension of the terms of the nuclear power stations in Germany and have clearly requested what is at all the subject of the decision in order to not only refer to media reports. I have requested from my German colleague Röttgen a special meeting under the Bilateral Nuclear Information Agreement and I demand that the German experts explain to us all the details of the decision, which has not yet been taken, but which is first taken, and how the effects in particular of the nearby nuclear power stations are on Austria. I would also like to say one thing here, because it is said again and again – and that has been mentioned a few days ago – that we are harder against the Czech Republic and Slovakia than against Germany. That's not true at all. For us, it's quite clear to me that we all behave the same way towards our neighbours. We not only expect clear and transparent information from the Czechs and Slovaks, but also from Germany. You see the reactions of the members of the German sister party who were here in Vienna yesterday. They told me to take less care of Germany than of the Eastern European reactors. [[Calls to the Greens.]] So it is clear that I see in both directions that I am not blind on one eye, but I am very likely to have the Eastern European reactors at the point of view, and also those in Germany, because it is about the security of the Austrian population, and there are no compromises. Quite clearly! Now on your questions about the environmental zones. Prepending: The IG air is a law that naturally has a huge field of tension within it. We have managed to get all the interests under one hat, namely, on the one hand – and above all the health of people – to reduce the fine dust load, to protect people in the affected areas and to take environmental aspects into account and to enable economic development on the other. They certainly remember the broad agreement from all sectors. I am sending this forward to address all your questions in concrete terms. Environmental zone. – This is a controversial issue. They know from the public debate that there are some who do not view the environmental zones as a means of resolving the issue. I say: Since national leaders are responsible for the implementation of air pollution measures and also for compliance with the fine dust limit values, national leaders must be given the means to deal with the problems of fine dust. And if some regions think, That an environmental zone makes sense, then they should do it – in a very subsidiary sense. You know that Graz is particularly affected. It will also discuss the introduction of such an environmental zone. You are right to say that this also takes time when you have to equip the cars with picklerln. Therefore, the timetable is that of the Regulation with 1. May 2011 is to enter into force, because after the review period the opinions will be introduced and a proper regulation is to be adopted here, so that passenger cars can also rely on it. It is clear that the use of posters for the winter of 2011/2012 should be possible. It's my goal to make this possible. Currently, as planned in my draft, four exhaust gas marking plates are differentiated according to the traffic light system, and it is important that these posters only need those entering such an environmental zone. Fakely, it is said that you need a new picker on your car now. This is not the case if you are not in such a zone. It is true that if, for example, an environmental zone is built in Graz, one needs to get into this such a pickerl. It is my job to ensure that we have a uniform picklerl system in Austria, for example, that there are no different colours in Graz than in Vienna or Linz or in Salzburg. It's supposed to be uniform. But the introduction is left to the region in question, and that is just as thoughtful as you have called for it here. Now for the implementation of the Janecek judgment. - There's a different opinion. In view of the Janecek judgment, there is no need to make any changes to the IG air because we believe that the judgment refers to the obsolete directive and because the obligation in the new directive no longer exists. After the Aarhus Convention, the States have a margin of discretion in their implementation. The European Commission has presented a proposal to answer this question at the same time, and it has not received any support from the Member States. We will continue to pursue this issue by the Ministry of the Environment. For period-limitation: In particular, the Graz agglomeration room was requested. There is a communication to the European Commission. She's checking that out right now. In the case of time-limits, it is also important to be able to put forward fine dust reduction measures, without prejudice to the time-limits. I hope I answered everything right now, because I couldn't hear everything clearly because of the noise level. So I'm sorry if I might have just made this broken down, but I hope I've answered all your questions. For that I have referred to the fact that you can read this in the IG Air Report, I ask for understanding, but this is a great report that is available to you, and that is why you can also get the information there. This is not a malice, but just a reference to where you can find the information in order not to have to make a long answer. That has a purely practical reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21298	The next speakers each have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Köfer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21324	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At a National Council meeting in July of this year a novel of the IG-Luft Immissions Protection Act was adopted. In this way, more competence in the field of air protection was given to the Austrian national leaders. This is also a good thing – provided that the head of state is also interested in solutions and works in a matter-oriented manner and is not a national court, such as we find in Carinthia, exclusively with a banking disaster, with stadium arguments, with local panel bouts, with photo shoots and with the execution of “10. ==References====External links== [[Call the ÖVP: And the Voves!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The novelle of the Immissions Protection Act met a requirement of the government program 2008 to 2013, which, of course, appears to be particularly pleasing. That is why today’s request for greens is covered by the “Back to the Roots” category, which would actually be welcomed in principle, because the request regarding Arnoldstein appears to be drawn to the hair. A question in the state government in Carinthia has shown that in Arnoldstein, checks are carried out permanently by the authorities and improvements are arranged. The records show that the pollution has decreased continuously. Thus, for cadmium in the dust precipitation, the limit value was observed at all measuring stations – with a single exception, that is, at the measuring point that is located directly at the factory site. With lead the situation looks slightly different, it still doesn't look so pink. There were also slight limit values at the measuring points outside the factory site in 2009. This fact, ladies and gentlemen, once again shows quite clearly that environmental sins committed once again have a negative effect on generations later. Dramatic, because the effects of the nuclear industry cannot be foreseen at all. All of us are talking about end-to-end deposits, as they can be found in the Federal Republic of Germany. The so-called end storage of irradiated material, however, is at best an intermediate storage of a few decades. In the case of nuclear waste, however, it should be thought in centuries, if not thousands. And I would like, Mr Federal Minister, to see you at European level to more closely address the aspect of unexplained final storage and the associated risks. Perhaps there is also a four-eye talk with your party colleague, our former Federal Chancellor, who today represents the German RWE group to speak to him in the conscience on this question. But not only nuclear waste is a huge problem, much more directly affects all the citizens of our state the problem with the new energy saving lamps, which would have to be disposed of as a special waste due to the mercury content. In my opinion, those responsible for the introduction of these energy saving lamps were sufficiently naïve, because in most European countries, it must be feared that these dangerous lamps will be disposed of with the normal domestic waste, which, of course, will cause our environment to suffer worse in the future. [[demostratetive appeal to the FPÖ]] A third and other aspect of your request concerns the fight against fine dust, and I may report that there is a groundbreaking invention in the district city of Spittal on the Drau. There is a very great entrepreneur, Anton Kluge, and he has invented a mobile fine dust filter device that is currently being tested at TU Graz for its fitness. The result can be anticipated: It works twice as much for vehicles, it is taken twice as much as the rear of the vehicle. And here, Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to provide the necessary funding for further practical testing. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, only these three aspects – nuclear waste storage, disposal of energy-saving lamps and fine dust control – show that the greens are slowly finding their roots with their theme, but thematically they may not or may not be quite the nerve of time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21364	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21385	Estimated Minister of State! Mr President. High house! School starters, holidays are over – and Mrs Brunner has come to believe that last July she did not really cooperate, that the IG air did not discuss and did not decide and somehow need to re-enter. [[Abg. May. Brunner: You didn't understand the questions!]] Now, Mrs Brunner has asked questions, and they themselves have not understood them, because they unfortunately do not have the basics to do so, and now we have to discuss them again. That's the whole subject. Today is green spectacle day: The streets were locked down. - Wonderful! Here in the High House there is a urgent request. - Wonderful! At the end of the day, the Minister for the Environment has to be quoted. - Wonderful! This is all the green creativity in politics! I can only say: Painful, embarrassing, embarrassing, far you have brought it, there you will win nothing more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's really annoyed: We have good solutions in Austria for many challenges. We have a lot of challenges in Europe and we need every good head. It's a shame that the green chief politicians here in the house are unable to bring in what is quite interested people outside here in this house. It's really annoyed! And I have to say: We deserved a better green party in this house. This condition is unbearable! [[Abg. Oillinger: We want your concerns!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have been given simple answers from the Federal Minister to a really simple matter, which everyone needs to understand. And I honestly don't know why we're discussing this right now. The only reason why this is likely to be so is the fact that it is obviously too difficult for Mrs Brunner to click on the Internet to connect to where she can read what she should have read in July. We also have the topic of ‘anti-atomic policy’. If the greens always... Yes, you can calm down. [[Abg. May. Treasure: Should we now talk about the quality of your political work and the quality of your speech?- Oh, my God!]] Let’s talk about the quality of today’s action “We lock the streets off”! Obviously, the Greens do not understand what really adapted policies are. All you think is: turn off, turn off, turn off, turn on! You can't agree because you can't differentiate. You're not taking a decision. You're either totally against it or just against it. This is the "spanning" of your policy! [[Abg. May. Honey: You just need to press a button, then you'll find our concepts!]] It's disappointing that this is all you have to contribute here. I would like – because today is the first day of the new conference period – that you start from the beginning again, that you can discuss legal matters with you again properly, that here comes an input from you, that you can then decide together again, so that the voters outside know what you are in here for. That's my request to you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm looking forward to the coming year, which can only get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21489	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21510	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was quite exciting, Hermann, to listen to you. On this occasion, however, I would also like to say something about our environmental policy, especially when we are talking about IG-air and other environmental issues. We have to be careful, because what will happen in Graz? It is not true that the cars that do not drive to Graz are suddenly scrapped. They're just going somewhere else. People buy somewhere else. You have to see that too. And it is the same if industrial companies are disassembled in Europe. They will then be built up somewhere in India without any environmental protection regulations, and then these products will be imported cheaply to Austria. We then lost our jobs and also have more pollution. That is, you have to be very smart about these questions. In principle, the following must be said for the purposes of dust pollution: There are quite different numbers for this. I looked at this on the Greens' homepage. There, a 52 percent share is the one that causes traffic. There is a study from Berlin that proves that in Berlin the proportion of individual transport in fine dust pollution is only 1 percent. The rest comes from industry and, above all, from the East. That is, this fine dust is not produced directly in Berlin, but it comes to Berlin depending on the weather situation. We also know this, Mr. Federal Minister – you were also a long councillor in Burgenland – within the framework of the ozone tax in the North of Burgenland and in Vienna: There, too, the northern neighbouring countries play a very, very important role. That is why many years ago there were discussions with the Slovak Environment Minister, who – and I was there at the time – told us quite openly that environmental policy in a country that is rising economically has only a small significance. I believe that we are therefore required to deal with the question of tariffs within the framework of our environmental policy, which we are doing. Because – I mentioned the example earlier –: Industrial plants are disassembled, without environmental impact in other countries being put into operation, and then we import cheaply. There is child labour there, social dumping, no environmental impact – and we then import the products without customs duties from there, so there is no way to intervene in this control. If we really want to move a lot in the environmental field, we can do this very well about the energy sector. And I am very much in favour of trying to achieve a renewable energy law in accordance with German model or to implement an eco electricity law that is to some extent passed by the cover as we have already discussed it. We have been negotiating this a number of months ago. I very much hope that we can now come to a stage where we can also decide on this new eco electricity law for Austria, because I am firmly convinced that very many jobs can be achieved for Austria in this area and that value added in the country will be essential. And the second – back to the topic of fine dust –: A very, very essential contaminant of fine dust, also in Graz, is of course the house fire. And we can reduce the house fire by installing better heating systems, but also doing a lot in thermal renovation. There is the successful example from the previous year, where we invested €100 million, so that €700 million in investment has been generated and nearly 10,000 jobs have been created. That means continuing this model, especially in a phase where there is a high level of unemployment, is certainly the right way. And I very much hope that this federal government will also be on this path. On green policy – Mr Schultes has mentioned this. I would like to say that in the Greens there are many representatives who really act green, like Mrs. Moser. Mrs. Dr. Moser is often met when you meet her in the city, just by bicycle. So, for me – and I have often said this to my friend – is a representative of environmental policy. Mrs. Dr. It's not glamorous for me. I can recall a debate here some time ago, in which I accused her of defaming the drivers and even driving the BMW in front of the house. She gave me the answer at the time: The car doesn't belong to her, it belongs to her husband. That is, if you really make environmental policy credible – and I don't demand it from everyone,... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's not true either, Mr. Hofer!]] Of course! I even called her husband. He has confirmed to me that the car belongs to him, and he said I'd rather leave his wife alone. And she also heats up, Mrs. Colleague, in her Vienna apartment with gas. You should know that, too. And when she is seen in the early morning with the golf bag in front of the car, she will probably go to the golf course, I assume – a sport that is not very resource-saving. But I say again: Many here or most of the Greens live that way. Mrs Glavischnig certainly does not do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21550	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21587	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the personal CO2 balance can be presented to you by the colleague Glavischnig. Let's talk about it. In fact, the general issue must be to discuss the overall implementation weakness of our Environment Minister. The problem of fine dust – the subject of the inquiry – is only an example of this. Mr Umweltminister, I know that you are already relatively limited in your competences. Let's go through it in a row: Nuclear policy: Yes, you can always appeal. You can drive to your neighbors. You can try to close alliances. – You will not even be able to develop a real commitment in your brother party in Germany, the CDU, and enforce a string of action, the farewell takes place from the outdated nuclear milestone policy. [[Abg. May. Brunner: Not even in your own party!]] No, you don't have any implementation skills – enforcement power here either! Let us take a second example. Name: For the energy transition you are advertised in numerous newspapers – it is really admirable! – from the nature reserve over the Alpenverein, across the other small media far and wide. So at Public Relations, you're perfect. Only: When it comes to really doing something, Minister, then unfortunately you are small. Let me give you another example: Rehabilitation check. Mr Hofer has already mentioned it: The thermal renovation – not only a win-win project, but also economic and employment policy. We have been working in this direction for a long time, with Mr Grossruck and now Mr Singer of the ÖVP. Only: It is always blocked up at ministerial level. And you're in the cabin. Do something so that your colleagues will finally put environmental action in this direction. The next thing I do before I come to the fine dust is transport policy. Mr Minister, you are always right to say that the CO2 problem is primarily a traffic problem. Yeah, just... The Minister Bures continues to pursue a motorway construction policy, at the request of the ÖVP heads of state as well as the SPÖ heads of state – and you are looking forward to this, Mr. Minister! Since I have now encircled that area where you are not directly competent, where you are watching, we are now going to the area where you are competent, to the IG air. You are, as it were, the initiator of this law novel, and you also have to provide for the implementing regulation. And what are you doing? – Instead of really doing something where you could finally do something where you would have to be heal-free to be able to lay hands now, where you could, so to speak, let your entire environmental muscles play, push it out there. You push it out, and you argue it very well today, saying: We need an assessment period, we need the opportunity to involve everyone in some way, and that should be realistic, and the drivers should not be overrun! I accept all of this from your EIA view, but from the environmental point of view I cannot accept it because: It really is about the health of people, it is about the population, also in Graz, but not only in Graz, because there are also difficulties in Vienna, partly also in Linz. And I know that it is unpopular to make cuts and restrictions in the transport sector. I have kept you in the process of introducing the environmental zones. I know that there has been a very controversial discussion here in Parliament. Only: Do it now! I don't understand why, for example, you're just blind in the single-track vehicles. There's no plaque in there at all. In the case of single-track vehicles, especially where there are replacements – e-mobility, bicycles, mopeds, motorcycles – the “sleighers” – under quotation marks – are not at all covered with posters, it is not planned that restrictions could also be provided there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is why I am really personally disappointed that, where you finally have skills, you can and must do something again, only half-hearted are at work, Mr Minister. Do show that you have enforcement will and power in your core areas, show them! With your answer you have unfortunately proved the opposite to us, and with your personal opinion today too. – But it is already a great level difference between you and Mr Schultes. This is to be underlined three times, Minister. You can still reach him by at least three sizes à la Bartenstein. Mr Schultes, finally to you: Let's do thermal rehabilitation together! Our request is here. Together we make housing promotion, tax improvement in housing savings! Our request is here. I can give you ten more and more requests, which you keep adjourning. Specific environmental policy – immediately, Mr Schultes –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schultes]] Our proposals are on the table. Don't talk to me like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21672	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21693	Mr President. High house! The answer to the question by the Minister for the Environment was not a very luxuriant one. But this is what we are used to from this government that they are dealing with specific questions – see also: Budget preparations – often very unspeakable or form it positively! – has only modest answers for Members. But now on the topic “Immission Protection Act Air”. What happened? – Well, Austria was first of all a model in this field, a pioneer, a model student in the EU, and we then gave this model student role in the novel of July this year and adapted ourselves to the normal standard, which is also good and right. But we will not be able to resolve this issue if the SPÖ goes on the Greens and also the EIA, in a somewhat similar way, on the Greens or on the opposition, or anyone else, but we can only solve this issue if we really make policy with measure and objective here, because it is a symbiosis of environmental policy and economic policy. And if you don't understand this, you'll eventually be at risk of the location here in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, Arnoldstein – and this was clearly explained in the answer to the question; it was quite a bit positive – not the stress from the operation on the subject, but the basic loads caused by the environment. You have to take note of that. But on the topic of IG-L, environmental zones: We have discussed the subject of “environmental zones” very intensively, and I repeat: What measures, ladies and gentlemen, do we have to put in place a head of state? What can he do with fine dust? – It may impose driving bans, it may impose speed limits, and it may regulate environmental zones. Let's go, let's go! That's what it was. And what do the experiences from Germany tell us? – The fact that these environmental zones ultimately do not even bring something measurable. It is only the citizens who are being harassed. They get pickerl, they get announcements that they have to check on the Internet whether at all the environmental zone is active, and ultimately they often even produce the opposite – we have discussed it too – because these particularly environmentally friendly vehicles at PM2.5 are quite more harmful than older vehicles that may have PM 10. That is, the fine, lung dust is ultimately the extreme burden for the citizens. This is what you want to order Graz now and in fact also leaves the Grazers and thus also the head of state there in the rain. Then: The causes of this missing policy are not with the countries, but mainly with federal policy. I'll get it to the point: With the IG-L you only fight the effects, the symptoms, but you do not fight the causes. The causes are a missing energy policy, a missing environmental policy and a missing transport policy. Then: Industrial policy – and I have to mention this – has changed very much in Austria. The industry has provided very strong intermediate services. In order to achieve transport policy, a number of examples have been given: The topic of e-mobility, the development of public transport. Yes, where are the networked programmes of the federal government - this is not you, Mr Minister, that concerns your colleagues - with the countries, with the municipalities? - You're not here! And this can also be found on all levels. Therefore, I think we have to put up much higher here, that we finally have to fight the causes and not the symptoms. And finally, this includes the anti-atomic policy of this government, which is not present. The “Kronen Zeitung” of tomorrow titled – I quote –: ‘Germany: New atomic nonsense. Merkel wants to privatize end-to-end warehouses and abolish security control authorities.” – Quotes. Yes, imagine that once. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. New builder: This is really crazy!]] We then have free movement of goods in Austria and in the EU, and we have free broadcasting in the EU, and nobody cares about it anymore! – That’s where I expect an uproar from this federal government, and I also expect that this government will not see how its former Federal Chancellor has a great job with an atomic group. It's not easy for him – that's one thing. Whether it is morally compatible to sit here and at the same time to decide on government programmes that are promoting anti-atomic policies is a second question, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] But the right question is: What is this government doing against this missing anti-atomic policy in the EU? - She's not doing anything! It pays a good 40, 60, 80 million for Euratom to keep the scrap reactors alive in Eastern Europe. It is looking at, even in Upper Austria, now, like the Czech Republic with old laws, EU-laws, with an old EIA law, two more nuclear milestones are established in Temelín, because, as citizens, one cannot make any objections that can ultimately be checked through court. She fails here on all levels. A sentence to the Janecek judgment. Here it is said, Minister, that would be the margin of discretion in the implementation of the EU directives. But this is about fundamental civil rights. There are not many ways to implement the IG-L anyway. But if there are opportunities to strengthen citizens' rights, then we must do so at all levels. That's what the Aarhus Convention says. Do this with gene policy, do it in nuclear policy, and do so in the air and IG-L policy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21775	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. [[18:34:50]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 43 to 45 and 48 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 19 to 21 (800 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21805	We will resume the negotiations on the agenda and we will now proceed to their 6. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Neubauer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21833	Mr President. My position on the Committee on Petitions and the outcome of this Committee on Petitions is, I believe, widely known in this House. It is just too little for me to assume that there are hundreds of petitions, which usually fail to find the way into the relevant specialist committees. In my opinion, this direct democratic means are still too little strengthened and often become the football of the political parties. That is why I have especially chosen a game from the results of this Committee on Petitions, because I believe that this result is a substitute for many to show how to deal with legitimate citizens' interests. It was a staging: It has complained to 750 000 people that, due to wild speculations on the financial markets, their second pension column has suffered losses of up to 45 percent in recent years, and have therefore confidently turned to parliamentarians in order to make a petition and, subsequently, also associated a lawsuit with it at the Constitutional Court. – Well, it didn’t go much further in the beginning. I got in touch with all the parties, and no one wanted to do so right. Suddenly, Mr Broukal, a former Member of this House, who is a member of SPÖ, invited the ORF, brought him to the President of the National Council – and suddenly there was a start in the parties. In front of the ORF one has shown that one is willing to do something. Substantiation of the petition has taken place, greatly raised. In the meantime, 20 months have passed, a working group has not caused anything, and the question of 750 000 injured has still not been dealt with, has not actually been implemented in accordance with the wishes of those injured. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot deal with citizens' wishes. And I'll tell you again: There is still no possibility for these damaged people – despite damage! – to actually change a pension fund. There is still no possibility for these people – although they must have lost confidence in such a pension fund – to actually take out the money to prevent further damage from their account. And there is still no possibility of the Republic of Austria taking on at least – which has made it most generous for all banks – a small cover for this damage suffered by these people. The would be the minimum, as I believe, for 750,000 people in this country who are injured! And when I think about it, ladies and gentlemen, that today the media are spirited, that Mr Profumo has to leave the bank in Austria and is finished with €40 million, then I really find the horror when we consider that our own people in this country – 750 000 in number – are abandoned by this federal government. You should be ashamed of that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21890	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21911	Mr Presdent! Ladies and gentlemen! This time, the present Committee's collective report comprises a total of seven petitions and citizens' initiatives, and the topics range from animal welfare to transport policy issues to gambling and a petition that has already been mentioned, from the association of pension funds and four parties, with the demand for a more transparent, comprehensible and secure pension fund system. The fact that the third report is already available within a year is possible, inter alia, through constructive cooperation in the Committee and also through the fact that I believe it is being worked on developing this important committee into an instrument of direct democracy. Suggestions for a possible change in the positioning of the Committee could be obtained on a visit to the German Bundestag. We, the petition speakers, had the opportunity to discuss experiences with the German colleagues during an information visit to Berlin in June. In Germany, the Internet portal “E-Petitionen” was established for the public in 2008, making it easier for citizens to submit petitions, support them by signing up the Internet and discuss them in forums. I think that this has created a new basis for establishing a rapid and transparent link between the population and Parliament. The impressive use of the right of petition in the form of a very high number of e-petitions, subscriptions and contributions in discussions indicates how important and necessary this form of citizen participation is. I also believe that the possibility of petitions being given to the public in the event of a corresponding high offer is an opportunity for discussion. At this point, thank you again to the Parliament's Directorate for this interesting exchange with colleagues in Germany! This has resulted in suggestions that can now also be taken into account in our field of work, particularly in order to strengthen the right of petition as an increased exchange between citizens and MEPs, because with the petitions and citizens' initiatives, people express their real concerns and concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21945	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e21968	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lohfeyer, you have already pointed out the exchange visit with the German Bundestag. If we are talking about petitions and citizens' initiatives, this will usually happen in this House at a later hour, mostly without public attention, and this should really give us a very strong thought, because the difference, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, is so blatant, namely the difference, Mr Strutz, between the procedure in the German Bundestag and the procedure with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strutz]] I call you a very specific problem from my point of view. A major problem is that every petition in Austria needs Members to be brought into the house at all. It's just not up to date. I'm sorry, at the time of Franz Joseph and the first Parliament here... [[Abg. Amon: No, don't!]] That's right! [[Abg. Amon: 500 signatures...!]] This is a citizens' initiative! Mr Amon, this is not a petition, it is a citizens' initiative. There is this possibility that 500 citizens can start an initiative. [[Abg. Amon: Exactly!]] I'll talk to you later. But a petition, for example a community, for example a representative of interests, for example simply concerned citizens, can be very well brought in in the German Bundestag. Mr Lohfeyer has just reported on this: There is the possibility of online petitions to make this petition public as well. When 50,000 signatures are available, these petitions will be discussed publicly, in a public hearing with the petitioner, with experts and representatives of the government groups. Mr Amon, this is another way of parliamentarianism, a way of taking the citizens seriously. I should also like to thank Parliament's management, especially President Prammer and all the staff of the House who have enabled us to exchange this information. Yes, that was a very constructive and good exchange, also with the colleagues from the other political groups. But that's why it's all the more important that we don't let go of this. That is one point, and it would be my greatest effort and also my request to the ÖVP and SPÖ colleagues, especially at least the possibilities already offered by the Rules of Procedure, to make offensive use of them. As chairman, Mr Haubner has always supported this positively. We recently had the first hearing with petitioners, in the context of the new school, and I still believe that this was an excellent hearing. That was a serious take, and that is possible at any time. This is a petition, namely the petition concerning reform of the pension fund law. Ladies and gentlemen, these are so essential questions – Mr Neubauer has already raised this issue – that hundreds of thousands of people are affected and it is incomprehensible why we simply end this here. This would have been a classic example of an expert hearing, for a hearing in the petition committee. If that were not enough, we would have had to continue to debate it in Parliament, in the respective committees, more constructively. [[Abg. Oils: They don't want that because then some unpleasant things would come out!]] That's it, my colleague. That's why it was about an open, objectively motivated discourse. You have to look at who brought it in. Mr Oellinger, the tension is that there were four parties. In this petition, even the government fractions were there, but even if they bring it in themselves, they are not willing to carry out such a hearing. So, please, they should not make any more petitions at all in the future if they are not even willing to treat their own petitions seriously in this House. I think that the House, the Austrian Parliament, would be well advised to strengthen these citizens' rights and to further increase the transparency of the House. I am already aware that the German Bundestag has other resources. But we could also seriously examine the possibilities of the online petition and then implement the possibilities that this instrument has in a serious discourse. This is still possible within the framework of parliamentary possibilities, even if one cannot cover it with such a valuable professional service, as is the case in the German Bundestag, and with so many officials will be able to cover it. But I'm convinced that's the right direction. We will continue to do this. Let us look at the petitions that were still on the agenda! – There were three citizens’ initiatives, of which I only call one, namely those relating to the connection of brechath in the transport network with the tram. This is an important question of transport infrastructure, is climate protection relevant, is a really difficult question of federal competence, national competence, these are always interface issues – please, if not in the Transport Committee, where else should such a citizens' initiative land in order to be dealt with there also with with by experts? Last but not least: I am convinced that we should develop the Usen petition committee to deal more efficiently with citizens' concerns. I am also convinced that we need a change in the Rules of Procedure in this area. We will continue to discuss this and in this respect, I hope to exchange constructively with each other in order to examine, for example, how cooperation can continue to be deepened in the interests of the citizens of that country, in the context of the next round of petitions with the People's Procuratorate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22054	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22075	Mr President. High house! I would like to thank the political groups which have already spoken, for this cross-party agreement and for their efforts to reform the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives and thus to make a positive further development. This is, of course, in my group's interest, not a question. I would also like to thank the Parliament's Directorate, who supported our information visit to the petition committee of the German Bundestag. It is true that we have been able to take a lot of things there, including much that contains suggestions, which we can also implement very positively in our Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. I also believe that we should examine online petitions. These are instruments that are strange to us but, I think, would certainly be good for this committee in the future in the sense of upgrading it. It is, however, – and I have to mention that – that there are great business differences between the German Petitions Committee and the Austrian Committee on Petitions. It is important here to filter out precisely what is to be done in the best way possible for us to implement business rules, in the interests of the citizens and, above all, in the interests of being able to discuss their concerns best here in the House. Today, as has been said, there are seven concerns about the debate in plenary with the collective report. I will focus briefly on the issues of agriculture – only briefly, because time is very short. I am particularly pleased that very young people have dealt with these issues and that a petition has been brought in by a matura class of the trade academy Graz on the topic “Stop the land-traffic animal transports!”. The opinions of the Ministries also deal very clearly with this issue, a problem which, of course, has been discussed most intensively in the Committee on Agriculture in the past, with measures also being put in place and, in particular, has been pointed out by the Ministry of Agriculture that only in the breeding cattle sector an export refund is granted and slaughter beef exports are not supported. The Ministry of Health also considers that Austria plays a central role in the transit sector and that the provisions in the field of animal welfare can only be applied on a national basis to national transports, intra-Austrian transports. International transport is subject to Community provisions and can only be controlled accordingly. Important opinions have also been submitted by the Ministries in the citizens' initiative to improve the animal welfare situation of pig farming in Austria. It is also clear from this that discussions and proposals for further development of animal welfare matters are open – always taking into account the economic possibilities of agriculture, because farmers of course have to implement such measures. [[Abg. May. Brunner: What does that mean?]] I have something very positive to announce: The association of Austrian pig farmers has already worked intensively on the solution of pain elimination in the piglets castration, and implementation is planned shortly. Farmers are very interested in providing the best possible work in the sense of society. That is why I am deeply concerned about a very woman-reserving issue of the women's minister, who went through the APA on Monday. I can't even quote the subtitles here because I think he's not worthy in his text of this House, but maybe a textual passage that reflects the original tone of the Minister of Women: “Not only in the sex sector,” no, in the subtitle, “even in the household or in agriculture, women are often traded like slaves.” I am deeply disappointed that a women's minister also introduces agriculture, the host sector and the housewives, two professional groups and the housewives, in a way that is totally unworthy that is discriminatory. [[Call the ÖVP: A scandal!]] Of course, the preparation of an issue which is certainly an important topic of women is necessary, but in this way it is not justified in any way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am opposed to such statements by the Minister for Women, also here at this point, and I think that a withdrawal of this statement would definitely be appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22145	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22166	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to expressly welcome the empty seats on the government bank, because that is simply quite unheard of. But it is every time it comes to the Committee on Petitions. It must be borne in mind that it is really a direct instrument of democracy, and there is no interest in anyone from the government, which accusations, which suggestions, which complaints come from the people here. That's just not how it's going! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This shows that citizens' proximity to this government is really not given. Closeness to the citizen is only possible if the citizen's voice counts in the election. There you throw yourself among the population, there you are all at once those who listen. But otherwise, when it comes to concerns and complaints, you hear and see nothing. I must say that the whole criticism of my predecessors at the Committee on Petitions has nothing to do with the obsessive, but actually with the process in the government towards this completely unloved and backward committee. Something just has to happen here. Germany has already been mentioned several times today. It is true that there the Committee on Petitions has become a barometer to the government from a purely citizen's point of view and rarely questioned committee, as told by the chairman there, because there you can see how the laws, regulations and also the decisions in the government and through the administration affect the citizens and what you can change. Mrs. Hellerer, your colleague Marek has also put it: It's different too! You also believe that this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives should be amended and upgraded. Please do so, however, so that you do not always vote in committee if the SPÖ agrees to take note, because this is a funeral of first rank for every petition, or that we can get rid of it in a collective report. I very much hope that this committee will actually be upgraded. As now, there is no proximity to citizens, and so there is no service for the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22210	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Spadiut. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22231	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The petition 48 introduced by me calls for the stop of long-haul animal transports. She was handed over to me by students of the Matura class at the Monsbergergasse Trade Academy in Graz. I find it remarkable that young people who themselves have enough problems with their future are still interested in the problems of animals. Austria plays a major role as a transit country for international animal transport. We probably have very strict animal transport restrictions in Austria, for example a limitation of the transport time to four and a half hours. However, this only applies to transports whose origin and destination are in Austria, not to international transports. Free movement of goods is a fundamental freedom of the European Union within the Member States. That is why restrictions are difficult to carry out. A proposal for the revision of this regulation on animal transport has come across deaf ears in the EU. But we shouldn't stop trying. One way would be to question why living animals are even referred to as commodities. I see no reason to call living beings a commodity. We should enforce a change in the definition of live animals in the EU. Then animals would not be goods, we could therefore circumvent the regulation and enforce provisions to limit transport times. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the EU, there are very certain Community provisions to prevent the damage or suffering of animals in the transport sector. There are a number of controls in Austria. Only these controls are usually carried out by local animal transports, which usually adhere strictly to the rules, and international animal transports are usually a very low percentage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] One reason for this is that the controls are usually carried out at the slaughterhouses, where only domestic transports arrive, and the penalty in these transports is already very high for minor offenses. Ladies and gentlemen, we should promote animal transport controls! The number of controls is too small – not because the will is not present, but because there are too few control bodies and because the positioning of the control bodies is wrongly chosen. I would like to remind you of a request from the BZÖ calling for checks on the old, dissolved border crossings. There would be an efficient control. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take the petition of these young people seriously, and let us look at this problem in detail in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22288	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is particularly important. This is an important opportunity, I believe, to encourage people to get involved and to get involved in the political debate very often. I therefore strongly believe that all citizens' initiatives and petitions that come into this committee should be treated equally. Unfortunately, this is not the case at present. Some are simply taken note of, some are assigned to a committee and then really debated in terms of content. It is important to me – whether I support a citizens' initiative or petition or not. I think every citizen and citizen who makes the effort to take up a topic, get involved and collect signatures has deserved to be here in the National Council or in the committees, and we certainly also have the courage to express our opposition if that has to be. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – You don’t even discuss it, just so you don’t have to reject it! If I look at a few petitions or citizens' initiatives now, for example, I see one that is about increasing the speed limit on a highway from 50 km/h to 70 km/h. – I think this is not very positive for reasons that we have discussed before – fine dust, health pollution and so on. But I still mean that we should discuss this here, too, when someone collects signatures and brings in a petition. We will also express our opinion on this. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] In connection with other petitions and citizens' initiatives addressed by Mr Spadiut, I think it is very great if, above all, students make the effort to get involved in a topic. In this case, it was about pig farming. I did not understand at all why we do not treat this in the Committee on Health. This is also about animal welfare, and there is a similar request from the Greens, which is identical in content, on the agenda. . I think it would have been respectful to these pupils, whose concerns to debate there, as well as to animal transport. I believe that we should continue to develop the opportunities for citizens to get involved, instead of making sure that a representative of the government parties or opposition parties has also been involved in further treatment. I think it is nothing more frustrating for a citizen or a citizen if they have made the effort to bring this whole thing to Parliament if it is not treated any further. People rightly have a certain expectation that their concerns will be taken seriously, and so we should deal with them very sensitively and meet these expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22364	Next speaker: Mr Keck. His speaking time is also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22385	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If today were not the urgent ones of the Greens and the short debate, then the item on the agenda would have taken place at 3 p.m. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I can't! At 3 p.m. this would never have gone out!]] In other words, this point would have been dealt with once at a time that is really appropriate, because earlier on the agenda items that had petitions on the subject were always dealt with in this House at around 23 o'clock or 24 o'clock. That is to say, it is already a huge progress that we have managed to make the item on the agenda, on which petitions and citizens' initiatives are addressed, really preferable on the agenda. Dear colleague Brunner, at the petition 48 of the students of the Federal Trade Academy in Graz, Monsbergergasse, it was about the removal of subsidies for long-distance animal transport, and we have made the real effort to ask the ministries in question, namely the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, for comments, and the opinions have shown us quite clearly that there are no subsidies for animal transport in Austria. The problem, which exists, is that we unfortunately have no right to act in Austria for foreign carriers receiving subsidies. This issue concerns countries which are not members of the European Union, for example, but also countries which are members of the European Union which grant these subsidies. You can only say: The animal transport controls in Austria are very strict. In 2000, there were 1,500 animal transport checks on the road. This means that there are many animal transport controls. Austria is really trying to look at it. In this regard, we have taken care to achieve a high level and to have the best animal transport law worldwide, also to keep and control it accordingly. It is really important, however, what Mr Spadiut said – and I am also right for the students of the German Trade Academy in Graz – to ensure within the EU that subsidies for long-distance animal transport are removed, that this cannot and should not be done in the future in the EU and worldwide.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22422	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22443	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is really very nice to have participated in a Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiative. If one hears the speeches made by the Members of the Government, it is quite interesting that it is said that petitions and citizens' initiatives are super and immensely important, but if one looks at the whole thing, one has to realize that in all three citizens' initiatives a request for completion by taking note of SPÖ and ÖVP was made and, of course, adopted. In a citizens' initiative, there are thousands of signatures of partially committed and non-politically blatant citizens who have a real difficulty – as all previous speakers have done well from the opposition – and have a certain expectation. In this respect, I am very much with Mr Brunner. The citizens bring this into Parliament and are bitterly disappointed. Thousands of signatures are placed here. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is satisfied with a Lapidar opinion by the Federal Ministry. There is no opportunity to do so by assigning it to the right committee so that the Minister can then be talked to in the clear text about certain concerns of citizens. I think it is a shame to think here in plenary that this is the most important thing in the world, and that we are so happy to have this committee, but in the Committee it is quite different! I am actually worthless in this regard. This is about animal transport, about tram projects or road projects, and all of this is important, and one can of course appreciate which parties this comes from and is supported. However, I do not think it is a matter of dealing with this in the Committee and simply pushing these citizens' initiatives, so to speak, and contenting with opinions. In part, the comments made here by taking note of them are a joke! This applies, for example, to the Citizens' Initiative No. 21 to. To this end, BMVIT has found that the Weinviertler highway has no bottlenecks, although in the event of accidents there is even the signs: ‘Please keep the bottlenecks free!’ So it's really a farce, which is delivered here! One preaches how important, how great and how super citizen initiatives are, but in principle everything is shubbled and suppressed, and certainly more than 50 percent are not allocated to the committee in question, where it would actually belong, whether transport or agriculture. You can see that again and again. For example, before elections like those in the Styria ahead, 20 times the day from this direction can be “Voves! ” and 20 times from this direction “Schützhofer! ” [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] It doesn't matter. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Who is this?]] But if you are dealing with the interests of citizens in this way, you need not be surprised when fewer and fewer people are going to vote and the citizens are becoming more and more politically drowned! I mean, you have to understand this somehow, because this way thousands of citizens are treated badly, who are really bothering themselves, go and collect signatures and often stand outside in the wind and weather and advertise in citizens. – However, this will be dealt with in ten minutes with a clap, a request for notice will be made, and you will hear – schwuppdiwupp! – never again. I only hope that in a few days the government parties will be able to receive the receipt from the electorate and only a few votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22486	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22507	Mr President. High house! Just like my dear previous speaker: They have said that the concerns of the citizens are being shoved in the Committee. My perception is that this is not the case! Of course, not all wishes can be done positively. Why? – Because, in turn, the interests of other citizens are opposed. We here bear the responsibility to weigh off. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Listen, you have to smile!]] We have at least a few listeners on the gallery. [[Abg. Oils: They'll be gone as well!]] Welcome! It's about you. It is about all citizens, and I hope you won't be gone! My Appeal It is: They may participate directly in the legislation. Take advantage of your rights and take advantage of this opportunity! To the address of the FPÖ, to the criticism of your Member, Neubauer, who, unfortunately, is now turning to me, he said we were only interested in the petition of the protection association of pension funders when the ORF announced itself. – There can be no talk of that if I can say so salopp. The opposite is the case! For more than a year, the senior government has been fighting for the interests of pension funders. The General Seniors Council has even adopted a resolution supporting these concerns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] Wait! You want to know where this concern is. Good. What is the solution? – We need fair and clear rules, we want more transparency, we want to make the system as crisis-proof as possible. How far are the consultations? That is probably the most important question. – In summer, the data was collected. They are now being analysed, and – at present – the discussions of the Senior Council with pension fund associations are going to the final. We expect an agreement at this level in the near future. That's positive. Then we need a reform of the pension fund law quickly. Then politicians are in the interest of a fair retirement provision for as many Austrians as possible on the train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22569	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22591	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleagues, if the senior government cannot enforce itself, then you do not have to address your speech to Members of the new builder, but to the SPÖ, because obviously there are problems in the coalition that this is not enforced! The fact is that this is more of a petition, which is being ended here today and which gives rise to the government's only conditional interest, as I see on the government bank. We also have a very good animal welfare law, but unfortunately we need to note that implementation is sometimes lacking. Petitions No. 48 shows us, for example, that every student already knows that there are problems with long distance animal transport in Austria. And the association Tier-Wege, to which I would like to thank again for his work on this occasion, shows again and again on his homepage where, in the case of checks, there are always defects, where trucks travel through Austria and transports happen, in which animals suffer terrible suffering. The most recent incident: The driver makes his break and takes care of himself at the motorway seat, as is naturally necessary for a driver who makes a break. However, he forgets the animals in the back of the truck completely. They suffer from the heat, and although they should be able to drink constantly, he does not even use the break to supply the animals with drinking water. The Animal Protection Act would allow us to seize and auction the animals or even the trucks in the event of gross violations. Such a drastic step might lead to a rethinking of the transporters. This is possible with cigarette smuggling, but not with our animals! When I read the petition No. At least 20 people can talk about equal treatment. We have the petition No. 20, in which students were involved, were not treated more closely and did not go to the committee to discuss it, but we have prominent supporters such as Deix and Holecek, the petition No. 20 have also signed, nor have they taken into account, and will they be “completed ” today. And finalization means as much as I throw it into the dunk. After that, there is no more discussion. A petition can only be treated seriously if it is assigned to the committee responsible and discussed there. But we must first want to do that, and there must be a political will to do so. I'm saying, If we deal with the interests of the citizens in this way and do not treat them in this way or, more precisely, we must not be surprised if the citizens lose confidence in politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22633	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22654	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, a lot has already been said by my previous speakers. At least something is verbal to us, namely that we want to upgrade this committee. The opposition, however, sees this a little different from the government parties. As an opposition politician, I say: For me, upgrading means that we do as little as possible here in the collective report and, instead, bring as much as possible into the relevant specialist committees, because there is the possibility of discussing the right and necessary concerns that citizens have, also with the relevant members of the government, and of seeking solutions there. In principle, however, there is a good approach. The members of this committee have a very good basis for discussion, and it is evident from the diversity of the various petitions and citizens' initiatives that people have regional and special concerns over and over again. A concern, namely the reform of the pension fund system, has already been raised today, has been expressed and discussed. And I really can't understand that if four parties sign this, we're just taking note of it today at 7 pm. It should be noted that the issue is really very sensitive, and the discussions of the past months and weeks especially in the field of pensions show that this really concerns people. In this respect, politics should give people confidence, especially when it comes to creating, in addition to the secure state pension, the second and third pillars in a system that is sustainable and future-proof. We are talking about thousands of pensioners, especially those who had so-called old contracts before 2003, because the new contracts have created a solution. It is now necessary to find a solution quickly. If we look at the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs of April 2010, it is clear that it is word-identifiable: It will work “on a timely and satisfactory solution” for pensioners. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Where is the solution?]] What do we have now? It's almost October, and you don't hear anything, and you can't see anything! It is gratifying, colleague Aubauer, to say that the senior government is so active in this regard. We don't hear anything either! I believe that this is also a good example of our having a government in which there is a standstill, not only in budgetary policy regarding families and at many other levels, but also in terms of security in old age. In the debate, my previous speakers said a few words about changes or upgradings of the Committee on Petitions. I'm all over that! Together we have made a look over the borders and have seen how in other countries – in Germany – it can go. We have our right to set up a committee, which has been enshrined in the Rules of Procedure since 1988, and I believe, therefore, that it is actually legitimate to check whether this is still up-to-date. Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned the fact that the right of citizens, a petition, not a citizens' initiative, to bring in a Member's initiative, came from the period of monarchy when it was not common for the citizen to come directly to the emperor. But I mean, the times of the monarchy have long passed. [[I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Greens on his report.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] I've got the quiet suspicion that we're going to introduce so many things over the back door again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Therefore, together, all five parties, we should strive to upgrade the Committee on Petitions and really make it a platform, put on the paper and discuss issues, which will then also come to the public in order for people to understand certain situations. In this sense, we should make a change as soon as possible. Citizens can only make a petition if they have reached the appropriate age of election. This also applies to citizens' initiatives. Citizens' initiatives need at least 500 signatures. Where I see the need for action, we can only bring citizens' initiatives and petitions in writing and not in electronic form. That's, I'd say, back-end, and we should do something quickly. I've been looking at: In 2006, Mr Wurm – I do not know if you remember, Mrs Colleague – submitted a request on electronic petitions. I have also read through the opinion at that time, and I think we will start again and hope that everyone will really support it. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, SPÖ and Greens.]] What really pleased me and us in Germany – Mr Pirklhuber has already said – were these public petitions. If it is a matter of general interest, it can be discussed on the Internet and, above all, signed. So this is happening in a very simple and unproblemative way. There are public meetings, particularly in public petitions, and there must also be members of the government, or so-called specialist politicians. I assume that government members are specialist politicians. There were 25 committee meetings in Germany last year. So you see, the Committee on Petitions is working very intensively there. I am aware that we cannot now implement everything 1 : 1 from today to tomorrow – it has already been suggested that there is a much better personnel equipment in Germany with officials – but we should nevertheless take individual steps. There will only be a change in the Rules of Procedure, something else will not be possible. That is why I would like to thank Parliament's management very much for creating a paper, a basis for us to see what legal possibilities for further development we currently have, where we have to start, so we know what we are talking about. What we now want to strengthen in agreement with all five parties is that we are working more closely with the public prosecutors, because the public prosecutors are also an institution for citizens, and we do not need to work in parallel. No one is a competition for the other, but we can complement ourselves very well. The People's Procuratorate in particular also has access to the public. We have invited all three prosecutors to the next meeting and will see what we can improve together for citizens in the future. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of this committee, I would like to strengthen, above all, the means of direct democracy, including popular desire and referendums, petitions and citizens' initiatives, and above all to facilitate access and to strengthen the public. We do not come around, as has been said, to reform the Rules of Procedure. It is in all our interest to create a platform where concerns can be brought where you listen, where you can see problems where solutions are proposed, so that the citizen does not feel that he has been very committed, but that has not been used in the final effect. I don't want that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22731	The next speaker was Mr Tadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22753	Mr President. High house! I really can only congratulate my committee chairman on the words she finally found. We're not going to come around to change the GO. We've heard honest words, thanks. This is balsam. That sounds very good. Nevertheless, the citizens' initiatives are not taken seriously. Mr Zinggl, I think, was very, very disappointed at the last committee meeting about how things are going about. Citizens' desires are brought in with tens of thousands of signatures. And then what happens? – A collection report ends up in the roundtable. Sometimes it really hurts when you see something like that and when something like that happens. As the agenda points out, it is always a matter of concern to get to the plenary. All seven petitions of the last committee meeting have made it today, nevertheless – what a lucky case!; the lucky number seven probably –, made to the High House! We are waiting for comments from this or that, as we have already heard. They usually come to the committee late. This calls for representatives of interest who are equipped with compulsory membership contributions, ministries are switched on, or concerns are equal to or are rejected by another committee. It's just going to get over people, and that hurts. These are real citizens' concerns and their securitised right to direct democracy. However, as we have heard before, this right has only one toothless forum, our nice petition committee. It went faster, as we have already heard – we heard from a German delegation in spring – by going online. Conlusio: The colleagues in the Federal Republic of Germany are already there. The Germans are online, we are not. They've been online since 2008. As Mr Pirklhuber has already said, there is no difference between Parliamentarians in the case of citizens' petitions and complaints in the form of a petition. and the citizen as a petent. This e-petition system works as already said. Why don't we do that? Mr Lohfeyer has also mentioned this. The government parties – both! – could do that. What about us in Austria? – Whoever has a concern, we have heard that too, needs the right form, the many signatures, and it doesn't do anything. Proposals for a resolution will be drawn up and recommendations adopted. An e-Petition would be the basis for a rapid and transparent link between the population and Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So it was easy. Why don't we pick it up? Why don't we make it more efficient and transparent? Why don't we do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22807	Next speaker. Mr Wenninger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22828	Mr President. High house! The criticism of the work of the Committee on Petitions, the improvements that have now been made by a number of colleagues and summarized by the Committee president, Mr Haubner, are, of course, a challenge for the Committee as a whole. They have our approval, as the SPÖ's proposals show for greater transparency, for easier direct access and for citizens' proximity. I would like to thank our group chairman, Rosa Lohfeyer, as well as you, Mrs Haubner, who is leading this committee very well and who is trying to get to the bottom of it. You differ very well in your political work from some of your male colleagues. I consider the Committee's work to be particularly important because it is a committee dealing with a wide range of issues of public interest. That is why I cannot understand why some opposition colleagues and some opposition colleagues are so humble, partly helpless in dealing with the work in the Committee on Petitions. Every petition, every citizens' initiative will be discussed in this committee, opinions will be obtained, they will be answered, and every subject will be taken to the House. Today, we also have various topics in the collection report, from animal transport to piglets castration to tram to Schwechat. All of these citizens are today being debated in the National Council's plenary session, so there is no talk of dungy, rounding or funeral of the first class. In conclusion, Ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Hellerer's speech hit me deeply. I am as shocked at your remarks, as you have suggested, to be shocked at the statements made by the Minister for Women. I have so far assumed that there is a basic political consensus in the High House and in Austrian politics that we are all in common against trafficking in human beings, against exploitation, against slavery, in whatever area, in Austria, in Europe and worldwide. That is what social democracy stands for, and I call on the ÖVP to represent this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22859	As the next speaker, I should like to speak to the honourable Member. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22880	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Just briefly to the comments made by my predecessor: Mr Wenninger, you have referred to Mrs Höllerer's comments. I think we already agree that we condemn all these acts. However, it is a question of Mrs. State Secretary or Mrs. Federal Minister for Women's Affairs accusing certain groups and sectors of these activities, and that is what they are apologising for. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: That's not true!]] Yes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is about the possibility of discussing many smaller issues with often regional policy backgrounds, and this is also very good, because we can now, at a time when much is being discussed about administrative simplification and the abolition of individual bodies, make it clear to individual examples of our work outside the public. It is also often used to clarify responsibilities. I may, as an example, mention the petition number 44 that I have brought in. It is about the No to Tempo 50 on the B 14 and the reintroduction of Tempo 70 on a road section that is four-tracked and is also absolutely suitable for this speed. We have an opinion from the Ministry of the Environment. This does not feel responsible and says that the Ministry of Transport is responsible. The Ministry of Transport, in turn, refers to the competence of the city of Vienna. Unfortunately, we have so far lost our teeth in the jurisdiction of the city, country or municipality of Vienna. In the future, I hope it will get a little better. This reduction in tempo limits is based on an initiative by city councillor Ulli Sima, who wanted to miss a little greener, more environmentally friendly image. On those roads, so-called downhill roads and access roads for Vienna, which are located in the vicinity of Vienna, where it concerns Vienna, the reduction of the tempo limits has already been reversed due to the strong political pressure and the old tempo limit has been reintroduced. However, this is more about the habit of how the city of Vienna deals with local communities. It can't be like that! In view of the fact that many researchers are included in the concept of Centropa, Country around Vienna predicts extreme growth, economic or population growth, it is known that this can only be overcome if regional policy does not stop at national borders. This applies in particular to transport policy, not only to individual transport, which is addressed in the special case of the petition 44, but also to public transport. Here we have to say again and again that, so to speak, at the national border is over. It was about creating better barriers in the interests of the population. Unfortunately, however, the city of Vienna with one of the largest administrative bodies in our Republic is more similar to Franz Kafka’s castle as a modern public service provider, as we need it. Often one also feels more political arbitrariness than the political will to develop a region in a sustainable way. But perhaps soon a fresh wind blows in the city hall of Vienna, and with a new vice-bourgeois master, the local communities have a strong contact again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22932	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22955	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing I would like to say is: If you read carefully the press release of your party on the subject you have just addressed to Mrs. Col. Hellerer, you will notice that the Minister of Women has made a comparison. She wrote: Slavery as in prostitution also exists in other areas. We all know that in many other areas, these are – I would like to say – forced labour, with women from cheap countries – in particular women! – be taken to Austria. There is this in the care, there is in the rural area, there is in childcare. The conditions in this area are simply shown and delineated, for there belong to women or those who suffer from slavery and exploitation. So I just wanted to say that this was a comparison. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: Some things have already been shown today. We have already taken a new step in this committee, namely the public debate on schools. We should continue this path. The chairmen of the political groups were in Germany, looked at a new approach there, and will certainly work to ensure that in Austria too, we can represent the interests of the people, the citizens' initiatives or petitions. Since today's reform of the Pension Fund Act has been debated, I would just like to add that the Government Convention has a clear commitment to change this. This is currently in discussion. It is important from my point of view that the Council of Seniors, the Association of Pension Funds and the Social Partners are involved. These will work together with the competent ministry and submit a new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e22994	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23016	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! No, I do not share the opinion that citizens are not taken seriously in this committee, but they are taken very seriously. We have already heard examples of this. I do not mean that there are petitions that are done, that come to the “rundlag” or to the dungdo or whatever, but there are petitions that are rightly terminated. One example of this is the petition of Mr Hermann Gahr, who is concerned with the gambling law. Mr Gahr, in his petition, speaks of impenetrable and dangerous developments and has just condemned these developments. At the time when this petition was brought in, it was probably the case. We all know, however, that at the beginning of the summer we passed a new gambling law, especially considering player protection and ensuring that players are protected. This also met the conditions for the completion of this petition. I also believe that the pension fund law, as our colleague Aubauer said, is in the pipeline. It's working on it. The interested parties will discuss this. I am convinced that something will happen, in the foreseeable future. Time. Politics is here and there associated with great patience, and sometimes it is also in these cases, unfortunately God, but something is happening, and it is not that the interests of citizens would not be perceived.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23055	The next speaker was Mr Preiner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23076	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, in its last Committee meeting, also dealt with initiatives on long-term animal transport as well as animal welfare. I want to deal with the latter briefly now. In principle, we agree that an improvement in animal welfare should be sought. Not without reason, many experts repeatedly point out that common industrial pig farming does not meet the natural needs of the animals. The approach proposed by the Ministry of Health is promising because it also provides a positive incentive for those forms of production that go beyond the legal minimum standards. Castrations to perform surgical interventions on animals without anesthesia is not only objectionable, but simply animal torture and, of course, legally prohibited. Mass animal husbandry is not only problematic for the animals therein, but of course also has an impact on the environment and on the people living in the region. I refer only to the border region Lichtenwörth, Zillingtal, Neufeld. That's what it's all about. In 2008, two years ago, for example, in Lichtenwörth, a pig's nest for 1 990 animals was approved. A second pig barn for say and write 2 490 animals is now to be built in close proximity – in a region that will then become the center for industrial pig farms, and in the middle of the Mitterendorf valley, which is considered as a large groundwater reservoir not only for Austria but for the whole of Central Europe. The whole of Northern Burgenland is a source of drinking water from this area. It has just been possible for the UVS to impose a mandatory EIA prior to the establishment of this second large ‘mass pig factory’. The intensification of the management of the affected areas by pigs' fattening farms also leads to an increased supply of manure and thus also to an increasing burden on antibiotics and hormone-active substances, a development that is not desirable either for humans or animals or for the environment in general. Nor is it desirable, ladies and gentlemen, to develop on the Parndorfer Platte, where the construction of an oversized waste or residual waste dump is planned, in the small municipality of Neudorf near Parndorf. The whole population – not only the affected communities, but the whole region – has expressed itself for two decades and at present. A citizens' initiative across party borders has also opposed this monster project. There is also a decision on this project by all the political groups represented in the Landtag. There are also two negative land day decisions and now a development request from the operator. The minister of life and the environment is responsible here, i.e. Niki Berlakovich, who is from Burgenland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] I very much hope that he acts in the sense of the Burgenländer, opposes this monster project and stops it, for one thing must not be forgotten either: This area is located in the Natura 2000 area, close to the UNESCO World Heritage Cultural Landscape Neusiedler See/Fertő and the National Park Neusiedler See – Seewinkel. I think this is about protecting the habitat for animals, protecting the environment and protecting people. However, it is also important that the positive upward development of tourism in the North of Burgenland should not be jeopardised by the implementation of this project. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23144	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23165	Mr President. Appreciate High House! The collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, which today stands for parliamentary debate, is an important reflection of the interests and concerns of the mandates, citizens and citizens. These are a wide range of activities and topics, often of great personal and collective interest to the population. The petition number 45 – which is gambling – is an example of how serious and important the petitions and citizens' initiatives are to us, and also shows how the petitions are implemented by parliamentary means. In addition to many improvements, the topic of gambling, which was only reorganised in July 2010 with the novel of the gambling law, has also taken an important step in reducing wild growth during gambling and thus corresponds to the petition. Also today's amendment to the Civil Service Act was the subject of a debate and discussion in the Committee on Petitions. Ladies and gentlemen, these examples show clearly how much we take the concerns of petitions and citizens' initiatives seriously, allow them to be incorporated into the parliamentary process and put them into practice by law. We will take note of the present report with positive certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23201	Mr Hell has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23223	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The importance of our committee has been discussed and discussed in detail during the last hour. The collective report, which is available today, also deals with the cross-sectional links to be dealt with by this Committee. On the one hand, I agree with colleagues that there is still a great deal to be done in this committee, and on the other hand, we do not need to say it very badly. A total of 56 petitions and 23 citizens' initiatives have already been introduced during this legislative period. I believe that this shows that the interest of the population is present and that the population is also responding accordingly. I support all those who are looking for improvements in the work opportunities in this committee. For us parliamentarians, these citizens' initiatives and petitions are also a very important reflection of our work. We can also see where there are problems in the implementation of the laws that we decide. On the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: We often request opinions on individual petitions and citizens' initiatives. These usually show us the legal situation. If I may remind you of the petition number 44, which has already been addressed: It points out, as in many other petitions, that we have a problem with competence. In this case too, we are faced with the situation that this is the responsibility of the countries. In the last report, for example, the focus was on areas in Lower Austria, where responsibility is also situated among the countries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think the Committee on Petitions has an important role here in the House. There is, of course, still much to be improved in terms of job opportunities. I offer my cooperation in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23268	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 800 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:46:44]] 7. Point Report of the People's Procuratorate Committee on 33. Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. (III-116/882 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23311	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23339	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My dear folk lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! We're taking 33 today. Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office. For half a year, we have dealt very intensively with this. Thank you for the outstanding work! It has been discussed very concretely, but also general points before the summer. In the summer session, the legislative part, the legitimate suggestions, the fundamental right part were on the agenda; today we are discussing the general part. I would like to highlight a few points. Mr. Volksanwalt Peter Kostelka, I am particularly pleased that the General Secretariat has succeeded from the International Ombudsman Institute to Vienna. We know that the international exchange and networking of the Ombudsman institutions are of great importance. What is of great interest and has also recently led to many discussions is the subject of the prosecutions. The Public Prosecutor's Report is also devoted to this issue. It is about the problem of the public prosecutors and the discussion in this regard, it is about creating effective and efficient structures to enable rapid procedures for those affected, of course, without any additional burden on prosecutors. Whether this concerns the personnel situation or the slimming of certain bureaucrats – this is to be examined and done after, ladies and gentlemen, too. I would also like to stress the essential and important partnership between the People's Procuratorate and Parliament. On the one hand, I would like to mention two examples in which concrete suggestions from the public prosecutor's office have been made: the initiative of Federal Minister Stöger on the sustainable improvement of child health – for this purpose already a survey has taken place – or the “Healthy School” project, together with the Minister of the Federal Minister for Health Schmied, on the other hand, the creation of a legal basis for the implementation of the federal health road, which has been in place since 19. August is in force. Therefore, I should also like to thank you very much, on behalf of the citizens who can see the public prosecutorship as an essential point of contact, for the excellent work and above all for the good cooperation and would also like to congratulate you, dear lawyers and Mr Volksanwalt, and your team on this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23387	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23408	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! The People's Procuratorate is a contact point for people who are concerned not to come to their right. They're trying to make something better. The People's Procuratorate stood by in many inquiries with advice and action, providing information. It is an important body with the aim of improving something. Over the course of about a year, nearly 15,000 people sent applications – from the social, judicial, internal and many other areas – with the aim of improving and securing something for the future. We can be glad that there is the People's Procuratorate! I have looked at the subject of social, judicial, internal and other issues in detail: Many, often older people write requests to the People's Procuratorate and also want to speak personally. If I look at the talk held throughout Austria, the talks with the many people with the aim of improving the future, I would like to pay tribute to Ladies and gentlemen, also take the opportunity to thank you for having all those who send requests to ask for call dates, to promise them the concerns and show great commitment to all those often older people. – Thank you to the People’s Procuratorate!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23445	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23466	Mr President. Dear women People's lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! We have heard in the previous statements and also in the committee – and it is also my conviction and the conviction of our group – that the public prosecutorship is a real success story – a very useful institution that has brought many good suggestions, has shown a lot of abuses and is therefore very useful in this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is all the less understandable that all the advances – especially by the opposition, but also by the People's Procuratorate itself – are blocked to carry out a further development of the People's Procuratorate. Here the term reform is repeatedly used incorrectly. But it should not be a return to any condition, but a further development. There are a few points to this, but I would just like to take two examples. The People's Procuratorate is, as everyone recognises, a very useful institution. One is so grateful for the reports and how they are dealt with. It would be useful to extend, for example, the possibility of the public prosecutor's examination and to adjust it at least as the Court of Auditors can consider, in the same way, because we have found that a large number of institutions have been withdrawn from the examination, in particular through the disbursements over the last 15, 20 years. This is about 60 institutions down to far into very important infrastructure areas. – The People's Procuratorate has been given the opportunity to examine all over the country. So it would be time to finally carry out this further development. In particular, I invite the representatives of the government parties who have made such a commitment here to participate. Another area would also be to unify the wild growth, the variety of complaints and to sum up all of this. There are numerous lawyers, ombudsmen, commissions and so on, so it would be very useful to sum this up. One area addressed in the People's Procuratorate's Report is the following: It has, among other things, been illuminated by the difficult situation of people seeking work. It would be useful to introduce a non-profit working model for long-term minimum-guarantee. The debated model should include, inter alia, a reduction in minimum security until the removal of this performance if the long-term minimum-guarantee refuses non-profit-making work. This would have some useful aspects, because these people would be reintroduced into the work process, could make contacts, and could also show that they are really willing to work. It could also partially avoid abuse. At the top of needs, for example in environmental disasters such as floods, where many volunteers are already being used, one could attract these people. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for your consent and thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23539	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23610	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23631	Fathers of the People's Party! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! It wouldn't be bad if the popular lawyers and lawyers once listened, it's about the public prosecutor's office. I agree with the praise of the People's Procuratorate for their work, even though the women's lawyers and lawyers do not want to hear this praise right now. I not only agree, but I believe that this work can be done in this way, and especially in the context of these misconceptions, tests, requests and proposals for improvement, there is a persuasion which is not natural. We are very pleased with this, even with the formal preparation of the report. You can read this very easily and you can understand it very well. In total, we know that this work is not only important, it also belongs to expanded ones. Mr Stefan has already mentioned this. Take, for example, the victim welfare law, which is dealt with in the report and in which it is regulated that victims of National Socialism are entitled to financial benefits. If, for example, the report states that an 85-year-old who has experienced the entire latent – concentration camp, prison and so on – must wait four years until he receives his compensation, then something is wrong in the administration. This has been pointed out, and it has at least been achieved that there is a decree from the Ministry of Social Affairs which calls on the countries to do things quickly. But, and now it comes: Even then it still needs stubbornness, because such a decree does not mean that something actually changes. I can tell you that, for example, not all federal states are operating in the same way here in the case of these victim law enforcements. We are not surprised that the Federal Republic of Carinthia is particularly badly on the road. Of the 350 open cases, 160 are in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the People's Procuratorate here proves tenacity, continues to examine and see if it is implemented. On the further development – Mr Stefan said it –: It is extended to the distributed legal entities. That's not a question at all. If citizens today have problems with these issues, i.e. with the ÖBB, with the universities, with the ASFINAG or also with the BIG, then they have no real contact. That's why we need to see that something happens. Let's just stay with the BIG. It is listed here that mobile masts in Vorarlberg at a school are challenged by an initiative of parents, by mothers. They're contacting the People's Procuratorate. The People's Procuratorate must ask and beg at the BIG to get an answer, which is what's going on. Then comes the answer, but it does not mean any change in these incidents for a long time. In this case too, I believe that Parliament or we are called upon to examine all the proposals on legislative amendments that exist and to ask for real research to carry out implementation, so to speak, on a sustainable basis. I would like to give an example of the legislative innovations, but I would like to say before: In the case of the legislative innovations, I am lacking some sort of statistics in the report. - I didn't notice it until today. How many legislative amendments have actually been tabled over the past few years, which have been dealt with and which have successfully led to implementation? But now I would like to give a fine example, which is cited in connection with the citizenship award. A child has come to the world in Austria, and the mother somehow did not know that the child is also seeking citizenship. The mother himself owns citizenship, and the following occurs: Therefore, the child does not receive citizenship because the mother deserves too little because she cannot fulfil the prescribed guidelines. – It can't be! We can also think about the fact that, for example, victims of torture who come to Austria receive asylum and are unable to work because of their tortures, their lives do not receive citizenship in Austria. There is a proposal for a law on the part of the People's Procuratorate, and of course we are invited to implement this bill to create more scope for financial hardships. Since I'm already there: In connection with torture, there is also an important extension, so to speak, of the public prosecutor's competence, namely the required implementation of the UN anti-torture convention, which has existed since 2003, but which is not really implemented in Austria. I believe it is quite right to also entrust the public prosecutor with this implementation, i.e. to set up a kind of Ombudsman or ombudsman for this torture prevention. At the end – because I was very upset – a correction to the colleague Cortolezis-Schlager, if you give me a short ear: You can certainly remember that in the Committee on Petitions I reported that the People's Procuratorate in connection with the construction of a concert hall in Augarten actually found abuses. You, Mrs Collaborative, have dissociated this and said that the exact opposite has occurred. So, then we had this in the plenary and continued this debate. Today, the Volksanwälten and the Volksanwalt are there, you can ask them: Are there any such findings of misunderstandings, yes or no? - If you don't ask, I ask. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Cortolezis defeat.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23704	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23726	Mr President. My dear folk lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! The 2009 report is very comprehensive. There are many, many individual complaints. Thank God the report not only examines individual cases, but also system errors, which then lead to such conditions as in the Ministry of the Interior. I should like to start by referring to this problem. Police in Vienna. The headline shows such openness that I can only congratulate. It reads: “Missions in the personnel management of the Vienna police at the disadvantage of the Security and staff’. So you don't leave anything out there at all. We hear again and again in Sunday's speeches: More police for Vienna, more police, more police. Everything is promised. What reality looks like is to be read in this report. Police get away from Vienna through service assignments. If you keep in mind this one case, in which four stolen four-axle concrete mixed vehicles were transported almost through half Austria – stolen in South Tyrol, in Toblach, and there was no data request at the ASFINAG – then you're surprised that this was possible anyway. The whole system isn't right. If you still see in the report how many policemen there are on 80 kilometres of highway – wherever you're told, that's the focus, there are controls – and if you insist that four officials are on the outside, then I can only say to the government parties: Stop the beautiful speech! The police, the executive needs more staff immediately! [[Congratulations to Mr Huber and Mr Mayerhofer.]] It is not possible to imagine that much worse than the report shows. And when the police in Vienna were addressed here, I can tell you that this applies to the rest of Austria to the same extent. These maladministrations in the executive are to be found throughout Austria. Contradiction of reality – I come to the next area – can be found in the defence resort. We have had a debate today, whether military service is compulsory or not; there is one argument for this, the other against and also the possibility of suspending military service, as Herbert Scheibner called for. Look In this report, please see what a SPÖ Minister of Defense has to do after several years of operation. I am now quoting a little from this report. As our young soldiers are accommodated, it is heaven-screaming: Each floor two dormitory rooms for up to 100 recruits. Is that responsible? – In a “alarm room”, numerous spindles are placed together and disorderly, inhabited sleeping places are accommodated. – Is that supposed to be a modern federal army?- Oh, my God! Showers for present servants only in the basement. Each shower room holds ten people. Or the Special Hospital: two floors, no lift. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Darabos is intended to generate for years that he has failed to see and is not made available by this Federal Government. When reading the report, the greatest advocates of military service must actually conclude: Let's end the military service! That is not reasonable for our young recruits! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] And how else is the federal army? – There is a courageous complainant showing maladministration. What does he expect from his employer? – He immediately takes out a disciplinary procedure, a disciplinary order. That, ladies and gentlemen, is unconstitutional! Article 148a(1) 1 B-VG excludes such a thing. Therefore, one cannot say that this is a success now because it has been withdrawn. I demand that the person responsible for this be self-disciplinary! I think it's high time. If they intimidate their own colleagues so that they do not go to the public prosecutor and take on disciplinary illegal measures, then it is time for one to resort to disciplinary law. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Königshofer.]] Finally, I can still address the issue of care allowance. Here the medical advice is dramatically shown. I have a great understanding that the idea of saving is to operate everywhere. But if you look at this with the care money a little more precisely, then you will realize that there are 400 000 affected in Austria. Once again, the Public Prosecutor's Office has urged that the benefits of care be paid off by inflation, i.e. a legally guaranteed annual valorization of the care allowance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! 400,000 people affected – and you close your eyes! The People's Procuratorate has just shown this again. Of course, we are also in favour of extending auditing, but first and foremost – and this is my highest priority – the government parties are invited to implement what the public prosecutors indicate, in fact, for the benefit of the Republic and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23826	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23847	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! A word about the statements made by my predecessor: Mr. Windholz, you just talked about the risks of the police service. There is a football match again today, Mr Westenthaler seems to be there because he is not here. So there's a warning to the police that's on the parking lot right now. But now to the seriousness, ladies and gentlemen, to the care money. 420 000 people, 5 percent of the Austrian population, receive care benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windwood.]] The introduction of the care allowance has been a major social benefit of the 1990s, due to social democratic initiative. In this context, I would remind the Minister for Social Policy, which, unfortunately, is not very long, but which we owe to him as a reformer, "Jolly" Hesoun. The care money has been a reality for two decades now, and hundreds of thousands of people have enjoyed it. It is an indispensable contribution to a humane, life-worthy design of life in old age. All the more so, after two decades of course, the care money can also be improved in some approaches. My previous speaker has also addressed a number of issues. Our current Social Minister Hundstorfer is also working on this and is on a good way to improve the care situation in Austria and the care money in particular. Tag care funds to secure the stationary but especially the mobile and semi-stationary facilities. The People's Procuratorate naturally accepts the problems of the care allowance. It has become a contact point for certain complaints that exist naturally. Improvements have to be made on a regular basis. But there were only about 100 complaints at the public prosecutor's office on this subject. You have to relativize that. Each fifth of them was entitled and could also be given a positive correction. In conclusion, I would like to say that the problem of the classification of care benefits in particular should be improved by the fact that we are already in a pilot effort to improve the to introduce dual examination of the situation before the patient and to implement next year that not only the physician, but also a nurse, a nursing expert, in a two-team, do this classification. In conclusion: For the benefit of 420 000 care professionals, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to ensure and work for the same standards in all federal states with a view to general improvement in the quality of care in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23902	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23923	Mr President. Dear women People's lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! A very comprehensive, detailed report is available for discussion. The public prosecutorship is also very detailed in all individual cases. At least 14,853 citizens came to the public prosecutor in 2009 with problems. 189 spokesmen have been held, and 756 complaints have affected the area of justice. The People's Procuratorate is also an important point of contact for people who feel that they do not have the right to do so. Many come up with questions that lie outside the public prosecutor's office's audit. Often it's simple help options that are needed. The complainants are in need of advice and assistance because they cannot interpret court decisions or decisions. They need support and help to explain the legal situation. With the establishment of the Justice Office, a new service was offered, which can provide the best possible support to citizens as an important starting point on legal information issues. This is also expressly welcomed by the People's Procuratorate. On the problem Observatories: In addition to the problem of child abduction abroad and the right to visit decisions, complaints concerning the duration of proceedings were also filed to the public prosecutor's office. Of course, it is true that it is not the duration of the procedure, but the accuracy of the decisions must be the focus. However, for the sake of child welfare, the circumstances of some procedures need to be illuminated. As long as complaints about the activities of judicial experts continue to be filed at the public prosecutor's office. The Public Procuratorate criticises that there are too few and insufficiently qualified experts in Austria in this area. Therefore, the requirement for common guidelines for the assessment of children's psychology and psychiatry is also justified. Ms. Volksanwältin Dr. Brinek was very positive in the Committee that the establishment of a working group on this issue was carried out in the Federal Ministry of Justice. She also mentioned the support of the President of the Supreme Court Dr. Griss, who discussed and presented this issue very effectively in the context of a survey. There are still a number of individual cases that complete this report. These give a good impression of the daily work of the People's Procuratorate, and above all they also confirm the trust of the citizens who are placed in the Public Procuratorate. Thank you very much for that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e23981	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24003	Mr President. Ladies from the People's Procuratorate! Mr. Volksanwalt! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On behalf of my group, I too should like to thank you very much for this detailed and very comprehensive and clear report. In an impressive way, the public prosecutors have once again explained how important this institution has become in the meantime and how valuable the public prosecutors have become especially in those cases in which the citizen often fails to act, in the bureaucracy, in the non-desirableness of the authorities. I think the success story of the People's Procuratorate is also based on the fact that it can, in these cases, follow up, and achieve valuable and important successes in the sense of the population. In this context, I would like to follow the proposal made by my group colleague Harald Stefan, who, in his speech, called for the outsourced legal entities, such as the ÖBB, the ASFINAG or the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft mentioned in this report, to fall into the public prosecutor's jurisdiction, because – and this is also very clear from this report – it often does not give a response to the public prosecutor's requests for examination and the concerns and legitimate demands of the people from the public prosecutor's office can often not be brought to an end. I think that's a valuable suggestion. In a second matter, I would like to add a further suggestion: One should also consider how to deal with claims from the public prosecutor's office, which have appeared in the reports for years and where, in fact, there is no legal means of implementation until now. I am thinking, for example, of the multi-mature obligation for exchange mark owners. This is an inspiration from the People's Procuratorate, which has been finding itself in the reports since 2003 as a recurring message to the government, to the legislator who has remained unheard of until now. Here, too, we should consider whether there is a binding procedure to give the public prosecutor's office the necessary hand tools so that it can take a step further, for the benefit of the population. In this sense, thank you once again to the People's Procuratorate. I wish that these demands of the liberals, i.e. the extension of the test competence, but also the extension of the public prosecutor's hand tool, will come up with a response and can be implemented as far as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24043	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24066	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! It has already been noted several times and rightly that the current account of the public prosecutor's office is significant, the report is comprehensive, and it remains to be noted that citizens have real and serious confidence in you. That's right and good that way. It would also be good if we all, together, were to take seriously the public prosecutor's suggestions and then put in place concrete political and legal measures in one case or another. My previous speaker rightly noted that there has been one of these recommendations – this vignette story for change marks – for years. There are good proposals, Mr President. And if there are these good proposals from the public prosecutor's office, it is up to us here in the house – well, I would say to all the parties in the committee – to address them. That would be living parliamentaryism. Where it is useful, meaningful and obvious – and in my view this is a evident case – the government groups should also be ready to change the use of the committee. It would be right and necessary if it were possible to develop five-party proposals, to take the proposals seriously and then bring them into the house by means of a corresponding resolution. That would be a positive response, for example to this report. I would like us to continue to discuss in this direction in the Committee, especially when we are talking about expanding the competences. We must try to implement the existing results with the necessary seriousness. Perhaps another comment on the test competence: I would be very pleased if there was also a public prosecutor's jurisdiction in law. I'm going to explain this by an example. For example, the People's Procuratorate has always discussed publicly the field of agricultural support, very specific concerns of the citizens who treat farmers and finds that despite legal changes, there are still cases of hardship and different farmers, affected by the law, are treated differently. In such cases, it would be good if a law review – for example, whether the principle of equality has been fulfilled – could also be stimulated by the public prosecutors. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Sorry, we have the Constitutional Court!]] Well, look at this. A regulatory review, Mr Molterer, is something else, because that is an enforcement story. A legislative review at the Constitutional Court would be an initiative that not only the Parliament but also the People's Procuratorate.... Yes, of course, completely right. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you talked about the law test!]] You really understood me, Mr Molterer. That's what I want the People's Procuratorate to do. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are you aware of what you are saying?]] Yeah, of course I'm aware of what I'm... [[Abg. May. Molterer: Obviously not!]] Yes, of course, we can do this in the house; and the People's Procuratorate, as we are firmly convinced, should have this right and be extended its competence. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Holzinger will be happy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I would like to mention three or four comments which are important from my point of view. As far as the environment is concerned, for example, the People's Procuratorate... But you can make a statement. The People's Procuratorate may also have its own opinion on my comments, and I am curious about what she says, Mr Molterer. They have not eaten the truth with the spoon, as we also know from various concrete political results of your actions. [[Call the ÖVP:Na he!]] [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] You also have to say that stone and clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you already!]] I didn't say that! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Oh, yes, all the time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] The discussion on photovoltaic promotion and the criticism of the climate and energy funds, for example, were a very important support in the fight for greater justice in the allocation of photovoltaic funding. The fund has been increased, also because of this criticism – I suppose – which was massively applied to the public prosecutor's office. In conclusion: Remarkable is also the criticism at the Bundesdenkmalamt. In some specific cases, it can be seen that there are, obviously, certain procedures to be removed on such important issues as the protection of monuments, possibly on the call of local political actors, the protection of buildings not taken or too late, or the examination cannot be carried out. Example was the Seebahnhof in Gmunden, for example the Parkhotel in Gmunden. These are both projects that have still not been realised positively, but have only been torn off, and to this day there is actually a decision. The People's Procuratorate rightly discussed this with the citizens, also discussed it with the authorities and presented these shortcomings and abuses. A thank you at this point also for your commitment as regards the public presentation of these citizens' concerns, especially about the corresponding broadcast. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24220	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24241	Mr President. Women's People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! This report is sad because it shows once again all the abuses we have in Austria in the administration. I believe that we must all get to the nose, all Members, because for years these reports have come and nothing will be implemented. If the government refuses to do so, then we must set up initiatives and pass laws to that effect. Let me take a look at some of the suggestions of the public prosecutor's office, for example the prohibition of advertising in teaching. Since the last novel to the School Education Act in 1996, the People's Procuratorate has constantly criticised that events in the school can be used for non-school advertising – and this completely. There you can advertise for party policy purposes, there may be advertising that serves sects. We've got this to be finally and once and for all. I therefore urge the Committee to consider a five-party proposal with the chairmen of the political groups in this regard. I am the good hope and will keep reminding you that you are going into action. [[Abg. Steibl: How long does the good hope last?]] The next is liberalisation in the school-sprenge system. It is simply inconceivable: We still have a regulation today that simply does not correspond to the time that does not correspond to flexibility and mobility. That's where we have to put action. The Federal Ministry sees no need for action at all. The following are the GSM mobile operators: There, the affected citizen, the neighbouring citizen, has not yet had the right to be admitted to a tele-notification procedure. He can't bring his worries, his fears, his needs anywhere. We also need to put action there. As Mr Herbert said: You really see how the government is blocking. That is why I make a request, because we really want to do what we do. If you look at the theme of vignette obligations for vehicles with a change mark, you will notice: That's where it takes action, actions. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher, Mr Hagen, Mr Haubner and Mr Huber: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is asked to avoid further financial burden on drivers, for example, by increasing the price of vignettes in the course of budget renovation.”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24283	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24374	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24396	Mr President. Ladies and Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main issues in the report is the rehabilitation of children and young people. I am very grateful that this issue has been taken up by the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen, there are about 7 000 rehabilitation beds for adults in Austria. About 250 children suffer from cancer every year, and 6,000 children suffer from very serious diseases. For this reason and out of personal distress, Niederösterreicher Markus Wiers has launched an initiative for children's and youth rehabilitation, which is about using experience and knowledge to help children in these difficult situations. Federal Minister Stöger and his team have addressed this issue, and it is working on comprehensive solutions. According to the initiative and also the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there are 185 beds for children we need in Austria. It is about psychosocial and medical rehabilitation and aftercare, which is especially important for children. Summary: The report's presentation of the problem is very comprehensive. The implementation of practical and child-friendly measures will be underway, and we will soon be able to discuss possible proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24429	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24450	Mr President. Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen. Since a few times the public prosecutor's Office has been asked for an upgrade on control functions for laws, rather tasks to be performed by the Constitutional Court: We know that the public prosecutorship is an excellent institution that Parliament has introduced as a control body for procedures, and so it should be. I believe that the People's Procuratorate is doing an excellent job, and I would also like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate and the employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that professional work is really being done. We have also seen this in the committee, where, for example, Mrs. Volksanwälter Dr. Brinek, who is responsible for countries and communities, has pointed out her examinations – her work outside the districts, in the districts, in the municipalities – that the staff there are highly motivated that the buildings are in order and that the people have a general satisfaction. There has not been a single call for districts to be grouped together or communities closed up, left out or put together. But very well, and this I support, has come the demand that even in the course of an administrative reform – and that is where the public prosecutorship also brings in excellent proposals – to cooperate and make laws and regulations in such a way that no flood arises, no occasion legislation. I believe that this is the right access to an administrative reform: not to close, not to lock, but to reform and bring our levels of administration to the fore. The work of the People's Procuratorate is also very helpful for the communities. If a citizen – I have done this as mayor – turns to the People's Procuratorate, then you should be glad when he comes back with a result that is solid and firm, which one can orientate to where nothing can actually happen. On the other hand, we know that there are also people who do not want to see that they are wrong, and then the People's Procuratorate is also a regulatory that tells people very well that the administration and legislation have acted correctly and well. So it is not a one-way drive, but an excellent setting for both sides, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you once again for that. I come to the conclusion: Today we have had a pre-election day – we see that, now the ranks of campaigners are empty, they are out there. But, of course, in view of the situation on the ground... [[Abg. Dr. Cap:... Stadium!]] They're in the stadium? Maybe, yes, maybe the football teams need to be supported by Westenthaler and Co. I don't know if it helps a lot. At the time, I observed that when Mr. Schennach jumped from the Greens and went to the Reds, Ms. Glawischnig immediately made a press conference to divert from the problems in his own ranks and proclaimed the “climate disaster year”. It has not used her anything, because today no one talks about the climate disaster year, but all about the jump of Mr. Schennach to the SPÖ. But you have to take note of this, and I have thought of a four-liner for it: A climate disaster year according to Greens that was of this year. But rather it has happened to me, it will be one for the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24516	Next speaker: Mrs Ablinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24538	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! We also discussed in the Committee, among other things, the implementation of the Additional Protocol to the UN-Folter Convention. Its objective is to prevent torture and other cruel and inhumane treatment, and this is to be ensured by regular visits or controls by relevant independent institutions – who visit people whose freedom has been deprived. Austria has signed this optional protocol 2003, but it is still not ratified. I am very pleased that you, Mr Volksanwalt, have addressed this issue in the routine adoption of your Presidency. It has already been mentioned in the Government's programme that the resettlement of the Human Rights Advisory Council from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Public Prosecutor's Office is planned, and from this there is the possibility to become a common visit and control body for those who have been deprived of freedom. This, of course, allows much more control – as they have already mentioned – of prisons, psychiatric departments, youth homes, nursing homes and old homes. Of course, we support all efforts to ensure that this happens quickly, because it will be time. Seven years have passed since the signature. I have only one comment or question: Article 18 of the OPCAT specifically refers to these national prevention mechanisms, which are intended to require the institutions to be independent and to need appropriate expertise and to the person group that makes it necessary to represent appropriate proportions of ethnic groups but also a balanced representation of the sexes. I believe that there should be some improvement in gender distribution, in any case as far as the current Human Rights Advisory Council is concerned, and, of course, they would have our support. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24575	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 3 minutes speaking - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24596	Mr President. Appreciate People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! We have already heard a lot about it – right! – that the public prosecutorship is an important citizen service for people who feel unfairly treated. A group that is in custody, but can also feel unfairly treated, is composed of the inmates of judicial institutions. The public prosecutor's responsibility also concerns this area, namely the judicial administration, the prosecutor's offices, the execution of criminal proceedings and the examination of delays in proceedings – all of this has to be done. I would just like to take a closer look at this sentence, more specifically about the security in the execution of the sentence. In the course of a visit, Ms. Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, offered the inmates of the judicial institutions Sonnberg, Stein and Garsten the opportunity to present their complaints personally. It is clear that Many of this offer made use of it and discussed abuses and showed them. In the general state of the prisoners' cells, it should be noted that the head of the institution not only enabled confidential talks with the inmates, but also opened up the unhindered access to all premises. In this context, structural defects or the urgency of their settlement could be discussed as well as, if necessary, missing conditions for the further development of a modern penalty. This is only a part of what I am referring to here, which the People's Procuratorate has addressed in this extensive report. I would also like to say positively that after these discussions, both with the inmates and by the ministry, positive signs could already be given. Finally, I would also like to thank you, my esteemed lawyers and Mr Volksanwalt, for carrying out this important task not only for the nearly 15,000 affected citizens, but also for giving positive impetus to our work, so to speak. Thank you very much for this, and of course we are happy if this activity is continued positively for the citizens concerned in the new year of the report.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24645	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24666	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Dear women People's lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Appreciate High House! The 2009 People's Procuratorate's Report impressively shows the extensive, diverse and outstanding activities of the Public Procuratorate. However, the report also confirms the great confidence of the people in our People's Procuratorate, because it comes to you and asks for help with its concerns and problems, often in despair and last hope. The suggestions of the People's Procuratorate, which have become indispensable for our parliamentary action, have had a positive influence in many laws and laws. I am thinking, for example, of increasing the amount of care, of compensation for Contergan sufferers and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, the report also shows us that improvements are still necessary in various areas and that legal implementation is still needed. It is also the merit of the Austrian Public Procuratorate that is now permanently the seat of the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Volksanwalt. I would like to thank the People's Procuratorate for their work so important to people and wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24699	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24723	Appreciate People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! If I follow the debate so closely, I can only say that there are you. They show maladministration. This is an important and necessary work that you make excellent, thank you! They show misunderstandings, for example the uneven senior rates for the Vienna lines. What's this about? Women receive pension reductions from 60 years of age, but men are only 65 years of age. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes! Right!]] How does the People's Procuratorate see that? – Dr. Kostelka referred to the uneven seniority rates of the Vienna lines in the Committee as a blatant case of discrimination against men. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. New builder.]] In a press release, Dr. Brinek spoke of a smooth breach of law. Thank you for your clear words, valued Volksanwälte! So there is a need for action. ÖBB and Wiener Linien are invited to comply with the equal treatment law. Finally, discrimination against men. Thank you, fellow lawyers, for showing up problems, thank you for your detailed reports, an important challenge for our work here in Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24769	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24791	Mr President. Appreciate People's Lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! First of all, I would like to thank you because, as a Member of Parliament and also as mayor, I am constantly being told a lot of good things and I would like to give you this thanks. After reading through the report of the People's Procuratorate, one thing is clear to me: This hammock argument, which is constantly brought by all possible sides, is absolutely incorrect. The many social blacks, the social blacks, the sloths, all of this is made responsible for the hustle and bustle of the state fund. It does not stop in front of professional groups, not even in front of the pensioners. We find scapegoats there and there. We're oversocial, we're gonna be posatant. I wonder, are we oversocial if we have too few beds in Austria so that children and young people can receive intensive follow-up treatment after cancer therapy, as we can see from the report? Or, or, or, Many examples show that. I say to you that we are not over-social, and that is what this report really supports. Thank you very much, too. If we are already talking about oversocial matters, I do not want to hide that we are very well oversocial on one side: if we are making a social minimum guarantee for rich people, that is, for those who do not need it. On the one hand, the minimum security for those who really need it is weathered, and on the other hand, we are committed to a subsidy system for those who would not need it. For example, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Porsche receives approximately €55 000 annually in agricultural subsidies on the grounds that: [[Abg. Hornek: How much does the dog tore get?]] Direct payment to ensure a stable income. That's how you could continue the list. There are top earners in the agricultural chambers who receive an average of €56 000. [[Abg. Hornek: Stop the class struggles!]] Finally, I would like to say that many of the public prosecutors' suggestions, which would bring improvements to the population, are not being implemented at the moment because it does not allow the budget situation. Only if we create the next budget in such a way that those who can afford it also have to make their contribution, only then will we be able to actually implement the proposals of the Public Procuratorate in the future. [[Abg. Tamandl: Do you have the wrong talk with?]] “And the poor said palely:” – it says – “If I wasn’t poor, you wouldn’t be rich.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24894	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24916	Mr President. I have the right talk with you. Dear women People's lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! The important task of the independent public prosecutorship, namely to examine alleged or suspected maladministrations in the administration, is without a doubt to exercise public but also political control in the service of democracy, in the service of the rule of law and ultimately in the service of citizens. Public prosecutor's test procedures are intended to help and provide assistance to those people who suspect a lack of or an unfair operation by authorities. In addition, it is also true that through the constant control activity something like a quality assurance takes place in our administration. As at least capable of expanding, I admit, I would like to describe Parliament's dealings with the legitimate suggestions of the People's Procuratorate. It is not always the administration that gives rise to complaints. There are also legal regulations that may lead to justified complaints. The impressive figures show that the three Volksanwälten – the two Volksanwalts and the Mr. Volksanwalt – present a really large workforce with their employees: 14 800 citizens who addressed the public prosecutor in 2009 were able to deal with 10 300 complaints concerning the administration, 6 200 test procedures or 3 700 in the Federal Administration. Overall, I would like to thank the two lawyers and Mr Volksanwalt as well as the staff. That's no rhetorical thanks. This is a thank you I really feel, because I really believe you all have your office as it was thought by the legislator, that is to say, parties and citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24952	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e24973	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! The 19 previous speakers have discussed in detail the 2009 People's Prosecutor's Report, so I would like to refer to the FPÖ's motion for a resolution tabled by the SPÖ. Of course, it is not surprising when the subject comes to the tapet precisely at election times. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that, in any case, the labour market needs to be made available to minimum insurance providers, and any decent work that is being mediated must also be adopted. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you have not yet heard of it, there is a motion for a resolution to this effect. If aid organisations such as Caritas, Volkshilfe or local authorities offer job vacancies, the long-term minimum insurance providers will of course be transferred and promoted to them. Those who reject a reasonable position are likely to face sanctions, and in extreme cases this goes until the minimum guarantee is removed. The fact is, of course, that the decision and the introduction of the minimum guarantee have also happened, it is much more misuseable than the previous social assistance. [[Abg. Neubauer: Which state are you talking about?]] In conclusion, Mr President, two more arguments: Long-term unemployment fell by 10.9% in August, and the current placement by the AMS does not mean wage dumping, and so it also prevents unfair competition on the labour market. Finally, I would also like to thank you very much for the great work of the People's Procuratorate and wish everything good for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25016	Mr Volksanwalt, Mr Kostelka, spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25037	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the first place, I should like to thank the public prosecutor for the praises not only for the public prosecutors as a whole, but also, in particular, for our employees. These 15 000 complaints must also be dealt with, and it is probably understandable that in – on average – 63 days will not work if only three lawyers work on them. It's obvious. The fact that a staff of just over 60 people with this flood of complaints is being completed by nearly 15,000 items a year shows that there is actually a very intensive work. In this context, in order to demonstrate that the relationship with our citizens is being taken very seriously, let me add that in the first half of this year we carried out a total of 193 speech and that there have been a total of 1,273 discussions with citizens across Austria. The public prosecutor's task is on the one hand – that is indeed necessary in 10 to 15 percent of cases – to make administrative misdevelopments, or, as the federal constitution says, to correct maladministrations in the administration, but on the other hand, as Mr Grossruck said earlier, to state in the other cases that the laws are the way they are, and that they have been properly implemented by the officials. [[Abg. Scheibner: “according to order ” they cannot be!]] This is also a very important element in the end, because a dissatisfied citizen is faced with an administration that is unable to explain why it was so – and could not be decided otherwise. Thank you many times for the comments related to the further development of the public prosecutor's legal status. Every time you're in the high house, you go away with the feeling that something is going to happen now. [[Abg. Scheibner: We did something when we had a good feeling!]] I hope we don't have to wait until the next time. I am convinced that a review procedure will be carried out in connection with OPCAT in the foreseeable future, in which the task of the National Prevention Mechanism will be entrusted to the Public Prosecutorship after the OPCAT. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a task which the People's Procuratorate should and can fulfil only in agreement and with the involvement of the Human Rights Advisory Council. It would be empty insanity to miss out on these experiences, which are very, very remarkable in international comparison. On the contrary, the aim is to integrate these two institutions into the public prosecutor's house, and I believe that this is a very sensible, best-practice-suspected model. In this respect, I must point out not only that Slovenia has gone in the same direction, but that we are able to achieve very positive results with this institution – the auditing control by the public prosecutors. In this context, let me briefly point out the following: Torture means not only the classical medieval tortures such as thumb screws and other torture tools, but also any human rights abuse is understood in a secondary situation, not only in a prison, not only in police custody, but also in places where other people are not voluntary, such as in nursing homes, youths in youth homes or anywhere. The events of the last few days, which have been spirited by the media, make it clear that it is essential, in particular, for nursing homes to carry out controls. The public prosecutorship will, of course, continue to pursue all the other issues raised here – whether this is the important question of youth rehabilitation, in which the Federal Minister has addressed our arguments, or the difficulties in the area of care money, where the relevant opinions will be available in the foreseeable future. The next step will also be discussed with the Federal Minister in a People's Procuratorate survey. In times when the construction of the defence area and the distribution of the loads in the defence area are being discussed throughout Europe, I believe the question of the presence service is of vital importance. In this context, we will continue to take care of it. One last comment, ladies and gentlemen: The Austrian People's Procuratorate has been a public prosecutor since 1. Last September, the headquarters of the Headquarters, as it is called internationally, of the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute. Currently I.O.I. A total of 150 organisations from 90 countries. We will conduct our first international training in November. For example, representatives of – I now call only the least developed countries on this planet – Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, Djibouti and Zambia are involved. All these countries will send representatives to Vienna for this SYT training. This training has, last but not least, the purpose of the facilities having the same international standard as possible. What we want to achieve is that there is a global commitment of ombudsman and female activity, and the People's Procuratorate can contribute a lot to that. The fact that we are able to do so, ladies and gentlemen, is not least thanks to the National Council. It was a unanimous decision of the National Council to enable the representatives of the Austrian Public Prosecutor's Office to take part in the award meeting. And this one has clearly shown that the whole Republic really wants this institution to come to Vienna. This was a non-essential argument to choose Vienna and not another European or non-European country or city. – Thank you very much for that too!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25111	Mrs Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, spoke on another statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25133	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also address some aspects that have already been articulated by you. On the one hand, the increasing number of Ombudsman institutions has been addressed. – “Ombudsman” is, you know, a Swedish word and has nothing to do with Ombudsman/Ombudswoman. – This is welcomed, on the one hand, because there are more opportunities for citizens to express their concerns; on the other hand, citizens often come up with what the respective Ombudsman can or cannot do. We have rather developed the practice of working together to see how we can create with our, I say, sharp weapons of control, with our fair weapons of control legal certainty and information for citizens. So, we work together and try to contribute what we can contribute. We also observe that it has already been mentioned by Members that authorities have also worked on their professionalism and therefore see control as aid. The test seal – “is audited by the People’s Procuratorate” – becomes more and more truly a criterion, which means: Cooperation instead of confrontation. And consistent control is quite compatible with that. So we see our encounter with the authorities in this constructive spirit. We are also pleased that not only the legitimate suggestions are taken into account. We keep thinking about how we can express this statistically. It is also sometimes true, however, that the control of the public prosecutor's investigation is already understood as an instigation of a legal change and, therefore, such a change cannot be attributed directly to a direct legitimate suggestion or to a case of maladministration. – Thank you for that too. At this point, I wish that cooperation and cooperation with Parliament should continue to be so good that we can work on an extension. You are right to ask if you read the report: In so many cases, we started a test procedure – what happened in the other cases? What does the People's Procuratorate have to say about this? In the context of the sections in the report, I would like to refer to ‘taken’. That's not essential. We also understand ourselves as seismographs of certain concerns and concerns in society, in the population. From my point of view, I should also like to address the debate from the field of justice, whether this concerns the work of the prosecutor's office, the execution of the sentence or the question which was recently discussed here in Parliament, where an employee, an expert from the public prosecutor's office on the issues of divorce, care, maintenance, improvement in the right of visit and so on could be sent to us as complaints about the courts, about justice here, but not directly enabling them to intervene. The autonomous courts are, of course, excluded from the examination. The information given to the population, the perceptions that we can make, I see as an important task that I absolutely do not want to rebuild. It is similar with the question of the execution of the sentence. In part, you mentioned it and in part you have already articulated it in the Committee: Just as the economy is more global, as economic cooperation is taking place differently than it was 20 or 30 years ago, crime is also on the go, its networking is developing in a way that also challenges criminal execution, justice and justice to a high degree. I think, on the one hand, that what is now being done by the government, by the Minister, is to bring economic competence there, to bring test expertise into the public prosecutor's office, survey and prosecution skills there, but at the same time also to inform the public prosecutor's office. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is important, and there is a sense in the cross-sectional matter – including Volksanwalt Kostelka – that youth welfare is achieved, that the quality of the opinions related to the child welfare is secured and expanded, and that the issue of the administration – here, too, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in a working group – is improved to such an extent that the complaints may fall. That is the meaning of the law of the State. The complaints show a different picture of what has to do with the change of society, with the size of families and so on. At this point I would also like to thank you very much for the many suggestions that have been made between the lines and between your remarks and to look forward to the next step of cooperation, and to sum up the whole with a small motto: The Wiener Philharmoniker perform in a certain formation, in a smaller than the parent orchestra, and in this formation they are called “The Anxiety Breakers”. At the start of my work, I also took this worry-breaker-being as a motto for my work. I am in the middle of developing this alarming activity. If you, ladies and gentlemen, continue to cooperate with the People's Procuratorate, then the piece can continue to succeed. I look forward to it and thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25206	I now give the floor to Mrs. Volksanwalt Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25227	Madam President. Poštovane lady i gospodo! Dobar vecer! If you want to be a worrybreaker or a worrybreaker, just as Mr Brinek said, I can only refer you to pages 59 to 80 of our 428 page. There you will find the legitimate suggestions that really address you directly and directly. We do not have statistics, as Gertrude Brinek has already said, and we cannot say whether it is really exactly 50 percent, because it is not possible to conduct such statistics either. I can only tell you after three years: There is no doubt that there is not enough to be taken up by the legislative suggestions of the People's Procuratorate in Parliament, because every legitimate suggestion we forward to you to Parliament is well thought out and a collegiate decision of the three Volksanwalts, and from our point of view it would be necessary to make that actually happen. – So there could be a lot of worrybreakers here. I would like to make three comments on the points raised by you, by the ladies and gentlemen – in my case, only gentlemen –. First of all, Mr Grossruck: Yes, it is of course – and we have already discussed this in the Committee – that the public prosecutor's role is to consider issues of administrative reform, because we do daily administration in the workplace. What people want – no matter what level – are efficient, fast, of course objectively comprehensible – sometimes it also says: fair administrative decisions. From my point of view, any discussion of where there may be changes is a completely taboo one that would lead to. So nothing is forbidden, in my view, to be discussed: up to the questions raised, to resolve, to group together, to also question communities in their efficiency of activity. This is a taboo discussion that makes sense. I can pass this on to you from all that I experience and perceive in the daily work. That's what we're responsible for. But I say to you, in total, the Austrian administration works very well, because if we imagine that there are millions of administrative acts throughout Austria throughout the year at all levels – community, countries, federal government – what is referred to the public prosecutorship is really relatively little. But if we are then dealing with a complaint, it is necessary to deal with it, and it is also to find appropriate reluctance and consideration at the respective bodies: not only in the National Council, but also in the days of the seven federal states to which we report. I would like to mention three examples that you have mentioned for the success or failure of legitimate suggestions. These are the change marks. I have heard this for years as a Member of Parliament from the popular lawyers of that time. It's not heard until now. That bothers a lot of people. This is certainly not a cost question, it is certainly not a question of control, but a purely political question, as I mean, political will. An example of successful activities of the Public Prosecutorship is the problems we have encountered in the very positive introduction of the Climate and Energy Fund in relation to the photovoltaic promotion, and those suggestions that, in the discussion process with the management, as not only proved right from our side, but even as such that they were implemented. From today's point of view, today's whole action is much better, although it is not quite easy, because many people there will make a request that will not receive support – not only for technical reasons, but simply for too little money in this fund for what is required by the population. In any case, we are pleased that our proposals have been accepted. A topic addressed by Dr. Pirklhuber, but not yet in the report, because it concerns work in 2010, is misconceptions relating to the protection of monuments. This is actually something that has two very different aspects for the People's Procuratorate in the two cases addressed – Seebahnhof Gmunden and Augarten. I've got to get in as a popular lawyer: It is, as it were, a defeat of the People's Procuratorate if there is a collegial misconception with recommendations that are not implemented. The station has since been demolished. Nevertheless, our work has not been in vain, because it draws a moral picture of what is in the Republic in terms of pressure and influence on administration – which should work without pressure and influence. To the Causa Augarten, because there was an interlocutory call to the colleague Zinggl, why he knew something that another Member did not know. The answer is: Mr Zinggl. You, ladies and gentlemen, may and may at any time be able to contact the three prosecutors, and what we are allowed to carry outside – you may sometimes see our broadcasts, as we do, even in individual test procedures – every Member may know. It is not that one calls each one and makes him aware of a new level of information, but those who ask get three from us – certainly I can speak for the other two too – a corresponding answer. It's important to me to find out here: The People's Procuratorate has found an abuse as a result of the change of the monument protection to the Augarten. The maladministration has been determined in order to clear out clearly all the ambiguities that have occurred in the past few weeks. That's what I'm about to do. There is still much to be said, but above all there is a lot to read in our 428 pages strong report. Have a nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25328	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Committee to take note of this report III-116 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for their attention to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Harald Stefan, colleagues, on the introduction of a non-profit working model in relation to long-term minimum-guarantees. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, on no new burden on drivers by a vignette price increase. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:10:49]] 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Report on Reforms of Federal and Country Pension Systems (III-88/843 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25409	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Sacher. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25439	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors and his team! Ladies and gentlemen! No one will find it fair, for example, if an official in the Federal Republic of Carinthia can expect a rest of 94 percent higher than on average in the federal government during his retirement life. There are also such injustices in other areas. Therefore, the harmonisation of the pension systems of the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities is also an important point in the Faymann Government's government programme. Due to the federalist structure, it will not be easy to achieve this goal. The Federal Government has achieved this goal by far and achieves the highest saving success. The countries are very different in this area, but the Court of Auditors confirms that reforms generally take a positive turn, and it expects it to be able to achieve around €700 million in savings over the next four decades. As a Lower Austrian, I am pleased that, for example, the Federal State of Lower Austria has achieved its goal. However, I would like to point out that the basis for this was laid at a time when there was a good, working cooperation in Lower Austria, while, lately, one hears from Lower Austria only Poltern and Donnergrollen in order to distract from the real problems. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek]] Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the Federal Minister, for example, for her success in achieving successful harmonisation through the involvement of 150 000 contract staff, officials and state teachers in the Federal Pension Scheme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25479	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25507	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! In the 2008 Financial Balance Pact, the countries agreed, of course, on the basis of the different structures, to implement the Federal Pension Reform financially equivalent. It is precisely this agreed implementation that the Court of Auditors has now reviewed. The result brings interesting aspects. For me, however, the report is also a textbook for all those interested in the various national pension systems. I should like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for this. Now on the content. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have to thank the President in particular!]] – The employees did it. – Thanks to the president and the staff! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the MEPs Scheibner and Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek.]] [[Abg. Head: One-said!]] Now on the content: The Court of Auditors noted that the standard pension age in all federal states was increased to 65 years, except Carinthia. In order to quantify pension benefits, however, a model invoice was made. The calculation became an academic in the final extension of the reforms with the date of birth 2. ==References====External links== If you look at the monthly rest pleasure that came out on the basis of this model calculation, it lies with the federal government and the federal states that carried out the reforms – these are the federal states of Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Styria and Vorarlberg, and then the Burgenland – at €2 268 per month. In Tyrol it was € 650 more at this time, in Vienna by € 1,000, i.e. 40 percent above that, in Carinthia it was even € 1 370, i.e. by 60 percent above the federal rest. How does this difference in rest now affect the entire pension benefit until the end of the life? The Federal Government and the federal states that have fulfilled the agreements are a total of €498 000. In Vienna it is around €220 000 more, in Carinthia unimaginable €466,000, almost double. After many years of failure, pension harmonisation is now under discussion in Carinthia, but this pension harmonisation has also been criticised by the President of the Court of Auditors Moser as insufficient. Let us be surprised what is being decided in Carinthia these days. There are discussions there. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== August 2010 was read: “The federal states are reluctant to adapt their civil servants’ pensions to the federal model – above all, Carinthia and Vienna continue to enjoy luxuriant pension privileges.” Unfortunately, Vienna's mayor Häupl is not currently ready for substantial pension harmonisation. In Vienna, the Court of Auditors sees a savings potential of € 130 million. For me, it is not understandable if Mayor Häupl currently calls the implementation of the Pact also signed by the city of Vienna as a pension robbery. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You are a Upper Austrian, you need...!]] I can therefore only support the call made by Secretary-General Lopatka to the federal states for the harmonization of pension systems in the national and local sectors. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing pensions with the population in these days, and in particular with regard to the retirement age, then there is actually only one requirement, namely: Same retirement age for all. This must apply to all, including the Austrian National Bank and the Austrian Bundesbahnen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25577	Mr Grastaur has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25598	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President Moser! High house! I can only fully endorse Mr Singer's statement. That's what it's all about. I also save myself to explain that again. However, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors very much for their work. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I have also been following the "press hour" on Sunday with great interest and heard from you, Mr President Moser, that without administrative reform and other reforms it is not possible to correct the state budget. That was a clear speech. It was totally understandable: We can't do it without reforms. Our task, not only of opposition, but also of the Court of Auditors, is to remain persistent, and I really admire you because you have to make the same demands and make proposals again and again until it finally works and something is implemented. It's really sad that's true. However, the foreign exchange is not loosened. Tax funds must be used in a more economical and efficient manner. It is not to be seen that there are still three federal states – Vienna, Carinthia and Salzburg, as we have already heard – which are close to adapting pension systems to the ASVG system, with me hearing yesterday – or today – in the plenary debate that Carinthia is in the process of changing the decision and improving something here today. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yesterday was no...!]] I also do not understand that there are national leaders who, in view of this huge debt, which the federal government has and thus also the countries, do not allow the savings potential of € 714 million to be raised only in this one area. I should like to remind you once again that the federal government owes €180 billion and that every euro is needed to clean up the state budgets. In my opinion, this approach, which the Heads of State here cover, is both unsocial and irresponsible to all other taxpayers. I hope there's something going to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25644	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25665	Ladies and gentlemen! My story is a little different. Of course, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, which has made great efforts to compare the different pension schemes of the Federal Government and the countries, to compare their adjustment over the next 30, 40 years, to calculate what is the added cost, the additional costs in one system or another, and to derive from them political demands that lead to one to say to Carinthia, to the other, Vienna. Who's helped with that? And that's where the political narrative of history begins for me. If you had made a pension reform in 2003, 2004 in such a way that it would not be effective in its consequences until 2050, as is usual in the Scandinavian countries, Sweden, above all, you would have taken time to negotiate for one or two years, to clean up the reform, to involve everyone and to let everyone understand the reform, then the result would probably be a much better one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] I am telling you, Mr Head, in one point only why all that you have decided will cause absolutely brutal rejections beyond the savings effects of national pension systems over the next few years. And this one. For example, the Court of Auditors itself has shown that it concerns the long-term insurance scheme. I say this now without any side-by-side consideration, because at the time, even though we were voted on, we felt that, in principle, the demand for a transitional system, the proposal made by the EIA, is correct. You have to make a transition system. If you stop the long-term insurance or hacker scheme in 2013, you will create the next injustice and the possibility that everyone can go to the Constitutional Court. Any later, that is to say, when the age of female retirement becomes effective. Look Why don't you take that easy? We really still have things in front of us that are brutal in their effect, because it means that a day difference on the birthday, from 31. ==References== January 1954 – and this is the example of the Court of Auditors – if it remains so, without transition, that the difference in retirement will be five years. One goes with one. January 2014 and the other one born one day later – there are five years and one month – go on 1. February 2019. There are many tricks in this system. And here I am not at all with the national pension systems, where, regardless of whether Carinthia or Vienna, all the federal states – and the President knows that exactly – everyone in these transitions has tried to improve a certain group or to find out something that should not be particularly noticeable by 2050. This is not harmonisation – at least for the next 40 years! But we're making policy for the next ten or 20 years. We have nothing at all that we say to people – and you won't do anything else – outside: In 40 years we still have the pension harmonisation. – Yes, who still believes that the people who are affected by it or are affected by it over the next 20 years? And this unique opportunity to achieve real harmonisation in 2002, 2003, 2004 has been rejected! I am not yet talking about the other points, beyond the federal pension system and the national pension systems; there are also elements in the harmonised general social security system that favour certain groups. So I've already asked myself one thing today, when the colleague Grillitsch came out and said: Insanity, the grants will explode to €16 billion in the next few years! Good man, did I ask myself, why don't you say anything about the subsidies to the farmers who are particularly favourable subsidies to the farmers? The fact that we have here a federal contribution that represents an extra gift – beyond the other situation that is not enviable for the farmers – must also be able to talk about. Harmonization looks different. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been rejected, and we will probably not have it again so quickly in the next five to ten years – this is unfortunately due to the difficulties you have with each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] This is actually tragic, because people would expect what the colleague of the ÖVP said: Yes, a common pension right for all, the same benefits and the same parameters guaranteed for all.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25738	Mr Windholz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25762	Madam President. Mr President. High house! This report of the Court of Auditors shows mercilessly what injustices there are. If the individual concerned reads in what differences can be expected from the federal state to the federal state, he can only conclude that the system as such is not fair and unfair. Our job will be to think about how we create justice. Imagine that the largest economic and financial crisis in the Second Republic has led many to ask the useful question: When is the state reform going on? When is the administrative reform going on? We could bring something in there! – Today they are actually disappointed. Today one could listen to the Minister of Finance, who obviously has in mind that there are higher tax revenues, and that means: There you can press again, there you can protect your clienttel. [[Abg. May. Hakl: No! ...!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: He said the opposite!]] And it's going to be too late for you to press here. What I think needs to come from is a uniform pension right. It is not to be seen that there are such blatant differences. From my point of view, it is irrelevant whether someone in The state service or municipal service in a federal state, from Burgenland to Vorarlberg. The same pension system must apply, and this is what it is all about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But as soon as this debate comes – administrative reform, tax reform – there is immediately the verbal keule, the word “federalism”. It is used immediately to prevent, block everything under the title “Federalism”. I take out the example of school. There are also very interesting entrances when you see the retirement age, the many early retirements in this area. There is a minister who is abandoned by her own party as soon as she makes proposals. There is a head of state of the ÖVP who immediately puts in his veto, and then there is the debate: Who's responsible? Federation or country – or both together? I have to tell you, the system we now have is at least to be eliminated. Whether it is actually the federal government or the country, I tell you, it can only get better. It is now so politicalized that I am concerned that little progress is being made on the subject. Vice chancellor Pröll, whether or not You're still making so many calls here, your great hope is: We're getting more tax revenue now, we can push ourselves again. Ladies and gentlemen! She's gonna give you a huge chance. Administrative reform and state reform have been discussed for decades and the result is zero. If the Federal Minister Schmied says that the Federation has full competence, the answer comes from Lower Austria: No, the country makes all of this much better. What does our trade union president Neugebauer say, the symbol of this old system? He said a sentence: The best thing is, it's all the way it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I can only tell you: To prove by this policy You don't have good service to the country. And the Court of Auditors will not be tired of showing this false system. Mr President, I should like to thank you, Mr Dr Moser, for I have of course also experienced how much you have been interested in politics when it came to examining allegations in Lower Austria. This is certainly anything but easy for you, but you were courageous and steadfast and called things by name. Again: I should like to congratulate you, Mr President, and your employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25820	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25842	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is good, important and right that we discuss this issue – and it is thanks to the Court of Auditors that a little light comes into the dark in this matter as far as the civil servants' pension systems in the individual federal states are concerned. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly continue to concern us this year. It is simply a matter of bringing justice and fairness into this system, because how is it to explain to someone who is a national servant in Lower Austria that his colleague in Vienna will first have a much higher rest, namely one who is 40 percent higher, and that the colleague in Vienna can retire at least six years earlier? This is not about playing out one federal against the other or even about campaigning, but simply and simply about it being unfair. If we now see everywhere on posters on the streets or in advertisements that social justice is demanded, I already have to ask the question: Where, then, is there social justice when there are occupational groups who can retire at 52, 54 or 55 years of age, but all others are required to comply with the statutory retirement age of 65 years?- Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot shape the pension system! That will not be the case for the population, and rightly so. We need action, yes, with us a total of too early retired; at 59 years, that is too early. But if these systems are not changed – starting with the ÖBB, through some federal states, through to the National Bank – then we do not need to have another discussion at all. It is not about the people concerned themselves, the individual employees, but about these different systems. It is not right for us to be put down by the ÖVP as if we were against the ÖBB officials! This is not right, but, as has already been said, it is about this whole system – and it is also about the need to make a balance within the professional groups. That is what we stand for from the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Lapp: The farmers...!]] Mr Oellinger has now gone out, but he has referred to the long-term insurance scheme. I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen: ==References====External links== September 2008 had the opportunity to agree to a regulation which the ÖAAB submitted to the ÖVP: a grinding-out of the hacker scheme, but not free time in the field of health care, in the field of working time, which can be bought out without further delay. To produce this free means, for example, that in the previous year only 25 percent of this scheme was used on the basis of this 2008 decision. This makes this system unfinancingable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We of the ÖVP insist on it: Performance must pay off – even with pensions! I call on the Minister for Social Affairs to finally make a proposal to ensure that there is planning for the people of our country and that they know what their pension will look like in the future. We from ÖVP are also ready to talk and continue to call for sustainability in this system.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25884	Next speaker: Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25906	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors carried out cross-border reviews of the reforms of the federal and country civil servants' pension systems. In the course of the 2008 financial compensation, it was agreed that there should be financial equivalent pension reforms in respect of civil servants' pension. The pension reforms of the Federal Government and the Länder contribute to a different degree to increasing the efficiency and financialability of civil servants' pensions. The highest saving success for federal officials results from the strictest criteria and the short transitional periods. The federal states of Lower Austria, Vorarlberg, Styria and Upper Austria also achieve their reform goals. The Burgenland would achieve financially equivalent savings when implementing the recommendations already adopted by the State Government. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors points out that the federal government and the federal states base the rule-pension age on a target of 65 years. Only the Federal Republic of Carinthia, which is already struggling with financial difficulties, sets the standard pension age at 61.5 years. The Court of Auditors report informs that pension benefits received vary between €498 000 and €966,000 in the Federal Republic of Carinthia. Thus, the expected pension performance of an academic in Carinthia is 94 percent higher than at the federal government. This means very high additional burdens and financial expenses for the budget in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore call for mechanisms to be established in the course of the next financial compensation, which will allow for tangible consequences if contractual partners – even if they are federal states – do not comply with agreements. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr President, I would like to thank you and your officials for the competent preparation of this delicate subject, which has been presented in detail in this report. Thanks to these preparations, we have continued an essential and correct step in the right direction – but it is nevertheless a way that still has a long distance.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25958	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, has now spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e25981	Madam President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank you very much, on behalf of the officials of the Court of Auditors, and to tell you that this audit, which is on the agenda today, is a success that is unique. It has already been mentioned that there are already negotiations in Carinthia in this context, or that the Carinthian Landtag will deal with it tomorrow. I have had the opportunity to attend a meeting in Carinthia and can therefore tell you: It has been demonstrated that in Carinthia we are now ready to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations on harmonising pension rights. That is to say, this examination has up to now achieved savings in the countries of around €480 million, with, of course, further savings in millions would have to be achieved if other federal states mentioned here are also willing to carry out harmonisation. In this context, I would also like to refer to the federal accounts, which was presented yesterday and which show an urgent need for consolidation, not only in the Federal Government, but in all the federal states, but all three territorial authorities – federal, state and local authorities – were not able to achieve their stability goals. It is noted that countries, of course, also due to new tasks, have not been able to meet the requirements of the Stability Pact since 2003. Considering, for example, the individual criteria in the Stability Pact, the criteria in the government programme or the stability programme presented to the EU, and at the same time the Strategy Report, which is part of the Federal Financial Framework Act, shows that we currently have different stability objectives or criteria. Therefore, it would be appropriate to define for all local authorities how the stability objectives in their area can actually be achieved in the medium term stabilisation process. The debate also addressed the different pension systems and the different amounts of living, but in this context it should also be noted that the retirement age in the countries is very different: in the case of national officials between 57 years and 61.7 years. Similar differences can also be found between the national teachers and the federal teachers, where the difference is between 53.5 years and 59.9 years. This is much lower than the Federal teachers, where the retirement age is 57.7 years and 60.3 years respectively. Mr Oellinger referred here to the issue of early retirement. In this context, I would like to refer to the incapacity pension, which in some countries has reductions of 3.36 percent, and in others, reductions of 2%. There is also the possibility of corridor board, where there are discounts of 1.68 percent. The hackler system, where one has the opportunity to complete the 60, was also addressed. years of life and 40 years of contribution-covered years without deductions. The Court of Auditors had therefore also to observe in this examination that there is currently a significant inequality, which is dependent on one year of birth. I would also like to point out that someone who makes use of the hacker scheme at the federal level – for example, a maturant who is retired at the age of 60 and who is 40 years old – causes 187 000 euros in costs to someone aged 65. In 2009, 52 percent of public service retirement changes were made under the hackler scheme. That means at the same time: 1 500 officials retired in 2009 as a result of the hackler scheme. Additional costs for the entire pension period amount to € 280 million. If the hacker scheme remains in this form and the inflow is also given to the same extent in the years 2011 to 2013, this will result in additional costs of around € 840 million for the period 2011 to 2033. The Court of Auditors can therefore only point out that, for the sake of contribution and performance justice, as well as for the maintenance of financial viability, efforts towards harmonisation must continue to be made. Harmonization does not mean bad relations, but equality with other officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26074	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired by the rapporteur. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-88 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:41:39]] 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/11 (III-94/844 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26117	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26144	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2003, it was decided to withdraw the management of the Austrian development assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to concentrate on its own privately managed GmbH. The aim was to make management more efficient in order to cope with the planned increase in funding for development aid. – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, this privatisation can be seen as a failure due to this Court of Auditors report. The basic problem, as Mr Moser has confirmed in the Committee, is that outsourcing has created a structure to deal with development aid of 0.7% of GDP. The additional funds have not yet been made available, but the structure and staff for a greater degree of development cooperation are available. The financial resources have not been increased. Ladies and gentlemen! Development cooperation is important and necessary. We not only have a moral commitment to poorer states, but many experts agree that lack of support for developing countries also harms the wealthy industrialised countries. I'm asking you to consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26181	Now comes Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26202	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I would like to pay tribute to the decision-making preparation of the highest courts, which the Court of Auditors has, in principle, assessed positively. For example, the Court of Auditors praises the scientific staff employed by the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court and there makes an important contribution to the support of the Supreme Courts. As far as the Court of Auditors' recommendation is concerned, in addition to appointed judges, to appoint judges as scientific staff, Mrs. Bandion-Ortner has already stated in the Committee that such short-term allocation is not useful because it does not meet the training objectives of judges. I do not believe that the proposal to employ scientific staff in the Evidence Bureau should be aimed at either. To this end, we need to know that in these offices comprehensive laws are written and decisions are prepared, but the employees are assigned only a few months. In any case, there would be a longer-term employment, as proposed by the Court of Auditors. Other points raised by the Court of Auditors have now been implemented and implemented. Thus, there is now an exact system of performance acquisition for scientific staff. The efficiency of the evidence offices could also be increased by a modern computer use. In summary, it can be found that the Court’s recommendations have led to a further increase in quality. It is therefore also necessary not to worry about the efficiency of Austrian justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26248	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Nice. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26270	High house! I know whether we really need not worry about the efficiency of Austrian justice. But I am not going to talk about this subject, but I am going to follow where Mr Schönpass has stopped. She has already told us that the “privatisation” – I want to put it under the quotation mark – has failed. I do not think it can be expressed in this way, because there has been no privatisation, but a classical administrative reform. A part of an administrative unit has been cast into a seemingly private form, namely into a GesmbH and sold it as a reform, as an efficiency increase and permeability. What happened? – Section VII of the Federal Ministry of European and Internal Affairs, which had 57 employees at the beginning of this so-called reform, should be partially transferred to the ADA. The aim was to reduce the number of these employees from 57 to 32, so 25 employees should be transferred to the ADA. In fact, the ADA started quite modestly in 2004, with 33 employees. ==References== She started her work in January 2004. What happened in the future? – Wonderfully, the number of employees in the ADA increased. Originally, it was 33 employees, in 2008, in which the Court of Auditors ended its investigations, it was then already 88 employees, only in the Central Vienna. 88 employees who play Central in Vienna! In the foreign offices, there was even a small decline in coordination offices. There the number of employees has even fallen from 83 to 73. That is, outside the field where there is work, ten people are taken away, but in the central administration, the number of employees increases from 33 to 88, at least 170 percent, as the Court of Auditors gratefully calculated. But that would not be so bad – in isolation. In the contemplation, this is even more negative. The number of employees of the section until 31. In December 2003, it was actually reduced at the beginning, from the 57 to a low of 46. The Court of Auditors has expressed this in full-time equivalents, but I remain with the natural persons. 2004, that was the lowest station. And here, in the following years, there was a miraculous increase there too, and in 2008 in Section VII, a stand of 56 employees had already been reached – 36,5 full-time equivalents, as the Court of Auditors says. Thus, the reduction of six employees in Section VII is compared with an increase in the ADA to a total of 88. So it is originally made up of 57 employees in the ministry 88 plus 51, i.e. 139 employees; this is an increase of 250 percent. In other words, the reform has brought one thing: The number of employees and thus the costs were increased by 250 percent. The managed funds, i.e. what they have cared for, have remained roughly the same or slightly increased. 2004 – I wrote it down – it was about 77 million, an increase to 84 million in the end; an increase that corresponds to the inflation trend. This is just a little more than it would have been available to offset inflation by operating means. This means: a classic example of an administrative reform in the Austrian sense. 250 percent increase in costs for equal performance. Additional comment unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26325	Mrs Mag. Schwentner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26348	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The question is what you, my colleague, wanted to say to us by saying that you have taken a great deal of account here in the ADA personnel policy. It is true that the Court of Auditors' report identifies a discrepancy between operational resources and the obviously excessive level of staffing. It also raises the question of what conclusions will be drawn from it and what this means in general in view of the dramatic cuts ahead. At the moment, a 10 percent total reduction in space for the ADA is being co-imported. The question, therefore, is how the ADA, which was set up to manage a larger budget, will in future deal with the few funds that are still a discretionary issue. In other words, there may be nothing left and then we will no longer invest in development cooperation at all in the future. And I think it's worth much more discussion than now to discuss the number of people. I know from the ADA that there's a staff decline. Some of them are already being saved. One should actually discuss the wrong situation, but above all it is about how to deal with the question of how Austria will make its contribution to development cooperation at all. It is now taking place at the conclusion of the UN full conference in New York, which deals with the achievement of the Millennium Goals. Yesterday, Federal President Fischer gave a big, full-bodied speech. He said that the countries that contribute little should be closely looked at. Austria is one of these countries. We should look closely at the fact that Austria is also contributing to the objectives to which it has committed itself. We are currently about 0.3 percent of gross domestic product, 0.7 percent of GDP we have promised, 0.7 percent of GDP we have committed ourselves. That is, we are away from making a major contribution to achieving the Millennium Goals, which mean no less than the great concern of reducing poverty and hunger in the world. And it's only more than five years. I think we should look at that urgently and not calculate whether ten people work more or less in the ADA now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26389	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26410	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report on the preparation of decisions by the Supreme Courts is a report that is actually read. The scientific staff do good work at the three courts. The Court of Auditors has no serious criticism on the procedures. In many areas of justice, there would be much more to complain about, ladies and gentlemen, the duration of proceedings. In the area of asylum, we are already used to a lot of grief, as we have already heard in today's debate. In fact, this is only exceeded by advertisements that are brought in by opposition politicians, because they are a prioritized shift to the rear. The long procedural periods of care decisions also have a particularly negative effect. The longer the procedure takes until a decision is made, the greater the uncertainty for the children concerned. And at the end of such a procedure is often not the best solution for the child, but the alienation of a parent, ladies and gentlemen. Procedures against politicians of ÖVP and SPÖ also have a long desktop stay. And then it can already happen that among the storming file mountains some thing disappears, as we have already experienced in the course of the Spittel Investigation Committee with an ÖVP Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Scheibner: Randomly, of course!]] – Randomly, of course. It is, as has been said, very gratifying that the scientific staff at the highest courts can work well and efficiently and keep order on their desks. But good, efficient and above all speedy work should be expected in all areas of justice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It may not be a solution that you have to go through the full instance of your concerns first, then perhaps at some point at the OGH, the Constitutional Court or the Administrative Court, where perhaps much works better than in normal courts. And we must also not ignore the cost of such a course. Therefore, my appeal to the Minister for Justice – perhaps the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP can address this – is: Work up the abuses in your department! These are available for sufficient use. And in the future, we from the BZÖ will be pleased to see whether, as proposed by this Court of Auditors report, it is useful to bring together the libraries in the Administrative Court and in the Constitutional Court. As long as this is not the case, we will continue to work to ensure that justice is properly worked and that the abuses continue to show. Mr Lettenbichler, I hope you have listened to me: It's not like you mentioned it in court before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26453	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26474	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Also a few comments on the decision-making preparations of the three highest courts. All three highest courts employ scientific staff. Their responsibilities are the same, but the rapporteurs are supported to varying degrees. The question is what conclusions can be drawn from it. One possibility would be a written requirement profile, as already exists at the Administrative Court. The task of scientific staff would be regulated in a uniform manner and the technical support for the rapporteurs could be optimised. It would also be to be considered to define a career path for the younger employees, since they are not taken on a permanent basis. And here I think it is very likely that not only appointed judges, but also judges as scientific staff will be employed. This, of course, requires an increase in the number of planning sites. It is also very important for me to stress, especially from the point of view of those concerned, that the problem of the long duration of the proceedings is not actually with the three highest courts, but with those in front of us, because there is often an unacceptable long period of trial. The highest courts essentially adhere to the planned six-month Frist. But this also means, of course, that there must be a noticeable increase in staff at the courts, not only in the judicial staff, but also in the law firm staff, in the writing staff and in the assistant staff. In summary, it can be said that both the Supreme Courts and the Pre-arranged Courts of Justice are required. And I think there are still some proposals for optimization to be expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26516	Mr Glaser is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26538	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors' report on development cooperation and the disseminating of the same in the ADA has been criticised. He is already a year old in the meantime and has already been overtaken in some areas, one could say. For example, there is a new corporate concept of the ADA. There is a new three-year programme that is better divided. There are additional possibilities that have been created, for example in the area of the acquisition of EU projects. More than 10 million are implemented by the ADA. There are the initially as a lack of critical economic partnerships, the 70 in the number, which also already implement a volume of 30 million, so that, I think, one can really say, the ADA works well with its employees, good in the matter and good for Austria, and I would like to thank her very much for this work as well. – The Court of Auditors’ report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some remarks, however, also concern the Millennium Goals, to which the final conference in New York is currently taking place more or less – that is in all media, in all reports. It has also been rightly recognized that there are quite a few successes in the area of health, the fight against hunger and poverty, but that is certainly not enough for us, but completely insufficient. I believe that we should not lose sight of the efforts made to implement these Millennium Goals by 2015 because they are fundamental human rights, and I believe that this must be said again and again in this context. I have therefore also addressed a series of questions to some ministers as regards these Millennium objectives and where I believe that it is not only possible to assign Millennium Goals and Development Cooperation to the Foreign Office and to the Minister of Finance, but also to the Federal Government as a whole. Some did come up with a detailed answer, but some also received zero answers. And if, for example, the Minister of Women on Objective 3 – gender equality, more rights for women – knows only to say: The Foreign Minister is responsible for this, and I think that this is quite sobering and appropriate to Mr Schönpass's speech, as far as I am concerned. It is surprising what a restrictive role women play in the area of development cooperation in the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Finally, I would simply like to say that we all – and especially all ministers – are invited to do our part in the field of Millennium Goals and Development Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26598	There's no one left to say hiezu anymore. The debate is closed. No final word will be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-94 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:02:18]] 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2009/13 (III-97/845 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26641	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26669	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has examined the state of health in the Federal Army and military planning, and the Court of Auditors' recommendations have also confirmed Federal Minister Darabos in its planned structural changes in the health sector. 22 recommendations have been made. Of these 22 recommendations, eight have already been implemented, namely those which are concerned with re-establishing the health system and simply removing and reducing these old loads, which are still being dragged along. The state's sanity is in line with the federal army's constitutional mandate, that is, the establishment and operation of the army hospitals, which is very likely to have a political basis. 40 000 soldiers come to the examinations in the positions, and in these medical examinations it is then quite easy to detect early illness. It is very difficult to complete the federal reform with a savings package of €520 million, but I think that 80 percent of it could already be implemented and the remaining points are certainly on a positive way to implementation. We shall therefore take note of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26702	Mr Gahr is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26725	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) School supervision is actually an essential tool for optimizing and developing our education system, and therefore this Court of Auditors report, which was launched as the first report in 2007, is important. There was a 2008 demand procedure, the 2009 follow-up test, and today, 2010, we are discussing it. But this report is extremely unacceptable: There have been nine recommendations from the Court of Auditors, two have been partially implemented, and six of the Court's recommendations have not been implemented. This report is, therefore, relatively inconvenient. The five summaries were available in the main area of the personnel transfer system, where the expenditure of the school supervisors was not allocated; in the area of regional education plans, the Federal Ministry was a few. There have also been no conclusions in the field of school programmes, no evaluations and no legal obligations to do so. In fact, the working methods in the field of school supervision were also very unprofessional: on the one hand, with computer support, on the other hand, still old with handpapers. So here too, there were no comparisons, a lack of resource control and, of course, resulting in different results in quality management. The final criticism of the Court of Auditors was that there were no standardised systems in the preparation, in the course of the process, in the implementation and in the documentation, but of course also the failures of the Federal Ministry. My impression in connection with this Court of Auditors report is that there has always been a great deal of repulsion on all points towards administrative reform, so that we have actually waited everywhere for the administrative reform and so everything has been simply postponed as a subject. In total, however, I believe it is also the difference between the federal government, the states and the local authorities, and actually – if you want to say it globally – the lack of a desire to reform at many levels. The only positive thing about the report is that I am actually taking away from the committee, where, I believe, we have been able to discuss very positively across the political groups, also with the Federal Minister. I believe that the objective must be simple from all points of view, that we will be offering quality and quality assurance in the future, and that school supervision needs to be implemented as quickly as possible. We need a uniform and clear reporting system with clear targets and targets! In summary, the Court of Auditors has said that school supervision needs to be further developed into an effective controlling organisation, and Mrs Bundesminister has actually tried and explained here in the Committee to remedy this situation and to implement improvements as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26775	Now comes Mr Mag. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26796	Thank you, Madam President. – Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I do it Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for this report on the operations at the Graz City Financial Office on the refund of sales tax to foreign and also domestic companies. After all, we can only hope that this report will not be read by foreign or domestic pre-tax fraud, because the conditions in the Graz City Financial Office – and that is what we really have to say after reading this report – were just an invitation to pre-tax fraud. The facts are on the table: It is true that foreign entrepreneurs operating in domestic sales are obliged to notify them to the financial office of Graz City by means of the monthly prior registration of turnover and an annual declaration. The financial office of Graz-Stadt is responsible for the whole of the federal territory for this type of VAT, and the financial office of Graz-Stadt carries out these procedures. In principle, an entrepreneur is of course entitled to a pre-tax deduction, but here, in the years under review, there have really been staggering conditions in this financial office. The Court of Auditors criticises in its report that the financial office has not even been able to control it accordingly. It was worth € 1 billion in 2007 and 2008 – € 1 billion! – Sales tax paid to foreign companies without any control. Here, Mr President, thank you very much for discovering these shortcomings. In the same period, in which the applications completed rose by about 81 percent to over 86 000, the employees in this financial office have been reduced by one fifth to 24 percent. That is, not the officials are guilty, but here again in the completely wrong place was saved. On the one hand, checks by the Financial Office are intended to demonstrate the legality of applications and to reveal fraud, on the other hand they should also serve to prevent them, i.e. to deter them. . The President, when we discussed this report in March, said quite clearly: In the past, this area was often non-controllable, the practice practiced was neither risk-adequate nor sufficient for a preventive effect. I am looking forward, Mr President, to Mr Moser, ladies and gentlemen, to the follow-up review, in which we will check whether it really is the way our Secretary-General, Mr Lopatka, said in March, that the number of examinations has been increased and that we are trying to work better at European level. I hear the message well, only I lack faith – but the follow-up review will bring it to light.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26844	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26866	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! My previous speaker has already pointed out: Today we spoke about administrative reform in the early days, and we are now discussing a Court of Auditors report – and we also thank you very much for the soundness and efficiency of reporting. – where it is demonstrated that up to € 1 billion of tax withdrawal has been simply taken away. A free letter for companies, foreign companies or domestic companies doing business abroad! It was not checked by the Financial Office whether they lawfully put the claim for refund of the VAT, no, one has paid. You've paid because it's just because it's going fast because you don't make shavings. And if you talk to auditors – I would also like to do so in the course of my internal party activity – they tell you that every official in the financial office controls the extent to which a tax bill, discounts or return payments are actually available to the company in order to get a triple pension, he will pay three times! So checking, checking, checking, the recipe is bad. We also heard that the computer program did not work in this case or was defective. In the face of these dizzying three-digit millions, which have accumulated up to 1 billion euros, State Secretary Lopatka has also almost fallen into shame. I mean, these are sums! We often discuss over double-digit million amounts, for example at the universities; remember, €30 million was the compromise offer last year! We have discussed over €200 million what the teachers are getting to, we have discussed today about an education billion. – So please, this education billion has miraculously flown into the companies’ cash registers at the Graz Finanzamt! That's how it looks! Thankfully, this reveals to the Court of Auditors, and hopefully it can also be thanked for the fact that, in the future, it will be put off that there will be really serious controls, serious repayments, but not the filling horn, because it was so. A second aspect, beyond the VAT refund: In this report, there is also the chapter on Sanity in the Federal Army – no one has yet spoken about it: Hospitals, military hospitals, health care – which represents a double rail. We have a double structure in the army, but this is qualitative, which was also the recognition of the Court of Auditors' report, behind the existing structure of normal hospitals. [[Abg. Head: But expensive is...!]] And this dual structure has been very much questioned by the Court of Auditors, especially because it is, in part, a threat to the soldiers, the people whose diseases are then to be treated. If, at the beginning of this meeting, we have already discussed the issue of civil service and also the military organization, we can very well underline at the end of this meeting the large question of the Court of Auditors, which the military hospitals are approaching. We need to narrow down the structures, in my opinion a replacement-free removal – that is our position. Soldiers have the right to the same quality service as all other people, and therefore: Get away with the army hospitals! Let's go back to a simple, slim, efficient, economical structure! Let us help the people who render their service. They should also be properly cared for in health. And end with this bureaucracy, which still exists at the military hospitals! Thank you, Mr President Dr. Moser, for your good reports. I hope that follow-up reports, just as my colleague has articulated it, are the real quality of the Court of Auditors: that it does not fail, but always puts its finger in the efficiency wounds of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26902	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e26926	Madam President. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In response to my parliamentary question on the cost of health care, Defense Minister Darabos replied that about €59 million was spent on this last year. - So far, so good. However, if the Court of Auditors' report on the health of the Austrian federal army is now put to the fore and if you think of these €59 million, then it already has an enormous blood pressure increasing effect, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, because these €59 million will be powdered without plan, without measure and without purpose. The Court of Auditors says that there is no planning for the medical care of domestic residents. And if there is no plan in the country, if there is no plan here, how does it look when it comes to foreign operations, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] The Court of Auditors further points out: no plan for continuing medical training, no plan for the planned increase in staff levels, and the establishment of timetables for military doctors seems to be over-needed in the ministry. According to the Court of Auditors, some military doctors obviously do not know – more than half, you have argued – that they have to provide service, but do service in their own private coordination with own private patients and not in the military hospital where they should actually work. But it is not only these some black sheep in the White Kittel that are now disasterizing the reputation of the Austrian federal army, ladies and gentlemen, that is a failure of the highest rank, for which Mr Darabos, Minister of Defense, is responsible, ladies and gentlemen. What is happening now is neither our Austrian soldiers, nor the families, nor the Austrian taxpayers, and I can only point to our request once again at this point, and Mr Scheibner will also make the appropriate request at this item on the agenda, namely to suspend the obligation to do so, because this suspension is more than excessive, ladies and gentlemen. At present neither proper training of our primary defence servants nor, as the Court of Auditors report shows, adequate medical care is guaranteed. – Thank you very much! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. New builder: You are eh for the abolition of...!]] I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27013	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27351	Next speaker is Mrs Deputies... – What's going on? [[The sound system of the plenary room begins to make loud cracking noises.]] [[Abg. Mr Jarolim: Madam President, please stop!]] [[President Mag. Prammer can no longer be heard about the sound system.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: The Court of Auditors is hardly there, nothing goes in the house!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The sound's gone! You don't hear me anymore, I think. - Is it going back? [[President Mag. Prammer can be clearly understood again.]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27420	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I think that this was once again an impressive example of how necessary it is for us to renew this House from scratch so that all equipment and all the work processes can be made efficiently. We have discussed this report of the Court of Auditors very intensively. We have dealt with almost all the chapters in this report. On the proposal of Mr Schenk, who meant that the army hospitals should all leave, then we would save ourselves a lot, I would just like to object: If we had no administration at all and we didn't all sit here, that would be the most cost-effective at all. But I think it is important in a democracy that processes for citizens are designed in such a way that there are many influence measures and very many design possibilities. Especially in the case of the army hospitals, for example, they are an important link for foreign operations and also represent resources for emergencies. However, I would now like to refer to the chapter on the taxation of foreign companies' sales. In this respect, the Court of Auditors identified the increasing labour burden on employees at the Graz Financial Office. It has also been found that in Austria we have a much faster solution in the international comparison. This means that we are much faster by paying out money than other organisations in international comparison. And it was also noted – and this has already been said by my previous speakers – that 1 billion € without risk-adequate control from ==References== Above all, it was also presented that the initiative of officials, i.e. the involvement of local officials, weighs a lot of what the system cannot do on the part of the Ministry of Finance. I think that the proposals made by the Court of Auditors are intended to increase resources for comprehensive examinations, and not only – as our Secretary of State Lopatka told us in committee – are important as “great” achievement now two more people are working there. An increase in resources not only has to do with the fact that there are plus two people, but also that it should be a much greater increase in staff. Also, a change from in-after-work to a control in advance is to take place, because recoverys are much less often reimbursed if you insist that you have paid a little too fast than if you control better in advance. More staff is an important point of demand, which we will also take on as a result of the Court of Auditors' report, because we know that the more the financial services are equipped with staff, the more tax debt comes in and other measures are taking place. This would make an important contribution to bringing money into the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27468	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27489	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me, as a member of the Audit Committee, but also of the Court of Auditors, to take a very brief look at the Court of Auditors' staff structure, because it is extremely pleasing! We see this in the new report of the Court of Auditors in 2009/2010. The Court of Auditors has a female share of 42.4 percent among its employees. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] 30 percent of the executive functions are occupied by women, and the sections are also filled with 40 percent of women. Why am I taking this out today? – Because since July of this year a very well-deserved, excellent employee of the President has been appointed Section Chef. I can very, very cordially, Mrs Mag. Congratulations to Helga Berger on the section bar in the Court of Auditors: congratulation and congratulation! [[General condolences.]] The President-in-Office is beaming. That's what it's supposed to be. We need not be afraid of such developments, quite the contrary. I should actually talk about the sanity in the federal army, about military planning. There's something in the arrogance here. My previous speakers mentioned this. I think it is high time that we had the appropriate measures on the part of the Federal Minister. It is important here to cut off old pots and, especially in close cooperation with civil hospitals, to meet the medical safety and care especially for those women and men, soldiers who are working domestically, but especially abroad, that they also have appropriate domestic medical care abroad. We owe it to these women and men. In this sense, as I have said, I very much hope that Mr Darabos, who is responsible and responsible for this, will not only read this recommendation from the Court of Auditors but will also make implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27547	Mr Ing. Hackl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27568	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Every time I deal with your report on sales taxation for foreign entrepreneurs, I get into trouble, but not about the report – the quality of the report is excellent as always, and I thank you and the staff of the Court of Auditors for it. But the content causes trouble. We have already heard from some of my previous speakers, there are taxpayers paid out without testing, taxpayers in an order of 1 billion €. If I now assume that I have only a 5% withdrawal rate or an error rate, this is a multidigit million amount that will benefit us in some budget hole. The second case that upsets me: We also pay off very quickly. We're not checking, we're paying very fast. If you compare the payout periods with comparable countries, we are the fastest in this unchecked payout. The third point concerns the control reports. It is now and then - although little - controlled, up to 85 percent of these controls are also employed without any opinion. This has been forgotten or not wanted. There is no feedback why it was set. I know about financial audits of a different kind in small businesses, where the financial officer can take more than a week for an A4 audit. The fact that there is a lack of resources there may already be voting, but on the other hand there are enough resources. The officials might have to be trained from the quality or take other places of employment. So we don't just need new officials, we need flexible officials, qualified officials for our tax money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27605	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27627	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The follow-up report, which deals with school inspection, is practically prototype of the state of the Austrian education system and education. It's marked by a standstill. Mr Gahr has already said – I would say so so – in a very fine way that the report is inconvenient. There were a few other vocabularys in my mind, but that's the minimum: unsatisfying. What is apparent here is, in fact, a abyss of inactivity, inability, incomprehensibility, when I think about what is being said about quality assurance, regional education plans and so on. It is amazing, from my point of view, that you also put your finger on the Court of Auditors in terms of content precisely of the wounds we have in our Education systems are based on the absence of pedagogical control. In fact, what you write is terrifying. I mean, it has been pointed out for years what we have to do, and nothing happens because the structures – that is, they are too complex. We all know, of course, because of the discussions in recent weeks and months, what is really behind it: the range between countries and the Federation. - But that's just one aspect. Another aspect, I believe, in this system of – I would call it that – black blockade and red announcement policy should also be considered, is the inability within the ministry to comply with the calls. If the Ministry is not even able to document how it looks with the posts, how it looks with the refund, then of course we are right at that point that you mentioned in another report, namely that you are not able to examine how it is with the use of teachers in the national service. This is exactly what is reflected here. In this context, I would like to remind you that the aspect of school inspections is more central. All the countries that have addressed their school system, all the countries that have tried to implement a reform, have started such inspections. They have set up teams that have gone to the schools that have examined how the quality is. You've been looking at everything from school guard to cleaning staff to management. They talked to the parents and so on. These are school inspections. This makes modern quality assurance. Unfortunately, this is a foreign word in Austria. I think that the report is in it: only rarely done. That's tragic enough. I can only say: Stay on it! We'll stay on it, too. We need uniform documentation on the state of the Austrian education system. We need standardized, prepared school inspections. Only in this way can we really get information about the state of our schools. It is only in this way that we can lead to those measures that bring forward our education system. So, thank you for your work! I hope, together in the next few years, we will perhaps put some sort of little in motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27681	Now comes Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. I would like to draw attention to this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Club: The total residence time of your group is 7 minutes. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27705	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment briefly on the taxation of foreign companies' sales. The facts have already been put on the table several times. It is a fact that from 2003 to 2007 the non-insignificant amount of €4.6 billion was transferred to foreign companies. It has been pointed out that the lack of personnel leads to major problems, that the test density has been very diluted and that this results in high amounts of money being disbursed without audit. The situation is heightened by the fact that in 2007 compared with 2003 the double number of tax numbers has been issued and this Negotiation was not as possible that it could be carried out properly. The fact that VAT revenues have been paid out without original evidence also indicates that there is a need for action. It is actually terrifying that the fight against fraud is essentially limited to individual initiatives by a few fewer officials. In times where money is missing at all corners, this is a practice that is unacceptable and is stopped. This is also a very bad signal to the honest taxpayers, who still exist in Austria. This only makes a contribution to the further reduction of tax morality. In this context, I should like to point out a point that concerns the municipalities: It is about basic tax rulings, wherever the lack of personnel is cited as the reason why this issue cannot be dealt with properly. We know that the communities are facing major problems and that in the next few months the majority of the municipalities will probably not be able to budget. It is irresponsible for the financial office to contribute to the fact that the communities do not come to the money they owe. Therefore, the reference to all those who are always talking about this question: It would be good to talk to the communities once. We'll have the opportunity. The Constitutional Court will bring the subject to our attention. I hope that the communities will then be involved in this discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27754	Mr Mag. Gäßner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27782	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for pointing out the rest of the time! So I'm really doing it in two minutes. Considering school supervision and the Court of Auditors' report, it is surprising that school supervision does not adhere to the supervisory authority. However, when you look at it, it turns out: The problem lies in the two levels, here federal/ federal legislation, there land/implementation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's easy: there red and there black!]] That's what it fails to do. I am very grateful to the President for saying very clearly in his statement at the press hour: The school belongs to one hand, in the federal hand! – This is crucial and should also be carried out as soon as it finally comes to the realization that there cannot be nine different schools for Austria. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, BZÖ and Greens]] Because I'm already there: If we give schools into federal hands, we also give the agricultural school to education policy so that it does not happen again as in Kematen in Tyrol.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27839	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27863	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Military sanity is always a complicated matter, at least when it comes to a military army, that is, an army that should really go into operation and go, because, of course, one has to maintain capacities for the serious case, which one hopes will never need, but still have to provide for the serious case. Unfortunately, the Austrian Federal Army is no longer a military force, except perhaps for foreign operations. There is an excellent quality expertise in the Heeresspital in Stammersdorf. Otherwise, it would be time to think here in the future, not just about the sanity system. This is derived from the military structure. I believe that in Austria – as in other European countries – it would finally be time for us to adapt the military assistance system, with the consequences of the Lisbon Treaty with the guarantee of military assistance, with the expiry of at least a meaningful border use on the Burgenland and Lower Austrian borders, with the new conditions of the security environment. It would be time to get away from the forced obligation of the military army, where for six months a few thousand groundmen would be trained to send them home and never put in place again. These, however, all employ the apparatus and, among other things, also the health care system properly. I'll tell you: If you look at how many physicians there are when a ground defense officer comes in, and how few doctors are there when a military assistant comes out of volunteers, you can see what a difference these facilities would have to make. [[Abg. Weinzinger: How do you come to military soldiers if you no longer have military service?]] There is now no military service, dear Lutz Weinzinger, because, with six months of training, no one can use it and therefore no longer be military. How do you get Miliz soldiers? – By finally ensuring that the principle of making a voluntary contribution to the security of one’s home country is something It's special and it's not something tedious that you're moving backwards. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: But you know very well that this is a dream!]] Dear Lutz Weinzinger, this is not a dream, but a commitment for all of us that we take care of it and also work exemplaryly. I know you do it, you know I do it and others here in the House too – unfortunately not many others, if you think that alternative services are more important and better than the service to Austrian security. On the other hand, there is also a problem in the field of health care, especially in the military hospitals, that of course only certain use scenarios, that is, certain diseases, occur and therefore the specialists often become very unilateral. We have tried to open the military hospital in Vienna also for civilians, for the civil benefit, but this unfortunately failed to resist the then health councillor Pittermann because one was afraid that this would become a competition for the SMZ East. This would be an important medical care for the 21st century. District. This is not all right, either, if you prevent it and on the other hand criticize it that the military hospitals have so little utilization. All in all, this is just a symptom of a fundamental problem that has not yet been managed to have a serious discussion about the future of military defence. We do not want this, however, as the Greens want, which in reality aim to abolish the military defence of the country. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Walser: Where did you get this? Where did you read this?]] We do not want that, but we want to have an effective, powerful, modern state defense in the international context. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, on behalf of the honourable Member, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be an interesting basis for a truly well-founded army reform. I hope that at some point we will come to that and not just laugh funnyly, as the colleague of the Greens does, because they lead quite differently in the shield.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e27982	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28114	The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28136	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank all of you very much for having dealt so closely with the Court of Auditors' reports, and would like to thank me once again for the praise that I, of course, would like to share with the Court of Auditors' staff. I would like to point out – and this has been demonstrated by your contributions to the debate – that there is a real need for action, but at the same time there is also the possibility of making the administration more efficient, closer to the citizen and more contemporary through reforms. This is reflected in the reports on health care, school supervision and, in particular, in the context of financial management: Sales tax on foreign companies. If we look at the health sector, it shows exactly the problems we have in the field of health: The stationary capacities of the military hospitals were not tailored to the needs. There has been no planning basis, no demand surveys have been carried out. The medical qualifications of the health care staff were not sufficiently assured and there was insufficient cooperation with civil institutions, although they would have been essential. Yes, even within the federal government there was no coordination of resources. For example, if there was a position commission and a military hospital has given the same barracks, both on research equipment, own laboratories and own X-ray equipment. The utilization of the military hospital in Vienna to the extent of – according to the military's own calculations – 5 percent shows that health reforms can lead to quality improvement, adequate supply, but also efficiency increases and cost savings. School supervision has been addressed. You too have illuminated this in detail. We have the problem that there are shortcomings in the historical school system, that there is a lack of strategic objectives and at the same time that we do not have uniform binding quality standards. It would therefore be necessary to implement an educational reform: with a view to spending and financing responsibility in one hand, uniform quality assurance and quality standards and permanent superior controlling. There is a need for a reform that is absolutely necessary. Considering, in conclusion, the taxation of foreign companies' turnover, it can be shown that staff shortages in public areas can also lead to adverse consequences: Reforming therefore also means that the services have sufficient resources so that risk management and controls can function, and that particular attention is paid to combating fraud. The follow-up tests on the agenda today showed that 75 percent of the recommendations have been implemented. Please help in the sense of an efficient administration that the remaining 25 percent of recommendations will also be implemented! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28187	There's no one left to say hiezu anymore. The debate is closed. No final word is required. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-97 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members List, Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen on the end of the assistance work, while at the same time creating a border guard force with executive powers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members List, Scheibner, Members of Parliament on the suspension of military service while at the same time introducing a voluntary force with professional soldiers and a voluntary militia. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:47:57]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the report of the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture on the 2010 Annual Perspective on the basis of the Commission's work programme and the 18-month programme of the Spanish, Belgian and Hungarian Presidencies (III-151/810 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28262	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one's spoken. We therefore come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 810 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This has been adopted unanimously. I assign the III-151 report to the Committee on Education. [[22:48:55]] 12. Point First reading: Request of Deputies Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship (State Citizenship Law 1985 – StbG), BGBl. No. 311/1985, amended (1135/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28321	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant receives the floor, which is Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28348	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly: Austrian citizenship law is governed by the principle of origin. That is, it is passed on by the parents at birth. There is a single provision here, namely in § 11a, where the place of birth is placed – as in America, where everyone born in America receives citizenship. This is a certain system of illegality that has been inserted in these award stocks. More recently, because of the development of population numbers, especially in the case of children, children can receive Austrian citizenship very quickly under the previous legislation. Example: A foreigner who is rightly established in Austria receives a child from an asylum seekers. They don't marry, they don't have anything else to do with each other. The fact is, of course, that he - or the woman - logically has to pay maintenance by law. Due to the birth in Austria, this child has the opportunity to obtain citizenship already in the first grade of folk school. What happens then? The asylum seekers, who have been there for six years, say: I have a child, this is Austrian. In other words, this is the basis for the humanitarian stay. Right. - We don't want to allow such abuse. That is why this first reading. I am looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28387	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. I'll set the clock to 3 minutes; Total residence time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28409	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing at first reading the request of Dr. Rosenkranz. It is about changing the citizenship law. I can tell you: No change is necessary for my group. We have substantially changed the citizenship law a few years ago, a novel was due recently. And it is not at all clear why this privilege should be removed. There are several, different privileges, that Dr. Rosenkranz has already done. We believe that if a child has lived here for six years without interruption and if other conditions have been met, an application for citizenship can be made. That is why in our eyes this is not in need of innovation. If you, Dr. Rosenkranz – and I have already wondered a little about it – in your statement that this six-year-old child “is getting sufficient knowledge of the German language, way of life, culture, society and values as well as of the European understanding of tolerance, the rule of law, democracy and separation from state and religion and thus without being integrated into Austrian citizenship”, “yes even has a legal claim on it”, I ask you: Don't you put too big demands on a six-year-old child? Montesquieu’s separation of power and, and, and! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's an exception! Read the law! That's incredible! The law has a few more paragraphs!]] I have read it, I have also read your statement, of course, but I say to you one: In our eyes, there is no need for action here. You've constructed some sort of case, and I've read what you wrote here. This is about as cynical as what you described here, Dr. Rosenkranz.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28443	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28465	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can use the FPÖ's current proposal to the Citizenship Act to thank the FPÖ very much for its suggestions and efforts in the area of integration and citizenship. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] The issue is undoubtedly an important one, and it deserves our attention. However, a few figures would be added to the request. When we talk about 2008, we are talking about 3,800 citizenships, about 3,000 in 2009 and 514 citizenships in the first six months of 2010. I could now deliver a lot of numbers, but it is better to discuss this in the Committee. However, I should like to say that important criteria for the award of citizenship are, for example, language skills, basic knowledge of democratic order and the history of Austria, and also the recognition of the Traditions in the new homeland. These were also the cornerstones of the Novelle of Citizenship of 2005, in which appropriate regulations were effectively put in place to prevent abuse. There is no reason, therefore, to become overly active here now. And there can really be no mention of a gift of citizenship. Hysteria, exaggeration, panic, as it happens from the FPÖ, are actually not appropriate. I and others rely on the well thought-out, responsible policy of our Minister of the Interior. There it is in good hands. Let us continue to discuss in committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28507	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28528	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Whoever has fallen asleep in the tightening of the citizenship law in recent years, only he can make such a request, or he simply has to be mean on the road and simply hide that he and his group demand a massive strengthening all the time. Unfortunately, the government parties have been very happy to meet these demands in recent years. For those who don't want to take it so precisely with numbers: There has been a 60 percent reduction in citizenship in the last four years. So if you stand up and claim that children and young people would easily get Austrian citizenship, you either don't know yourself in matter or you deliberately claim something wrong. I'd rather tap second. We have the problem that we have parties that are constantly talking about integration and even children who are born here and who are growing up here, who want to refuse this integration, namely legal equality. We have the absurd situation that every year about 10,000 domestics are produced, who are born here, grow up here, have no other home than Austria and are constantly to be held as foreigners, according to the ideas of the Freemans. On the other hand, however, as the colleague of the SPÖ has already done, it is absurd that six-year-old children are already required to assimilate or integrate or adapt to so-called European values, whatever. Unfortunately, the ideas of the FPÖ regarding living together would bring us into a disastrous situation, and I hope that the government parties are smart enough not to agree to this absurd theater. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28562	Mr Mag. Stadler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28583	Madam President. High house! First of all, I do not think that the six-year-old or seven-year-olds are the big problem in the alleged – what is the point? – ‘Vengeance’ or ‘closure’ of Austrian citizenship. There are really other, more dramatic cases. My group sees a need to amend the citizenship law in the area of withdrawals. They need to be extended. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if someone gets Austrian citizenship, and then it turns out, he really does not want to be connected to that country, then regardless of how he has acquired it, and regardless of how old he is, for example, when he has committed refusal of integration, during an observation period, he should also be given the possibility of the so-called citizenship. Or if it turns out that this citizenship was horrified, or if it turns out that this new citizen has become criminal during an observation phase. I am not thinking of the usual parking procedure, but of the fact that it has become a criminal offence in a truly qualified form. That's where we see the need for action. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, I have to keep a case before you if you have always tried humanity, a case which was also presented in the ORF. It's not that you don't know about it. I want to keep you from this case because he shows that what you are saying here has nothing to do with what your comrades are doing in Vienna. This is the case of Szklarski, which is shown several times in the ORF. He's known to Mr. Jarolim, he's been sent to you by the ORF; we've also been talking to each other about the matter. The case is also known to the other groups of the House. This case looks as follows: A Polish forced laborer is being weakened by an Austrian, by a wine-fourtler, in the last months of the war, bringing a child to the world. This child is stateless because the mother goes back to Poland and leaves the child behind. The current regulation would already allow us to say: Yes, this child has been found on federal territory, so the legal presumption stands for citizenship. In any case, this could be seen in a generic form, because the child had to be taken over simply and simply by the grandmother. It has grown up under questionable circumstances, of course, has come to the poor track, because it was simply superfluous everywhere; a single child from a Polish forced laborer who was simply left behind. An existence that failed from A to Z, a truly poor person, to whom the whole life was somehow pumped. He has become criminal several times and is now trying to get a pension or at least a social security scheme. He has spent his entire life, not just six years, but all his life only in Austria – either in freedom or in detention facilities – has proved to have been here, partly so here, that one can also officially observe his presence. But do you think that the city of Vienna would have been ready for only a second to give this man citizenship? - No, I don't. One speculates that he might die soon anyway, because he is now seriously ill. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the practice! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Szklarski has not been cared for by any political group; Mr Steinhauser of the Greens, I think, took care of him once. He has also, in part, been dissuaded by lawyers. He has not done much, but at least he has shown himself supportive to the ORF; let us say it that way. In any case, I have written for him applications, I have made sure that these applications are made, but the city of Vienna simply does not decide on them – I have already submitted a devolution request – because it is simply and simply hoped that Mr Szklarski will die soon. Then the problem for this state finally settled. – So far as practice, ladies and gentlemen! My appeal now to you, Social Democrats from Vienna: Please talk to your comrades in Vienna again that this case will be done properly! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Because you always say that you are working up the past and the mortgages of the past: That's a mortgage! The child was not born by any evil Russian – who also existed – no, by a highly decent Austrian. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I suspect it once, but at least it has been found in the federal territory. It's also meated if he wasn't a decent Austrian. He was Austrian, the paternity is undoubtedly fixed. [[New call to the SPÖ.]] Once again, I'm just starting to catch it and just once. It also doesn't matter whether the father was decent or not. The fact is that he was found in the federal territory, and he was not treated by anyone as horribly as he was by the magistrate of the city of Vienna, who is responsible for him after years even being claimed not to be responsible for him at all. [[Abg. Rädler: Vienna is different!]] He has been transferred back and forth between a Lower Austrian County Headquarters team and Vienna, but Vienna is now undoubtedly responsible. I don't want to see this in a polemic way, but I want to say that it's late but at least the satisfaction of this person and where he spent his entire life, where fate has put him – he has not chosen it – where fate has washed him down, at least at the end of his life he should give citizenship. Twice shown in the ORF, there is no official in the city of Vienna twice, because one has the hope that Mr Szklarski will not survive. – This is the cynical handling of bureaucracy. That's how bureaucracy works when it cynically passes over people. This is the smooth cynicism of bureaucracy, which you find again and again in all systems. But now it is the task of politicians to raise this bureaucracy to the toes when it comes to dealing with cynicism, and that is why I have presented this case to you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28650	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't worry, it won't take long; it's actually an actual correction. Mr Stadler claimed that no group in the House had taken care of this person. - That's not true. Mr Steinhauser and I have made a request that the Citizenship Act be amended on this point and that people who have lived here for 30 years or more – and exactly this person would be affected – Austrian citizenship will be granted if they are stateless. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He doesn't have any of it, he dies before!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: When the law is changed, it has long been elsewhere!]] I would just like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen from the Committee on the Interior, that: This request was on the agenda of the last Committee on the Interior and was postponed by the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP. – Thanks many times for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28721	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 1135/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[23:05:35]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna National Court of Criminal Matters (092 Hv 38/10s) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz(890 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28760	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no word message. We therefore come to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 890 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters Vienna,..., for approval of the administrative persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilzwird within the meaning of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there exists a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Dr. Peter Pilz; therefore, an official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Dr. Peter Pilz is not approved.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is decided by a majority. [[23:06:57]] 14. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna Neustadt (2 St 23/10v iVm 8 St 49/10) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strache(891 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28822	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28849	Mr President. First of all – and this applies to all cases of immunity that are shown on the agenda here –: It was very surprising for the members of the Committee on Immunities – I suppose, also for the Members of the House – that voting behaviour and what is going to happen in the Committee could be taken out of the media more days before. I think it is very interesting that the media already know this, even before parliamentarians have even voted. As a culprit on the i, as a cream dome, is then even reported in the organ of the Republic of Austria, in the “Wiener Zeitung”: The government's going to give us a hand. This is probably the focus of the editor, what there is at all. In the institution of the Republic of Austria, one does not even know the functioning mechanisms in parliamentarianism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Probably, Mr Stadler, the real constitution will see it this way. But you can't let that happen. In my opinion, it would be a matter for both the President of this House and the Chairman of the Immunities Committee to give the editors of the “Wiener Zeitung” a little bit of a follow-up to extradition procedures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have several extradition requests on the agenda, and it is noticed that the same is not being treated equally. We just had the delivery matter mushroom. He's not going to be delivered. On his homepage he claimed that in the Ministry of the Interior the daily abuse of power in the routine use of office was carried out because there was a certain official post occupied. – There is a political context. We have had this explained in the immunity committee: because he has put it on his homepage. The difference to Mr. Kurzmann, whose extradition is still being treated, is that he did not place on his homepage, but on the homepage of his party, the mosque game, which is regarded as detesting for religious teachings or as detesting. That is why there is no political connection at all. Mr Kurzmann is also only a private person, only a campaigner. The idea that he may be a member of the National Council does not come into this situation at all. There is therefore no political context, he has done so as an election fighter. In the future, as a teaching from the immunity committee, a request to all: Please hang a sign and write a national council member on it. Then there can be no doubt about who did what. Now I come to the extradition matter, which is a very special piece. First of all, you have to look – you don't know at all – in what function H.-C. Strache spoke in Wiener Neustadt: as a private person, as a federal party observer of the Federal FPÖ, perhaps as a state party observer of the Vienna FPÖ, by chance as a national council member, still in a election campaign by Wiener Neustadt! It is not at all certain whether he has pursued a political activity as a National Council. As a result of this procedure, the question arises whether Freedom at all does anything in a political context or whether one ignores it from the outset, according to the motto of what free people do, is exclusively criminal, has nothing to do with politics. - That's your way of thinking! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because I see you smiling, Mr. Ollinger: It's especially yours! How come we're negotiating an extradition today? This is also a special Gustopückerl on the legal side. – H.-C. Strache shows National Socialist re-activities in Wiener Neustadt. And then what happens? – The ORF says that this can only be a slander, that can only be a false testimony, and shows it. What does the prosecutor in Wiener Neustadt do, free, unbound, without interference? He draws up a project report and says that the procedure is being laid down. And that's the unique thing in this case. Why? – An example of this, perhaps interesting for the women of SPÖ: A man beats his wife, she goes to court and says: My husband hit me! The culprit, the man, says: I didn't do anything! –Then it would have been just a slander. In other words, there is a suspicion that a defamation procedure or a procedure of false evidence against the woman will be initiated immediately. That would make sense. This logic has not in itself applied the public prosecutor's office Wiener Neustadt, but it has said it only because the procedure is not yet completed, per se it is not credible, and it wants to terminate the procedure. Since this is necessary and planned, there is a corresponding project report to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, in which the Public Prosecutor's Office asks Wiener Neustadt to terminate the proceedings. See, we've always heard from Mrs. Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner, there are no instructions in the prosecutor's office, she's out there. If you see the act, if you have the information from the act, you know, the Chief Procuratorate says: No, no, no, After consultation with the Federal Ministry of Justice – and the Federal Ministry of Justice is simply the Federal Minister of Justice, so is our Constitutional Building – the instruction is given: The procedure for slandering and false evidence against Mr Strache must be conducted! May please everything that is necessary introduces extradition! This is an unprecedented and unique case that has occurred here. If I had already had this example in the last special session in which we asked for an investigation committee on the proceedings in the prosecutor's office in general, I would have been very grateful. In principle, the practice of extradition – and in it the great coalition and the greens should agree – is only against one side that you would like to have behind bars, but the rule of law does not, in the end, provide for that. The only thing you can do is to create a media vortex that dissolves into nothing. But with these little things, you'll lead your little political mud battle.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28936	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e28958	Mr President. High house! With regard to the problem which Mr Rosenkranz has just referred to, I would like to say, with regard to the court reporting of the government – we have already discussed relevant Majesty galleries today – that is to say, so that it can be contained in the Minutes: The “ Majesty” I am just apologizing has referred to my group as “Bagage” on a flat-rate basis. Now this is also reliable to read in the minutes. “Majestät” is to Klubobmann Bucher came and said that he was responsible for the luggage behind him. This will soon become a crime. Once upon a time, it was a crime, namely, the offence of sovereignty policy, also a criminal behavior. It may be once again when the blacks have more to say. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has their court reports on who will be handed over at a time when the immunity committee and the plenary have not yet done so. - So far, so bad. But as the ORF then reports on this immunity committee, it is significant. On the cases of the Greens – for example, Mr Moser, I have a completely differentiated view; I believe that this was a right decision, but in the other case it is not – is not even reported with a syllable. I've already said it x-time and repeat it: This right of immunity is only available to deal with certain opposition fractions, namely medial. Because of this media pre-conception, this instrument is directed against members of the opposition. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and FPÖ as well as by Dr. Strutz, Linder and Tadler.]] That is why I say in every form: Create It simply makes the right of immunity simple and simple! It is no longer a protection for Members, it is only more burden. I believe that these cases are very impressive. If you compare the cases of Dr. Pilz and Dr. Kurzmann, like colleague Rosenkranz, you have to say: It is only more of a limit value, as is argued here. I really do not suspect that I am a special defender of my colleague, but I do not see any reason in this case to deny the political link. It's just more grotesque. Where, if not here, is there a political connection? It can be said that the political context is confirmed, but it is still being delivered. At least that would be politically courageous. By the way, Mr President, perhaps you can She would also like to make it clear to the Immunities Committee that the statement that there is a political link – as with Mr Pilz – is therefore not extraditional, nonsense. Question one: Is there a political connection? Question two: Will be delivered, yes or no? Not: That is why, because there is a political context, it is not extradition. That's nonsense! That is to say, one can conclude that Mr Strache is being delivered, although there is a political link. But so hypocritical – and I really use this term now – to say: No, there is no political connection, so that one does not have to extradite it, because one wants to deliver it, is simply and simply grossly dishonest, and this should not make a committee a decision-making principle. But it is nice that we can understand this, because it shows how arbitrary work is being done in this committee. That is why I say to you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen: If we want to continue in the "Immunity working group", we must also make it clear, at the beginning of a legislative period or at best for a longer period of time, how the decision-making practice of this committee looks: uniformly! I know you can't do that, I'm just saying it because you're running this working group. [[towards President Mag. Prammer]] By the way, it is your club secretary who is resisting there. This is strange, because it is also cited by your club employee in this court reporting article of the “Wiener Zeitung”. This is in some way in line with the debate in this committee. Create Get off this instrument! If you only abuse medial action against members of the opposition, we will have to defend ourselves differently, then we will have to use the plebiscitary element even more to eliminate complete immunity. Because, once again: Then at least everyone's as bad as it is. At present, only two political groups are particularly poor, and this is also evident in these cases. My request is therefore: Abolishing the non-professional immunity of such closeness to professional immunity that it is practically equivalent to the objective immunity and only then becomes a case of immunity if the Member expressly appeals to his immunity in the proceedings. Otherwise, the Committee can no longer be consulted, because the parties of the prosecutors also stop. Ladies and gentlemen, I say: If Mr Petzner had not possessed the audacity – that is to say, humanity – of “insolence” against a public prosecutor who has improperly drawn up an act of his own, without competent comments on television, this story, which has been lost here, would have not come to the committee at all for over a year; perhaps in a year, perhaps in a few years, perhaps even shortly before the limitation, we do not know. Other ministers, as we know, have had the advantage of waiting until we had to wait. I think of the famous Strasser case, where one has overlooked a thick convolut. All this shows: They misuse the right of immunity against the opposition fractions. Let us therefore simply do it, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] But let us create effective information protection, just as journalists have it, as editors have it, as lawyers have it, as business loyals have it! Let us create the right of the citizen to turn to a Member to show maladministration! But that's not what the device wants! The resistance here is particularly great, because it is obviously the most fearable here. The ÖVP does not want to do this under any circumstances, because you do not want officials to go to an enemy MP and tell what is happening in your own ministry. You cannot do that, it is clear, because it meant that too many control tasks would be carried out by Parliament. We really do not want to afford such a Parliament. A Parliament which confronts the government with cases that are also true cannot be needed, so one does not want to do so. [[Call at ÖVP:Burgtheater!]] – No, not at all “Burgtheater”! I just don't see why an editor should have more protection than a Member if he is told something, ladies and gentlemen. Or does each of us have to get an editor's ID? [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But you already hear the intervening call “Burgtheater” from the ÖVP corner, except by representatives who were not yet in the Burgtheater themselves, who only know it from the outside. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, your resistance to Enlightenment is legend, he is known. That is why my appeal goes to that part of the House in the government, which at least thinks a little of democratic control. Mr Cap, these are the central elements of democratic control: If it is impossible for the citizen to turn to a Member without having to fear that he will soon be called or called by a bower, then that is not a real democratic control. Unfortunately, I have to resort again and again to a case that your then Central Secretary marched through, which is just an auxiliary crutch, where the Strasbourg Court of Justice has said that the honourable Member does not have to call the informers. But this is far from legal order in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and it would be time for that to happen. Last point: I also believe that the form in which it is handled in the Immunities Committee – I have mentioned it briefly – is the form, as is decided here, a arbitrary course. This distinguishes these five cases in an exemplar way. As is decided here, it is simply arbitrary, because depending on the political preference, the majority travels over the minority and then weighs according to taste: Does it fit or doesn't fit? And then you weigh whether there is a political connection or not, or whether the media establishment is strong enough, that you have to fear it. I do not think that my colleague Pilz enjoys so much reputation at the ÖVP that he has not been delivered now. You just don't trust yourself, although it's a section head of the Ministry of the Interior. Had the colleague Kurzmann made the same thing or the colleague Petzner... – No, no, no, no, no, no! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But there is no political connection!]] That's the choice of reasoning; I say it's dishonest. I am prepared for this argument because it is dishonest and because it simply does not correspond to the practice of the committee. [[Abg. Raedler: But you are not in committee at all!]] I'll give you a blank explanation and ask you to, whenever any prosecutor desires to deliver the Ewald Stadler, please deliver immediately! Please, do this! I don't need this committee anymore! I don't need him anymore and have therefore said that it is best to go there only more and just agree with every extradition. Just deliver and confess that you want to deal with the opposition the way you have done it all the time! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] You have long shown in this committee that you are using this instrument with certain media against certain Members, and this abuse is to be kept against you every time. That is why I say to you: Away with immunity, away with the non-professional immunity of Members!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29074	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You can look at the whole thing from several sides. One is, as we are currently dealing with cases of immunity, and it is quite easy to explain, both what Mr Rosenkranz said and what Mr Stadler said. I only remember the case of Obernosterer, where it came to delivery, and to the case of Köfer in this period where it came to delivery, or to the case of oillingers where it came to delivery. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Also a mistake!]] So: To do so as if it were going to be done by political groups, and as if one were to be delivered, but the other were not, is a abundantly absurd representation. When you look at that, you have to separate it first – and it always surprises me that you hide it like that. The Immunities Act states that there must be a connection with the work as a Member of this House. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You will not be delivered because there is no political connection! – But where is that?]] Well, in the law, excuse me! Now we have quoted it in the committee, it seems to have been quoted several times, but it is not inside: with the work as a Member. And if, for example, Mr Petzner, there is a connection to an election advertising that took place in Carinthia during a country election, then there can be no connection with the activity as a Member of this House. This is excluded. If there is a connection with a country election, like Mr Kurzmann, where he himself has pointed out that he is the chairman of the national party, and is putting something on the homepage in a rural election campaign, then one cannot rely on the mandate in the National Council. This alone is not because country top candidates would be treated completely differently depending on whether they happened to sit in the National Council or not. It can't be obvious either. In cases of false testimony, as far as I remember, has been delivered in principle. I can't remember any case in the accusation of a false testimony – Mr Auer has been in the committee for a long time, he will know – where the committee would have decided not to be delivered here, regardless of... [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That was a political connection – yes, extradition!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There's an ad made!]] The political context. – This is an interesting question as to whether the false testimony is in the political context. In my view, this is not the case, because it may not be the case that a Member of Parliament is necessarily saying: I'm obliged to make a false testimony! That cannot be part of a Member's work! – Some may already be, but it cannot be a matter of principle part of the work of Members. But there are also some things where you would have fun if you were to be delivered. If you look at the case of Moser/Grasser, you can say: If Mr Grasser earnestly sought a complaint against the claim that there have been conservative talks at the BUWOG award, there would be nothing more to be desired than that this could really be dealt with in court. In this case, the normal extradition practice has been established, which would have been quite exciting. Now there are more discussions, I think, on Thursday at the club director level, in 14 days in the working group, and there you have to discuss this again. There is now a complete misunderstanding of what you, Mr Stadler, are now promoting in the public, which actually means extra-professional immunity. Everyone in the public outside believes that if I'm on the road somewhere by car, that would be extra-professional immunity. De facto means extra-professional immunity: All that is taking place outside the House's bodies is non-professional immunity. This is exactly the absurdity that has already occurred in several cases. The key word popler has already fallen more often. At the time, Doppelmüller quoted at a press conference from a request he himself made, and then he was sued. So if you don't take this as the core of parliamentary activity, you can really leave it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And who pulls the border? You?]] But then it will be difficult, especially with regard to political information, and I am surprised that Mr Stadler or colleagues from the FPÖ are going to go so far at once and say: We don't need everything! If the core of parliamentary work, for example parliamentary questions, is called into question, then from our point of view it will be tricky. Here you should find a reasonable definition. As far as I am concerned, there has been an interesting discussion at club director level, where there has been approximations about the definition of what this professional concept might actually be, which might be new professional concept. Maybe we'll move on. In this case, however, I would also protect the Members of the Government from the accusation that they are acting here in accordance with party policy criteria. From my point of view, extradition practice is understandable. One can discuss the principle, but what one cannot do is to say, here is to be delivered according to party policy criteria. Whether to change practice is another discussion, which can also be carried out in the working group.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29217	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. Time left: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29238	If the Greens start to protect the government groups, then the alarm is recommended. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now I want to make something clear. § 10 – You can read it! – Abs. 3 says: “Other than that, Members may only be prosecuted by law without the consent of the National Council for a criminal act” – and now the central part of the sentence comes! – ‘if this is obviously not in any connection with the political activity of the Member concerned’. It does not mean that this is obviously in no political context with its political activity as a Member of Parliament. That's a huge difference! If you use the “verba legalia ” here, this is a huge difference. That is why it is not about his being allowed to act politically only as a Member and then enjoying this protection, but about his political activity because he is a Member. And the law does not limit whether he has done so at home with Mrs Schmauswaberl in the Kuching, whether he has done so at a speech in the coffee house, whether he has done it somewhere in a main square in Vienna Neustadt or whether he has done so on the Internet of Mr Pilz. That's not the case! If there was another practice, then it would have had to be applied differently to Mr Strache, but you have decided quite clearly here – and this shows the comparison – arbitrarily.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29296	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. Vote on the request of the Immunities Committee in 891 of the Supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office Wiener Neustadt for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachewird within the meaning of Article 57 paragraph. 3 Federal Constitutional Act states that there is no link between the incriminated act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachebe. If you follow this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is huge!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[23:31:01]] 15. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Prosecution for the persecution of corruption (2 p. 27/09i) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Stefan Petzner(892 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29355	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] There is no word message here. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution in 892 of the Supplements. The following may be decided: In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate of Corruption for approval of the Deputies' official persecution to the National Council Stefan Petznerwird within the meaning of Article 57 paragraph. 3 Federal Constitutional Act states that there is no link between the incriminated act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Stefan Petznerbe. If you join this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:32:29]] 16. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the State Prosecutorate of Graz (16 St 99/10s) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann(893 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29419	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There is no word message here. We shall immediately vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 893 of the Supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the public prosecutor Graz for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Dr. Gerhard Kurzmannwird within the meaning of Article 57 para. 3 Federal Constitutional Act states that there is no link between the incriminated act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Gerhard Kurzmann. If you join this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[23:33:41]] 17. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the Request of the National Criminal Court of Vienna (113 Hv 105/10d) for approval of the official persecution of Members to the National Council Dr Gabriela Moser(894 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29478	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. A word message is not desired here. We shall immediately vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 894 of the Supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the official prosecution of the delegates to the National Council Dr Gabriela Moser will be referred to in Article 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the delegates to the National Council Dr. Gabriela Moser exists. [[Abg. Weinzinger: One must be afraid of justice, writes the “Kronen Zeitung! ”]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Do I speak silently? [[Calls:Yes]] – Then I would like to read the request again. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Let's say it again. In the examination of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of Members to the National Council Dr Gabriela Moserwill be referred to in Article 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the delegates to the National Council Dr Gabriela Moserbe. Therefore, the National Council Dr Gabriela Moser is not approved for an official persecution of the delegates. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:35:26]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-09-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e29553	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 1257/A(E) to 1283/A(E) have been submitted. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] . We have another meeting, ladies and gentlemen, please hold still more! Question No 6382/J to 6406/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 23.36 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
