ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7276	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 69. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 66. Meeting of 19. ==References====External links== ==References== In May 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Kaipel, Gessl-Ranftl, Jakob Auer, Tamandl, Ing. Hofer, Kunasek and Markowitz. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7310	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann will be represented in the afternoon by the State Secretary at the Federal Chancellor's Office Dr. Josef Ostermayer. [[10:03:34]] For business treatment, Mr Mag. Stefan zu Wort. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7355	Thank you, Madam President. High house! I raise an objection to the agenda that the report of the Financial Committee on the Stoneographic Protocol of the parliamentary survey (III-111, e.g.) on the topic of distribution and performance justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness” on the agenda of this meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7382	Also for business treatment: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7404	Madam President. I agree to make one, as I believe, object to at least as important an objection to the agenda as possible. This is directed against item 7 and item 8, i.e. the amendments to the gambling law and the financial compensation law. It is said in a sentence that in the previous activity of the Financial Committee only the arguments of the gambling industry and not of those concerned have been acknowledged. I therefore request that these two points be withdrawn from the agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7454	A further mention of business is made by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7475	Madam President. There have always been problems in filling the agenda of the National Council meetings with appropriate and also in the number of corresponding applications. This is obviously due to the lack of cooperation between the Federal Government, although it is now necessary, at the time of the financial crisis, to work very actively with Parliament on the solutions. One important point here is also the question of performance justice and distribution justice – keyword: Transfer account, which will be discussed again and again between the government parties. There is a plenum mature template of an survey. I don't know why this can't be treated here. That is why we are asking for the report of the Financial Committee to be put on the agenda by 618 of the Supplements to the Stenographical Protocol of this parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7515	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7536	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, on the request that the report on the survey on distribution and performance justice be put on the agenda here: I mean, in the President-in-Office, we have repeatedly agreed that it makes sense to bring this report on this important survey and on this important question together with the expected federal law to introduce the minimum guarantee to the House and to discuss it together. It is all, I suppose, well-known that there has not yet been an agreement at parliamentary level on minimum security for known reasons, namely the fact that a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a so-called transparency database is also being negotiated, so that today the whole cannot be on the agenda of the House. What we decided in the Presidency at that time, namely that it makes a lot of sense to discuss this survey outcome together with this bill, cannot have been right yesterday and no longer today. That is why we reject this proposal. And for the second, to the gambling law... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a debate!]] A sentence to the gambling law: It has been discussed in detail in the Committee's parliamentary bodies. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: application!]] [[Abg. May. Karin Hakl: Yes, to the gambling law!]] There is a four-party decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7609	Mr. Klubobmann, I have to interrupt there now. We've heard the position. We are now only making the statement on the agenda, and the debate will then take place afterwards. I'll give you time for a last sentence. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7632	That was the attempt of a justification. - I'm just saying: There is a four-party agreement to the gambling law, and that must be enough for a treatment here in the High House. There is no reason to put the whole thing off the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7662	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7684	I just want to say: We have made it clear in the President that after the current hour we are holding an objection debate. We can then discuss the whole content in detail. Otherwise, I do not agree with the opposition on these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7711	For business treatment: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7732	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Klubommen der ÖVP and the SPÖ! It is the right of the opposition to object to the agenda if it considers that the agenda simply does not meet the situation. And she won't do that from our point of view! When it comes to such an important law as the gambling law, which concerns very many families, where many families are also faced with very difficult situations, where existences occur within a few afternoons, it is very well justified to object there and propose another agenda or referral back to this law, which is dealt with here without regard to the affected and without any opinion of people who are completely affected by this law. You too have now argued on content! We will do all of this from the speaker's mouth, but the legitimacy of this objection is, as I believe, undisputed.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7763	Mrs Klubobfrau, of course the legitimacy is undisputed. The Rules of Procedure are clearly on this issue. I now have the following oral objections: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan and the objection of Mr Scheibner, who is equal in coverage, to the need to supplement the agenda with the report 618 of the Supplements to the Stoneographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey (III-111 of the Supplements) on the right of distribution and performance in Austria: Transparency and fairness” and the objection of Mr Dr Pilz on gambling law, which means that points 7 and 8 will be withdrawn from the agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. Debates and votes on the amendments to the agenda will be taken after the current hour. [[10:10:28]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7801	We are now getting to the current one. Hours on the subject: “To force women to be equal means to increase economic performance!” I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. The debate is opened by Mrs Worm. I give her the floor and draw attention to the fact that her speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7831	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Economy – pure men's business? Mrs is just a earner, she doesn't understand anything about economy, women and the economy: a seeming contradiction? In fact, ladies and gentlemen: Women have little to say in the economy – not in the financial markets, not in the institutions that should control the economy! Women are often sought in the bosses of the banks, in large economic groups. Not for nothing, ladies and gentlemen, was the name of the American bank that went down first, Lehman Brothers – and not Lehman Sisters! [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] In the United States, only 2.5 percent of the head posts in the financial and insurance sectors are filled with women. Mr Grossruck, this is sad, because over 50 percent of the population are female. And in Europe, these data do not look better either. In other words, and even if it doesn't like to hear here: This crisis was made by men, and men have been driving the risky game of money to the top. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Großruck: The bank is female!]] They did not even see through it again, they took more and more risks – until nothing ever happened. You don't have to be a man to ask yourself if it would not often be better if women decide to participate in these very big financial transactions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are good examples that women can do it if you just leave them. I mention in this context, for example Maria Schaumayer, the longtime head of the Austrian National Bank, who did a good job that the National Bank managed well. Further: Brigitte Ederer of Siemens Austria, now came to “higher consecrations”; Monika Kircher-Kohl leads a large group excellent. This shows that if you give women opportunities, fair opportunities, then they can. They can be economic and not just in the management of the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, women in leadership positions are not often found – and this, although women are very well trained. We have more academics, more women make the Matura, therefore: The economy – and this is now an appeal to this – cannot fail to exploit this potential, Mr. Stummful! There is also a need to give women a chance. Let's also give women a chance to go there, ladies and gentlemen, if they want to get back into the profession after the baby break, that they don't have to start from the front again, but that they can get back to where they left off – and that it doesn't mean a career neck when women want to realize a dream of life, namely putting a child into the world. In fact, women both want to: Child and job. Women want their qualifications to be used accordingly. Women can do this – you just have to leave them, promote them, and must not hinder them. Let us stop with this “woman’s discount”, which means that women, just because they are women, earn 18 percent less than their male colleagues. The path that has now been taken is to be welcomed, and here the Minister of Women and the Minister of Social Affairs was grateful to ensure that income transparency is achieved. This was a good measure, and thank all the social partners. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Sweden has shown how it is going; Sweden is a good example. There are 18 percent differences in income between men and women in Austria – three times as much as in Sweden. Sweden has managed to reduce to 6 percent income difference between the sexes. Sweden, as I believe, is an important and noble duty for us. Of course, there are other reasons – for those who do not have just society in mind – why it is so important that women participate in and in the economy: Growth, competitiveness, competitiveness and social cohesion Cohesion is not feasible without women! And as a very important side effect, it is worth mentioning that the gross domestic product then grows. Estimates suggest that it can be assumed that it can be up to 45 percent in addition if women are used according to their abilities. Ladies and gentlemen, we, too, are called for in politics – the economy must contribute to this: with incentives by giving women opportunities – because we have to create the framework conditions that people can achieve their goals of life, their life model as a central concern, namely to put work and family under a hat. We of politics have to ensure that good and high quality childcare places are available in sufficient numbers. And there's a need for follow-up, especially for the three-year-olds. Yes, it was done a lot, Mrs. Minister: 10,000 additional places, many jobs also for kindergarten teachers. All this is good, right and important, just too little. Investment in education is an investment in the future, as the economist Univ.-Prof. Dr. Aigerger correctly expressed. Therefore: Let's invest in the future! And here I also appeal to our Secretary of State that not at the expense of the children who will not be saved at the expense of our future when it comes to consolidating the budget if the appropriate measures are put in place in autumn. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time – it is time to create more care facilities, not only with regard to child care, but also with the time to introduce school forms throughout the day, so that young mothers and fathers have the opportunity to put quiet conscience and work under a hat. That is – once again – the central concern of women, men and families in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It also has a side aspect if one allows the families: Then there are higher birth rates, because it is easier to say yes to the child, to have courage for the child – and that is also something very central. And by the way, because the family report has now been discussed again and again and again and again the pension system is on the balance: It also benefits the pension system if more in the Austrian state. Ladies and gentlemen, what I wish for is that we have a society – and that is not only a question of fairness, but also a question of justice – in which women and men are equally involved in the decision-making processes in the economy, politics and society. Finally, we are ending decades of discrimination against women in the economy! Let's finally close the income shears! Let us raise women in leadership positions in politics, in the economy and in society! Gender equality is not a luxury that we can only afford in good times, so to speak, as a high, far-off goal. It makes sense now because growth, employment, competitiveness plus social cohesion is without women, is not feasible without equality policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7992	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke on a preliminary statement. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8013	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The title of the current hour is: To force gender equality means to increase economic performance. I am very glad that we can discuss this today, because I would like to remind you of the commitment of the entire Federal Government that it is precisely the continuation of equality between women on the labour market that is so important to all of us. These objectives have been formulated when we may have suspected of what is going to happen to Austria in the face of the financial and economic crisis. All the more important, I think, is that we need to re-evaluate the performance of women in times like these. I would like to raise four points in these ten minutes which I have available. It's about women on the one hand and paid work on the other. That means: What kind of work do women in companies as self-employed persons perform, what kind of work do women as self-employed women, as entrepreneurs? We like to say, and also proudly, that more and more women are setting up companies. But we also have to say that many one-person companies are specifically founded by women, and it is not always true that women get the same great earnings, but it is often so that they need very, very long, until they get first loans for the creation of a company and until they come to deserve second. And that continues: If the woman remains an entrepreneur for a lifetime and deserves a bad pension, she also gets a bad pension. The same is true of women who are atypically employed in precarious working conditions, who stay in part-time employment for too long, longer than they sometimes want, and who, of course, do not have the opportunity to acquire retirement periods to the extent that they will then receive more than a minimum pension at age. It is necessary to know that the most vulnerable groups in this country – which unfortunately has to be stressed again and again – are older women who have to live on a minimum pension, but also women who live alone with their children and, although they work, often have to live below the poverty line. That is, if we consider who is the service providers in our country, who is doing something for society, then we must already find that women are doing a lot of work in addition to their work, which is not perceived at all, which remains invisible and which is not evaluated at all by economic policy, national economics. That's the unpaid work. Now I'm with the second group: Women and unpaid work. – It is of course that two thirds of child care, the household work is still done by women. That also says once again the women's report, which, after 15 years of re-submission, shows that nothing has changed since the parting of family work is still not as male as it should be in view of the fact that in these 15 years of working time, women have gained quite a lot from their education to their qualifications. Women work in paid functions as much as never before. We have as many women in employment as we have never before. Just have to ask yourself the question: What kind of employment is this, and can women of this kind of employment always live? – No, they can’t, because – and this is a bizarre thing – the hourly wage of women working part-time is often up to 30 percent lower than if the same work is done in full-time. In other words, there are many injustices here, and if we want to see women as women in our country and have to be in our country, we have to consider all these components together: Who is doing how much paid work in this country? Who is doing how much unpaid work in this country? And: Isn't that a little unfairly divided, and couldn't that change? Because I think that to look at the economy and a total economic performance only one-sidedly from the wait, how much profit is made in companies, how much profit is made at all on cash performance, on profit, that is too little, that is too short, that is considered too one-sided. I think that we need to ask ourselves the question as a whole: What is the profit at all for society?, and: How do you share paid and unpaid work here? And there's a lot to pick up. What I would like to say on the third subject: Women and children, or: Men and children, no question. Young women want children, but wait longer and longer until the birth of the first child. Family forms have changed considerably over the last 15 years; this is also said in the report on women, which is also stated in the family report. You don't marry as often as you used to. You live together, you separate again. Many children, 40 percent of our children are born unwed, have some different orientations. This is basically nothing bad, but we have to give answers to it and ensure that children are protected. This is very important when we discuss it in times like this: How does it look like divorces? Then how do fathers and mothers take care of their children? Can one really order from the law that both of them have to care for their children, or would it not be a time of “cooling ” of advantage here until the parents have calmed down, so that the child’s well - being is really put in the foreground? I am very skeptical of what this regulation contains. A common concern arises after disputed divorces. I'm very skeptical! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also about the fact that mothers and fathers still do not find the same good conditions for their children throughout Austria when they want to go back to work. It is still in the West, in Tyrol, in Vorarlberg, that the kindergarten is locked up at lunchtime, perhaps locked up again in the afternoon or no more, making it quite impossible to have child care throughout 12 months. This also prevents many women from getting back into work, pursuing a profession at all, because they do not have a childcare place nearby. Now we have dayparents who do good work, but also here, I think, we need to be more careful that more dayparents are trained, and especially that they enjoy the same training throughout Austria. Some have fewer hours and are already capable, some have many hours and are then able to accompany and care for small children well. That is, in principle, what was a success model and what was launched in 2008 is to continue. We were able to create 17 000 new childcare places and 6,000 jobs in 2008 and 2009 with money from the federal government and the country's money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this success model should be continued after 2010, because the money is out in 2010. We should ask ourselves, especially in such difficult and tense times, where we can create the labour force of women on the labour market and the performance of women who urgently need women's talents, the question of how, after 2010, we can also make sure that after 2010, we can create even more kindergarten, baby cribs, but also places with dayparents, so that as a mother, as a father, we do not have to choose either a family or a profession, but here we can achieve both. I am already very proud that the income-dependent childcare allowance has succeeded in taking a first step in the right direction. There will be even more fathers staying at home with their child; this stands out for me and beyond question that I notice when I talk to young parents. Of course, you need to know well what opportunities there are for them, but that now fathers can stay at home and still earn enough money and have some of it, namely to spend a certain amount of time quality with the children, that is something that has been successful and important. The last sentence, Madam President, unfortunately the time is too short: The Federal Government has also known itself to disclose average salaries for men and women in businesses, because it is fair to see why women are still less paid for the same job. This is also a milestone from 1st century onwards. January 2011 Reality is coming. I think we're all on the right path, though I have to say: Together we still have a lot to do here!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8111	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8137	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! To promote equality between women means to increase our economic performance. – Yes, so it is, and I want to justify why. Our women's minister has just shown impressively the various problems. If you ask the entrepreneurs: Why don't you have any wife in the management? Why are 90 percent men among the department heads? Why are the salaries not equally high?, then the heads of staff and others each time have a justification and say that by chance there was no woman available for it, a woman in question was not available due to care obligations, by chance no woman applied, by chance something else happened. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if you roll, it's perfectly clear, it can come out one, two, three, four, five or six. But if you don't even roll, but a thousand times or ten thousand times, and it always comes out six times, you can be sure that this cube is sunk and therefore inappropriate to deliver a random result. That's why we know for sure: If thousands of times, by chance, always only those who have a certain physical feature that comes into the better function or are paid better, this decision has not been made according to the skills, not according to the ability, even after education, we have for many years had the same number of women as men with university degree, partly already more women who have completed higher education. All this is no reason. That is to say, decisions are taking place that do not bring the optimal outcome, and it is precisely that, ladies and gentlemen, that we must change and that our Minister Heinisch-Hosek is so committed to. We must come to rules that ensure that in the future the decision does not focus on whether any part of the body is present or not, but only according to the abilities, according to the ability, after the effort and success. Then women will have 50 percent of all functions, and then their payment will be one equal to that of men. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Once we have achieved this, we will also have a better management staff, because we use the full 100 percent and not only 50 percent. If we have equal pay, there is no motivation, and this increases economic performance, ladies and gentlemen. That is why equality policy is at the same time economic promotion, and this principle, I believe, should all join us in this House. I have been an employer for two decades, and I have experienced very often at this time what causes there are for the existing problems. An example just: If graduates of the Economic University or the Legal Board have applied for a post as a tax advisor and then came up with the question in the application interview, which is what they imagine in terms of salary, women have usually expressed less than a wish by 3 000 to 4 000 S, i.e. at least relevant euro amounts of 200 to 300 €. That means we have to change a lot about the soft factors. We need to give much more information, information on vocational training, but also information for companies themselves, as they can ensure fair payment. I would also like to express my thanks – it was a social partners agreement and now agreed with Mrs Minister – for making this report. To whom does this social partners' agreement help? It helps the owners, it helps the supervisors, it helps the managing directors to see, we have a wrong development here. And if they have the data, they will see that the wrong development will be corrected, and will ensure that women and men are paid at the same level that there are the same career opportunities. This will help entrepreneurs, and this will help our economy. In this sense a thank you to our women's minister, coupled with the request for her further commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8191	Mrs Schittenhelm is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8213	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was said by Mrs Wurm that women can be performance-oriented. . I tell you, the women in Austria are performance-oriented, wherever they fulfil their task, wherever they were placed, and we can be proud of it. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Dr. Matznetter.]] Then: Without us women nothing goes in the economy, without us women nothing goes in the families, without us women nothing goes in politics, even if we only make up 28 percent in the house, which is embarrassing, but we are developing the forces, the ideas, the intellect that is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not distinguish between physical characteristics here, I distinguish what the social and social need is. We need the equality of women in all areas of our society, otherwise we cannot continue a positive development accordingly! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it was presented to the media by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek a few days ago. I thought there had to be special measures now, or the image of the life worlds of Austrian women had changed completely, because there was such a media report and headline palawach. – With no exception, nothing has changed, everything has remained with the old. It's just another thing: In contrast to the family report, this report did not come to the relevant equal treatment committee, has not been discussed and is not discussed here in plenary. Maybe we'll have a chance sometime. I think that is strange because this report could be the basis for a discussion on the development of women outside the communities, the countries, the districts and the localities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in all these press releases I have read that no women's report has been produced for 15 years. This should be done a little bit, because, of course, there was a women's report from 2003 to 2006, under the then Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. I don't know why you're hiding it, because you could build on it and draw comparisons on it. Apart from that, there are several studies, such as those of Professor Zögernitz, where the situation of women is very likely to be illuminating. It was only a few weeks ago that he presented a very, very good study. There is, and we all know, the Court of Auditors' income report, which we discussed here last year in plenary, after we have it in the competent Court of Auditors. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has discussed this in depth. This is the case so that all the Members of this House are involved and can also express their views. I think this is absolutely necessary – instead of passing by the Members' reports to the public with Parliament's reports! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if today’s theme of the current hour “forcing equal opportunities for women means increasing economic performance!” then I can only confirm that. This also shows that this must be said, the European Commission's report, that the elimination of wage differences between women and men, which have already been addressed today, could increase economic performance by 27 percent in the European area. In Austria, as indicated in this report from the European Commission, GDP could be increased by 32 percent by removing wage differences between women and men. And we're leaving this opportunity out, ladies and gentlemen! Why, I don't know; maybe someone can answer me. The fact is that we seem to keep open eyes on the other hand, to take the knowledge, the ability, the social competence of women, young girls into the development of our country, into the economy. To this day, the skills of women are not really valued properly, not valued properly and not rewarded accordingly – and that must be an end! To this end, my Ladies and gentlemen, there are other approaches; the report is available. One can now discuss this, but today, as has been said, the question is: What to do? And I expect answers from a women's minister. I expect that we will start with – and this shows all the studies – raising wages very well in women's incomes. We need to do something in the collective treaty area. And we absolutely need – because it is essential that these income shears continue to disperse, the career choice of young women and men, and we have to do so – a comprehensive mandatory potential analysis of the two last school classes, so that they can more easily recognize their talents, of which they often know nothing, and thus choose the right school type for them, but above all the right teaching profession. If 70 percent of girls always take only one out of five teaching occupations and 48 percent of boys always take one out of ten – there are a total of 260 teaching professions offered in the Republic – we know: It's sick here! There is a lack of information here, and above all there is a lack of commitment to test these young people and thereby give them the opportunity to recognize or to make clear to them where their skills lie. I expect these tasks to be done. It is good and nice that the social partners have signed, but where no action is being taken, I am afraid nothing will happen either.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8295	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8316	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Yeah, women are the same, but not the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schwentner: What exactly does that mean? Can you do this, please?]] “To force women to be equal is to increase economic performance!” – in the current women’s report, this is already disincentived in a number of ways, as Farce is being exposed as “the lifting of the women’s quota” in order to push women out of family work at all costs. The report clearly shows that native Austrian women aged 25 to 54 have an employment rate of more than 80 percent. In the current women's policy, a number of things go beyond reality. To claim that only by extending the child care places of the birth strike is to be prevented is an absolute insanity. This mistake is continuing in the area of concrete measures and projects, for example at present with the compulsory salary deposit. After all, small and medium-sized enterprises are still excluded from this measure. However, for the companies concerned with over 1 000 employees, the administrative burden cannot be underestimated. Please, believe me, as a wage calculator, I know what I'm talking about. Questionnaire is also the effect of the salary disclosure. Whether this instrument, which you, Mrs Minister, will really contribute to improving the incomes of women in Austria, will prove to be the case, even if it has numerous cut-offs. We cannot speak of a “millstone” at all. Apart from the content of this new women's policy invention, the implementation is also quite interesting, because it has already become clear at the beginning that the two government parties do not really agree. The ÖVP is opposed to the sanctions demanded by you, Mrs Minister, for companies that do not want to comply with or cannot comply with the disclosure, and you, Mrs Minister, are simply going beyond that and now want to introduce a black list that reminds me of communist times. What shall happen to those holdings that do not comply with the disclosure? Whether to boycott them or delete their promotions [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You probably don't know that exactly in the ministry itself. In order to really improve the income of women in Austria and to prevent the career nod after the baby break, there are more sensible means. For example, in the event of a break in employment, Karenz says that the times in collective contracts should be calculated. This does not punish those women who choose to have children by having to cancel when calculating the years of service in the collective contract. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have already put forward a request to open negotiations with the social partners on this subject, and I very much hope that you will support it. I have also made a request to upgrade part-time, which in turn would lead to a significant improvement in the situation of women in Austria. It's absolutely absurd to talk about part-time. Women want to work part-time. Part-time is the best way for women, the job and the family to combine. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The problem we have with this is that in recent years, new women's jobs – as well as the women's report – have been created mainly in trade, education, health and social matters. On the other hand, women's employment rates are in production and tourism. There are more and more precarious employment conditions that offer only minimal and insufficient social and labour protection for women in Austria. Wages and salaries from these service conditions hardly allow for independent economic survival. This must be done, but not with pressure towards full-time work, but with the development of highly qualified part-time jobs, whether through funding or through legal measures. In this sense, I wish for Austrian women's policy more orientation on reality, more attention and more vision for the essential! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8392	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8413	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bundesminister, I appreciate you as a wise, intelligent and committed woman; as a minister, however, I have You have the same problem as so many committed enpolitics before you, namely that women's policy in this Federal Government has no significance and simply no importance. I miss the Federal Chancellor today, I am now missing the entire ÖVP Group. There is no longer anyone present in this debate at all. [[Call the ÖVP:Na hello!]] – Look around in your ranks! That's really embarrassing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In particular, I miss the major projects of this Federal Government in order to actually enforce women's equality and not just to move on with one step, but to take really big steps forward. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The colleague from ÖVP asks me where I am so often after 6 p.m. – Yes, that’s true, I’m often not there after 18:00, but I have two little children, and I’m proud that I’m making doubles. I don't know how many times you're at home with your kids. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now try to draw attention to women's equality, especially the men of this Federal Government and the High House, and I try to compare it with a comparison from football: When Didi Constantini took over the Austrian football team – that was after the Euro in 2008 – the Austrian team was in the FIFA world rankings beyond the 100th. In the Global Gender Gap Report, this is a study carried out by the World Economic Forum, in which women's equality is assessed in different countries, Austria was quite similar at that time, namely at number 104. While Didi Constantini has managed to bring the Austrian national football team to the top 64 of the world rankings within this two years – although we do not play in the World Cup, but still, place 64 – we are in this global comparison of the World Economic Forum, thanks to Faymann, now in place 122; thus, a really significant deterioration. I am now deliberately saying “thanks to Faymann” and not “thanks to you, Mrs Federal Minister” because I really appreciate you and see your efforts, but there is simply nothing going on in women’s equality, especially in the economic field. It goes in the other direction, and you have to take that very seriously. What I think is particularly important today is the specific situation in which women are still at risk of poverty, their situation, acute poverty, and the problem that they simply earn less when they work. There are two very concrete projects to achieve a change in this respect, namely, on the one hand, the introduction of a real basic guarantee and, on the other hand, a legal minimum wage, a truly legal minimum wage, which is clearly above what some women still have to work in these low-cost industries. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We miss that. Doctoral assistants, notaries' assistants, lawyers, advertising agents, mostly women, are currently not covered by collective contracts; they can only be helped with a minimum statutory wage. The fact that poverty is still female and that many now have to cope with a much more difficult life-sickness through the crisis is, I believe, obvious. Not only since the recent disaster in the financial markets have we known that there is a social gap in this area that has to be dealt with. It is all the more incomprehensible that, for months now, this project is junctified by the mini-guarantee, which has already been lost, and is drawn into a government dispute – without regard for those concerned. Hundreds of thousands of women wait for support from your side and do not receive it because the red and the black wadel are bitten on each side by the red and black government partners. I find this spectacle to be deplorable on the back of the people concerned. Finally, put something forward so that we can help these people! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I cannot speak today of women's policy and women's and their situation in Austria without mentioning a woman who and their family are all of our solidarity, and that is Arigona Zogaj. I cannot spare you, especially the SPÖ Members. The laws that have allowed such a situation, you have agreed. The responsibility for this political play with this family – it was really destroyed politically – is also borne by a federal government, an interior minister who has chosen this family as an example to demonstrate hardness in order to give himself a political image. – We all share the responsibility not to let this family down. The Zogaj family belongs to our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8494	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8515	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “To promote equal opportunities for women means to promote economic performance!” – The fact that women are treated in the labour market as men is a matter of justice, but not a question of economic performance. Should not economic performance rise – and this is not far-reaching in view of your policy – then do you think that women are guilty of it? Or how else can it be understood? In principle, there is nothing wrong with bringing a political message to the fore, but you are going the opposite way: They save on meaning and make longer headlines for it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you already want to force gender equality on the labour market – you don't want to implement it – then you could have started by a long time, with the implementation of the BZÖ requirement after a legal minimum wage of €1 300 gross. These are real 1 000 € net, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would have enabled you to create justice and increase purchasing power. But the title “1 300 € minimum wage implemented” is probably too short for you, and the work behind it is too long. There is enough work to be done, since Austria is far behind in the field of equality. There are several reports on this – the Court of Auditors report, the EU Equal Treatment Report and, lastly, the Women's Report that has not been debated in the Equal Treatment Committee until today; we will be able to address it briefly today, and I hope that we will be able to discuss this report in detail after the summer break – but nothing has happened. The problems are obvious, they have not got better, they have become worse. Tag salary shears. – Mrs Minister, you are proposing a blacklist to list companies that pay unevenly. It won't do anything. You will not continue if you want to punish the economy with classbook entries, Mrs. Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At least in the social partners, you should have an important word to say. There you could prove that your concerns are not only to be enforced at SPÖ parties, but that you can actually implement your concerns when it comes to people's needs. There is still much to be done in the collective agreements. In principle, what would still be noted on the subject of equal treatment: It is already to be started in the course of training and not just in the workplace. It is well known that we have a large deficit in women in technical and scientific professions. What are you doing? – They turn off the program “Women in Technology”. Perhaps someone in your ministry believes that the campaign “Find your own way!” sounds better. It would be nice if you would once find your way in women's policy instead of constantly changing the direction. One of the fundamental problems that this government has is that it delivers campaigns, but no solutions. You say now that you want to force equal treatment. I now have the impression that you've been dealing with a foreign word and didn't understand what it means. Forget the word “equal” in equal treatment That's her. Equal treatment measures should also be implemented immediately, not in a few months, not in a few years or perhaps not at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this context, I should like to address the emergency home for forced married people, which was enshrined in the government programme and which was highly praised in 2008. There have been almost two years – and this emergency apartment is still not available. Finally, something you should finally take up and can, which really helps women immediately, a core requirement of the BZÖ, namely: the abolition of the amount of child's allowance. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would really help women in Austria quickly. I may appeal to you, make You'll be right there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8610	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8631	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is necessary to give Mrs Heinisch-Hosek the advice that she should find her direction in women's policy. It is their consistent way, in all peace, determined to take step by step, to thank women's policy that Finally, there is active emancipatory women's policy in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Her statement, Mrs. Federal Minister, was quite clear that you are determined to undertake really big projects. It's been a little more than a year in which you're in office now, and it's been a long time. You've managed a lot. They have addressed many important projects and major problems and issues. There is a national action plan on equality policy. This is so important because it ensures that you do not say: The Minister of Women is supposed to do this alone, she can see where she is staying! – This is not the way to continue women’s policy. Through the National Action Plan, coordinated by the Minister for Women, where she is the active engine, all members of the government are involved in taking important steps towards equality in their areas. This is a truly big project in this period of government. They have started – an important issue – to further improve the framework conditions for women as regards the compatibility of work and family life. It has already succeeded in creating 10,000 new childcare places in one year. That's a lot, we've been running for years. That's a really great performance. There is the mandatory free kindergarten year, in Vienna there is even the Free Kindergarten for all children from zero to six years old. For all children a contribution-free kindergarten – this is a really great performance. Vienna is also a model for other federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The income-dependent child allowance has also been on our list for many years. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have managed to implement it. You are also attacking a really hot and very important iron – you have already succeeded in agreeing with the social partners – namely income transparency, in order to achieve more transparency in incomes. It is not a question, however, of setting out an individual, but of really illuminating the structure in order to better identify where one can stand and set up in the respective operation. As part of this active emancipatory women's movement – and this is so – the first women's report is again available after 15 years. It is a very important basis, a comprehensive basis, an analysis of all the areas of life of women that allow us to learn where we need to start with what tools we need to use. Of course, in the last 15 years there has also been some small study, that is true, but this report is a comprehensive view, where many highly qualified scientists have explored all the areas of life of women, namely the desire to show deficits, to show where there are still areas of problem and where we have to start. Of course, we are not yet at the end of the way – no one knows better than Mrs Heinisch-Hosek – but we still have to take many measures to achieve real justice for women in this country. Where women have really picked up enormously – this is one of the important results of this women’s report – that is in the educational situation. Compared to the early 1990s, the proportion of women who have only a compulsory degree in education has halved, with the proportion of those women who have a university degree doubled. This is really a breathtaking catch-up process that the Women made it here. However, they cannot yet implement it in broad areas as regards their professional activity and their income, and this is, of course, the women's policy challenge for the next few years. We need to explore from teaching to university education: In which areas do the girls go?, and we must motivate them to go to areas where they are under-represented, but where the greater career and future opportunities and income opportunities exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8715	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8737	Madam President. High house! It's right: The economy and society cannot give up on women. Let me have a brief inventory here. In Austria, 52% of the population are female. Women are very well trained, that has already been mentioned, and 66.4 percent of women are employed. And what's more, We all get older and older. Women, on average, reach an age of 82.9 years and men such as this of 77.4 years. What do we want women? – We women want to be independent, we want to practice a profession and so do it. But we women don't want to give up on family and children either. Therefore, we need – it has already been addressed – appropriate framework conditions that are adapted to these new challenges and to these new living conditions. When we look back: We have been very, very successful in recent years, for example, the tax deductibility of childcare. This tax deductibility is a long-term requirement of “woman in the economy” because especially the entrepreneurs were those who recognized many years ago that it would not go without this additional childcare. It has always been a very hard fight with the Social Democrats, and I am very, very glad that many Social Democrats have now finally turned to our line – and other political groups as well – and decided on this admissibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is very important for women to be able to take care of their children – because many women do not have jobs from 9 am to 5 pm, but also work in the evening, work on the weekend – and then get a corresponding tax deductibility. In this context, a great deal of thanks to our Secretary of State Christine Marek, who has done this very, very strongly, and of course also to the ladies and gentlemen who have decided to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Where is she now, your highly praised...?]] However, it is still too little that we only have this tax deductibility for childcare until the end of 10. I've been living. Everyone who has children knows very well that even later, when they come to puberty, children need appropriate care. That's why we're supposed to have this tax deductibility to the 15th. Expand years of life. And what's going on, and then women help us again: We also need a tax deductibility for support and budget support. Only if we ensure that child care is flexible and manageable can we provide women – for all women – with the right space to live independently and that they can exercise their profession and choose for themselves. Another point has also been raised: Training and education. At the moment, the girls are mainly in ten professional groups. I'm just mentioning a few: Hairdresser, cosmetic, secretary or saleswoman. These are exactly the professions where women do not deserve much. That is why it is very important – and previous speakers have already said it – that women and girls get into other professions early on and learn other occupations to have more income. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Tischler!]] But everything, ladies and gentlemen, that is important to me, is important to us as an ÖVP – everything without compulsion. It has already been very, very much talked about economics today, and I am particularly pleased that the Social Democrats have also mentioned the economy in particular. I can give you a very positive example of the entrepreneurs: 37, yes, almost 38 percent of companies are run by women. New creations, which have already been said, are 41 percent. If we add to the number of wives involved, i.e. those who share a company with their husbands, then we have women in the economy the majority. It also says: the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – And this, ladies and gentlemen, everything without quotas! Mr Matznetter, you said: More women in the economy and in the leadership positions! - Please, we did this in the Chamber of Commerce! The ÖVP or the Economic Federation has two vice-presidents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You could've left a woman's position, it won't stop you. You also have great women in your group! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] As regards action plan, I am still important to mention that there has been an agreement: no quotas for private supervisory councils – a very essential point from my point of view! – and there was an agreement for the increase of the weekly allowance. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In conclusion: We of the ÖVP stand for freedom of choice, we stand for independence and diversity and fairness. Personally, I do not want a premise, I want women who still remain women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8835	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8857	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The SPÖ held today a current hour under the title “Forcing equality of women means increasing economic performance!” The title actually means that women are in the process of increasing economic performance, so they should be cheap labour on the labour market. – This is the objective that the SPÖ is clearly pursuing here. If you've been listening to the SPÖ guests like this, you really have to ask yourself if you're in the wrong movie here. Women's spokesperson Worm comes here and says we need more childcare places, we need school forms all day, and we need to change something in the pension system. – Mrs. Wurm, your party is the chancellor, you can do this! But of course there are also here. the trade unions. Obviously you slept there, otherwise you wouldn't have to ask for this today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The speech by Mr Kuntzl was particularly exciting, which said: Finally, emancipatoryly, something goes on in women's policy, because the Minister of Women is so committed. – This was a devastating criticism of all the other women’s ministers who were in office before her, i.e., Mrs. Silhavy. I actually missed your call. I wonder if you even know what you're saying here. In reality, this is a swirling of the SPÖ on a neoliberal course. In fact, they want to push women into the economy as cheap workers and at the same time separate the sexes. That's exactly the goal you're pursuing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also does not benefit anyone, Mrs Kuntzl, if the kindergarten is free in Vienna, but parents do not get places at all, or if parents who register their child for a full-day place in February are assigned a half-day place at the end of May. This is something that parents really don't use at all. Since you don't need to place great, there is now the Free Kindergarten, and that is to stay if no one has anything of it, because in reality there are far too few places. That's all kind of an eye-catching, and it turns out that your women's policy has really to fail, because you have had no other topic for years than the equality of women. Obviously, nothing goes further – or the women don't care about your policy. I'm telling you quite honestly: They operate ideologically motivated women's policies for a very, very small clientele. Most of the women have nothing to do with their policies and have nothing to do with them, because the wishes of women are quite different. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Women don't want to move their children right away, best right after birth, best right after maternity protection in the kindergarten. Many women want to stay with their children voluntarily, many women would like to have qualified part-time work, and it is up to you and the trade union to make them available, because there is a shortage in this area. It is not the women who want to work all day and who see this as a trap when they work part-time, quite the contrary, because this is the possibility to unite work and family meaningfully and to put it under a hat. This is something you may not want to understand because you look at it through your ideological glasses and therefore you do not like it, but these are the situations of life and the realities of life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you regret and, of course, rightly complain that it is the women who are affected by poverty, I will tell you: Yeah, that's right. But at the end of the day I'm wondering, Why are the salaries so bad in women's typical professions, especially in the social professions? Where's the union? This would be a task for the trade unions to ensure that wages are raised in women's typical professions! Then you don't need to cry about a payroll, and then we don't have to try by force to push girls into professions that they don't want to take! What does it mean to say to a young person: Just don't learn the profession you want, go to another one, because you deserve more!Unknown term type: "%s".? These people may then be unhappy all their lives. It would be much more sensible if the trade unions were to sit together and would be able to do so once more. Consider whether it is possible to do something in those areas where many women work, in order to increase salaries in a meaningful way. That would be a women's policy that would really help women! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or the vulnerable pensioners: Of course you're right. Many women and, above all, women with children are then disadvantaged by our pension system at the age. But that's in your hand too! For God's sake, see how many mothers there are who have no pension at all, who have raised three or four taxpayers and do not receive a cent pension! This is an injustice that is immediately remedied. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You would be asked if you could score as social democrats instead of trying to get a neoliberal course and get that of the ÖVP. This is the completely wrong way, which does not bring anything at all – most of all the women and the children.. If you would like to raise the birth rate, Mrs. Worm, then this is a great goal and a pious desire, but it will not be fulfilled by saying that women are now to be the economic operators. This will hardly increase your birth rate, because no woman will voluntarily choose a child if she knows that she should go back to a cheap job immediately afterwards and perhaps work on the bond.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8971	Mrs Mag. Schwentner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8992	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! So much excitement doesn't do well, because then it gets so confused and confused, you don't know at all at all – except that it's to be heard that much of what you're talking is passing away from reality. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] You would have to think a little further, so instead of just thinking about the momentary, immediate desires of women, about the consequences of continuing to pursue your ideas. I think you miss that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With all due respect that Eva Glavischnig has already expressed to you, Mrs Minister, that you are pursuing this with honesty and persuasiveness as regards income shears that are going on dramatically in Austria and do not close: But it is amazing and also interesting when you hear the members of the SPÖ – but also those of the ÖVP – and complain all of this state, but forget that they have government responsibility. They should take appropriate measures to close this sheath. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Let's do it!]] - I'm coming to talk about what you're doing now. So I have to pay tribute to the commitment, but at the same time express my disappointment, because the model, as it is now, certainly does not reach the women. If income transparency and disclosure concern companies of 150 or more employees by 2014, this means that only 1 percent of the companies in which women work will be affected. That is, 99 percent of the companies will not be affected by this model, and I think this is difficult and extremely short-sighted to be satisfied with it now and thus to paralyze the discussion by 2014. I am actually disappointed and do not understand why, from all sides, a “milestone” is now being spoken of – this has already been indicated several times today – but also of a great change that will take place. I am sure that in the next few years, when it comes back to income shears and data, it will look exactly the same as it is now. I am extremely skeptical and less confident about this model. I see it as a pebble, and I see it as very important to raise awareness. It is a compromise that you obviously had to enter into with the social partners, all of whom are male-dominated. The question is whether you should not have gone back again, perhaps other partners and allies should have been looking for a well thought out model of equal treatment for businesses. I would like to take less account of the biologists and the eternal arguments of Mr Gartelgruber, but it was the economic success that results when it comes to proper equality between men and women. The economic success is in fact: Indeed, it is a successful policy on equal treatment in relation to gross domestic product. That means when we're talking about business: There is a study from Sweden – which you may have wanted to address at this current hour, but it was not mentioned – which says that in Austria, GDP could be increased by 32 percent if a successful equal treatment policy were to be pursued. - I don't see such a one, I haven't seen her for two years. Much is done on the subject, but little is done. One thing, however, has been implemented by our ÖVP economic party, namely a follow-up school for women, an academy in which women can learn leadership skills. – Women need no follow-up! Women and men need appropriate starting conditions, and they are not fair right now, yes they are not given at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A short while ago, on a subject that concerns me and which Mr Zinggl has already dealt with a lot of things, on the culture that also has to do with the country's economic performance. The Vienna Philharmonics are facing a new contract; it is to be concluded at the end of June. For ten years, the Philharmonics have received 2.3 million each year to promote equality and to increase the rate of women. In 2000, these were two women of more than 100 musicians, now, 2010, there are three women of about 120 musicians. How is it that for ten years 2.3 million are put in the orchestra – and nothing just happens?- Oh, my God! And now we are facing the extension of the contract, and as it seems, the call is too quiet. I am really asking for your support, Mrs Minister, and for you to take appropriate action with your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9059	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9080	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Equal rights and equal opportunities for women should be seen in the 21st century. ==References====External links== It should be obvious that women, if they want to, can reconcile work and family. It should be obvious that women in senior positions are active in the various fields of work, and it should be Of course, women, if they want to, are active in politics and at all levels. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In practice, we all know that it is not always so, and we all need to unite our forces to ensure that the framework conditions for the different living and working needs of women are adapted accordingly. I don't think we should make the mistake of going back in a direction where we're getting the woman back with a cliché and a role model. There have been times when it has been said that a good woman with children is the one who rears her children at home. That's an excellent mother, that's an excellent woman! – And now we move in a direction where we say a good mother, a good woman is the one who works full time, who in addition organizes her “company household” and who as early as possible gives her children to extra-domestic childcare. This cliché does not exist – like the other one I mentioned earlier – and must not exist! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is somewhere in the middle. I say very consciously here: Not every part-time job has something to do with inequality treatment, but inequality is for me when part-time women are disadvantaged with care obligations in the pension. We know that there are thousands of women today who do not have their own income in old age and are absolutely disadvantaged. Unequal treatment is also provided for me where women work in health professions, in care and care professions and their wages are located in the lower segment. Unequal treatment is also given to those who care for, maintain and, in the sense of generation solidarity, ensure that everything is maintained and their work is still of little value compared to employment. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I have been very careful on your speech today and I am now holding fast: You have said for the first time today that we must recognise the benefits of women as a whole. And you have also said for the first time today that it is also about evaluating the work of women towards family. But I have to say: I hear this very well, just, I miss a little bit of faith that you will really implement it. Mrs. Federal Minister, you always say you want to be annoying. – It’s good if you’re annoying, but I think a salary deposit of 200 establishments with more than 1,000 employees will be too few. I would like you to be annoying when it comes to the collective bargaining of the social partners and to ensure that there is a minimum wage – a minimum wage of €1 300 – which is primarily for women. I want you to be annoying when it comes to abolishing the amount of child benefit. I want you to be annoying when it comes to implementing the protection of women in old age. There has been a good request from the BZÖ for years with the demand for a generation fee. I want you to encourage women when it comes to not being so reticent on salary negotiations and discussions, and that you make women know what it means to be well-trained, also in terms of self-employed life. However, I do not want you to “back up” your political work with millions of heavy campaigns. You, Mrs Minister, turn on advertisements that do not actually bring anything that does not contain real information, but in return, in the field of technical professions, projects such as “FIT” or “mute!” are offered to the Minister of Finance, for which no more money is released. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, equality policy can only work if more women trust in political activity when more decision-makers bring the female perspective of things into politics. But quotas are actually only a temporary solution for us from the BZÖ. We from BZÖ see women not only as an economic factor, not only as a family factor, but as a qualified majority of society – a society that today needs to set the right course for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9190	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:23:20]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9211	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:23:33]] Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9518	We shall now proceed to the announced debate on the objections to the agenda of Mr Mag. Stefan and Mr Scheibner's similar objections to the agenda, supplementing the report by the Financial Committee on the Stoneographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on "The distribution and performance of Austria: Transparency and fairness (III-111 of the supplements) in 618 of the supplements, as well as the objections to the agenda of Mr Pilz, Member of the European Parliament, concerning the abolition of item 7 and item 8 concerning the gambling law Novelle. The following voluntary statement was agreed by the members of the President's Conference in respect of the objection debate: Firstly, the objections of the three opposition parties are made by 5 minutes each and then by the speeches by SPÖ and ÖVP each with 5 minutes, so that a total speaking time of 25 minutes for the objection debate results. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9549	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have raised objections to the agenda to the fact that the report by the Financial Committee on the Stenographic Protocol of the parliamentary survey on "The distribution and performance of justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness – in short: “Transfer account” – to be placed on the agenda. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== This issue was discussed in the Financial Committee on March and decided unanimously that it should be dealt with in the plenary session. To date, however, it has not been put on the agenda, and we therefore demand that FPÖ be debated here today. In accordance with § 13 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to ensure that negotiations are conducted as immediately as possible. So there is a shortage in that regard. This is all the more incomprehensible when on today's agenda there are no proposals for legislation, in which there are substantial rules to deal with the crisis that actually exists. The only legislative proposal of relevance is the Gambling Law Novelle. It has also been negotiated for more than two years, with no particularly significant result. However, I already have to contradict Mr Pilz, who has qualified this novelle here in the same way. At least in this law, there has been clear consideration in the trend of player protection and also of the prevention of gambling. Nor are we happy with all the points, but there are still advantages that are now being introduced, such as the access control at the casinos, which is a significant improvement. But there are also a few weaknesses. One is that the transitional periods for those concessionaries who have already had unlimited concessions and whose concessions are now dissolved by the new law are too short because they involve people in the life and economic planning, and that is a problem. Another essential lack is that the Internet gambling is not regulated at all. Just remember that a household averages about €1 100 a year for gambling, and of which €370 – well over 30 percent – on the Internet. There is no regulation in this law at all! That very area, which allows the majority of wild growth, has not experienced any legal regulations at all, and we have therefore worked to ensure that, at least in a committee statement, all parties agree that a regulation has to be adopted in this legislative period. – That's to say in the gambling law. But back to my objections to the agenda. . Today we are in a situation where the budget is crucial as to how it should continue. However, the government does not report at all what savings measures are planned. We are making 13 billion € of new debt this year and have already reached a level where we only have to spend half of the wage and income tax on interest payments of the state. That is, today, 16th. June, we pay our wage and income tax purely for the interest to be used for the debt – and not even for repayments! And in such a state not everything that could contribute to improving this situation is grossly negligent. That is why it would have been useful to discuss the so-called transfer account here today. The argument of the SPÖ that the envy society that could be propagated here is very strange, especially since the SPÖ always has a lot to say on this subject. That is how we have just experienced again, with how much enthusiasm the SPÖ demanded that the incomes be disclosed. The envy between the sexes is being aroused. Well, that's very poor, I have to say. The transfer account would in principle be a reasonable idea, because it could finally reveal all the shortcomings of the transfer system, and it could also improve the reliability of the transfer. We should therefore necessarily discuss this. It would therefore be useful to put this issue on the agenda today. I can only appeal to the government parties who do not move in this respect at all and want to say nothing at all about it and tell them that it is not paying off to do nothing in this area only for tactical reasons until the autumn elections, not to express themselves, not to make a determination, because this will only delay the solution of the problems. Especially in an economic situation such as the present one, the problems are only increased and thus the situation worsened. By the way, it is already, as one has seen time and again, so that this is also punished by the voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9612	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9633	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Right at the beginning, so that there is no misunderstanding: It is not a task of a single party – and it rightly does not have the opportunity to prevent the National Council from adopting a law. If four parties consider that there is a bad gambling law here, they will do the same. We from the opposition can only one thing: to ensure that, in addition to the perpetrators, the victims of the gambling are finally heard. We can ensure that there is a proper and serious procedure. So far, there has been no such procedure. We have maintained that the Financial Committee is once again concerned with this. But the government parties, the Freedom Party and the BZÖ expressed the opinion not to invite experts, not to invite victim representatives, not to invite any representatives of the criminal police who could report that more than half of the young prisoners are in prison due to gambling, automatic gambling, and that most of the procurement crime already has to do with the slot game. The fulfilment of this claim has been refused. Now we're calling on you one last time: As a member of the National Council, think of 160 000 addictive people in Austria, 240 000 acutely endangered and of their families, of youth protection, of family protection, of protection of socially weak people, of the protection of totally innocent people, of the victims of procurement crime, whether theft or theft, whether it be robbery, become, of security, a law that puts people's interests over the interests of organized gambling! That is the crucial point on which this is about. Why do we say that this law has to be improved urgently? – Because we still have dangerous, illegal gambling in billions in Austria, which is characterized by the fact that not the legal ceiling of 50 cents per game is played, but illegally 10 € per machine game. And now, at the call of two heads of state, SPÖ and ÖVP – those of Vienna and those of Lower Austria who have only one interest: to get as much money from the addicts for their countries and for their parties, SPÖ Vienna and ÖVP Lower Austria – go here and say: Yes, if these companies want to do that, then we legalize all that is illegal, then we write into the law: 10 € maximum bet, one game per second and zero player protection, and whoever manages to enter an automatic casino, may play unlimited! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Zero player protection is not right!]] Do you know what that means? – 36 000 € Use per hour, 72 000 € Use in two hours. And then the large legally defined cooling phase: A minute the machine is shut down, while Novomatic provides an alcoholic drink for free. And while the player makes the first swallow, it goes on again about the next 72 000 €. Ladies and gentlemen, for the interests of the gambling industry and two national parties, buy that in the future completely legal entire families will be ruined within a few hours! We told you in the Financial Committee: If we create at least a minimum of player protection, we introduce a player card that applies throughout Austria, where there is a photo of it and where the machines switch off after two hours throughout Austria, where this cannot be avoided! The representative of the Federal Government told us: This is not because we have three needy casinos, in Salzburg, Gastein and the Kleine Walsertal, which, in order to survive, need gambling on machines around the clock! ÖVP tells us that a deficient casino must not be locked. And that's why there must be no player protection?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, where is the responsibility of Members?- Oh, my God! Where does your personal responsibility to families, to young people, to possible victims of crime remain?- Oh, my God! That's why we appeal to you: Let's still use the time until July! Let us listen to the representatives from the Criminal Police to the victim organizations! Let's see that we bring family protection, youth protection, player protection and player protection into this law! Let us go back to the Financial Committee and finally try to put people's interests on the interests of mafia-like organizations such as Novomatic! The gambling mafia cannot buy laws of the Austrian National Council. They are committed to the people of this Republic – and not to Mafia organisations such as Novomatic! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9698	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a little prejudicial to the content debate on gambling law, and I can say: Of course, especially in sensitive materials, one must pay very close attention to protecting possible victims, including sick people, but I believe that this has at least been tried by this law. Mr Pilz, I agree with you that addiction and addiction are something that politics must deal with, but that must not be limited to gambling. I would like from your group the same Elan, the same offensive when it comes to fighting drug addiction and ensuring that people who are ruining the future of our youth are really taken out of traffic. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for today's agenda to be supplemented by the report of the Financial Committee on the Stenographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on "The distribution and performance of justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness’. The Austrian People's Party has already brought this into the discussion. Unfortunately, when we made this reasonable request by request, you did not vote in favour. So you're voting against your own initiatives. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, Scheibner!]] I do not, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of this, but we from the BZÖ have no majority yet here and can only make reasonable requests and hope that sometime you will feel that this is important and correct. To achieve transparency in the transfer services – at least 200 from the federal to the local level – would be a proper and meaningful measure. I do not understand why we have to wait in this measure for the introduction of the minimum guarantee, because the transfer account is also important without minimum security and would be important. This, in turn, is just a delay in measures that you seem unable to agree on within coalition. And that is also the problem: the lack of agreement within the coalition! One thing, however, has been agreed: that necessary reforms and measures to deal with the financial crisis are not now being discussed and are therefore not decided, because there are still two important events that seem to be far more important to the two coalition parties than the future of this country, namely the country election in Styria and the country election in Vienna. ==References== October, I hear, two days after the country election in Vienna, the Federal Government will go to the public with its package of measures to deal with the financial crisis. Many months you leave until you are ready to make Austria fit again, especially to strengthen the purchasing power and ensure the economy accordingly. We already hear from business researchers that precisely this uncertainty has a negative effect. No one knows what will happen to the population. On the basis of the tax increase discussions, we can only fear that you will get properly into the taxpayers' pocket. We must note that there is no willingness to save where it would be possible: in the administration, in the bureaucracy, in the countries and in the municipalities, where the question would be clarified, which could contribute to the consolidation of the budget. Unfortunately, on the city day, we had to hear again that nothing is being saved, but that on the contrary, €1.5 billion more is required. That is exactly the important points we should be talking about now! [[Abg. Rädler: What should the communities contribute?]] – Mr Commissioner, you are asking here: What are the communities to contribute?- Oh, my God! – They have also contributed to the current situation, especially as a result of the speculation losses in recent years! Let us talk about whether we could not save something in the administration! [[Prolonged condolences with BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the concretes. They ask: What do you want us to save? What do you want the chambers to save? What are the countries to save? What are the communities to save? What do you want the federal government to save? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Pensions of the national staff, the municipal staff, these are things where you can save. But what you know is how to raise taxes! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You do not know how it is in the churches!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to participate in this, and the population will be making a break on it! We now need a government – and Parliament would be ready to do so – with which we can take the right measures together in the crisis. It is not enough to call in here and believe in the need to defend supposedly well-acquired rights, but it must be said, at one time, openly and honestly, what the tasks of a modern state are, and the fulfilment of these tasks must be ensured, efficiently and sparingly. It can't be that you first think about how to shrink the economy, how to scrape the taxpayer, but just these sacred cows that have caused billions of deficits in the past are to be slaughtered.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9809	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9841	Just once for information for those who do not know: An objection debate is a debate on the succession of an agenda or whether or not one has something on the agenda as a discussion and decision-making item. And whether this is the first, second or third item on the agenda is an issue, there is nothing to say about whether it is being decided or not. It is also not a string according to the importance, but the order can also have other reasons. It was sent in advance once. The second is: I personally also believe that the minimum level of protection used to combat poverty, which is particularly necessary in times of financial and economic crisis, as is now the case, is not necessarily related to the transparency database. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Karin Hakl]] [[Abg. Bucher: But you do not believe that yourself, Mr. Colleague!]] But, of course, the transparency database also has, I say, its good, because in times when we think about taking measures to use the tax money even more efficiently, to carry out any savings, to achieve new revenue socially fair, but also to act socially, transparency is necessary. It is already very important and very interesting, for example, as regards economic promotions, whether there are multiple promotions, whether there are promotions in the economic, agricultural or other areas, not only at federal level, but also at national or local level. That's what you should look at. No one has to feel threatened, because that does not mean that there must automatically be any strong cuts. It is about the efficient use of resources. And that is of great importance in this respect, I believe. We have discussed and decided here in this House the Federal Financial Framework. This is already a clear indication of the direction in which the measures will have to be taken in the autumn. It is also a signal that we should be very precise and very careful to deal with these measures – it should not be broken down, but it should continue to promote employment and growth, which is absolutely crucial. That is why it will be in autumn – but this is the normal, decided plan; I have not correctly understood the individual statements where it has been said: only in autumn, as Mr Scheibner said earlier, will I give the speech of the Minister of Finance, I think, at the end of October. We then have sufficient time to discuss the concrete implementation of the Financial Framework Decision in relation to the Government's departments and to discuss it in concrete terms. All parties can then assess whether this will continue to guarantee economic development, growth development, job security, security of social systems, health care. The whole thing is combined with the fact that, of course, there are savings where it is socially fair, at the same time efficient and productive. This in combination with the revenue side. We have already discussed tax measures, which deal with the fact that those who withdraw from tax responsibility finally have to pay taxes: Drying of tax havens, measures against tax relief and tax evasion. But at the same time – keywords: Transaction tax, bank tax, foundation tax – the participation of the super-richs, which I believe to be making too few contributions – so that not only SMEs are asked to cash out – are guaranteed. Then it is fair, and I believe that is the objective of the debate and of the decisions we will have to take in autumn. A small note to the gambling law: The decision-making has really been postponed several times. This gambling law has been thoroughly discussed, a wealth of additional ideas and changes have been introduced after the government template came into the house, and the law has found a four-party majority in my knowledge in the committee; some amendments have even been adopted with a five-party majority. It is therefore a very thorough law, in which, of course, the protection of victims was a very crucial point. That is why, I believe, it is justified that the gambling law is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9893	Mr Grillitsch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9915	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not quite understand that we are now discussing the agenda for an hour. [[Call the BZÖ: Half an hour!]] I believe that the people deserved to work together to find solutions and to discuss together those reports that are drawn up in the committees and brought to the attention of the Assembly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can still understand when the opposition tries to present its position here with theater donors, but, Mr Scheibner, it has actually happened much more than you said: We have here in this Parliament a Financial Framework Act, a Financial Framework Act by 2014, which now has the task of all departments to think about – not how to save with a dash on the people concerned, on the citizens – how to save efficiently and intelligently in the administration, bureaucracy and control. There will be a result in this case in autumn, and we will then discuss it here and bring it to the vote. I am curious if you will then also have the courage to agree to this result, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] An appeal to the opposition: It would be far more important to point out to people in times like this, in times of challenges, that we are all really serious about finding solutions, not adapting to the mayors who are out there daily in the “near fight” with the citizens who are doing great work and are being insulted here by lumpsum suspicions by you, Mr. Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner:... rather wait for the country elections!]] That's not all right! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The mayors are those who immediately, on the spot, stand for the people and try to find the best solutions. [[Abg. Grosz: Fohnsdorf!]] – Fohnsdorf is an exception, yes, we can discuss this too, but today is not the right time and not the right place for it. We must try to give people safety. The government is developing programmes in this respect, which we are discussing here, and it is also clear from a careful examination that the agenda is in order. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing security, public security, we are discussing the arms law. Is it not important to tell people what decisions we have made here? I think public security is important. We have a gambling law to decide, with more player protection, with more control, ending the wild growth of machines, more supervision, better sports promotion. Ladies and gentlemen, is this all nothing? This is a major improvement. I mean, that's a proper throw, and I'm glad that there's going to be this four-party decision today. On the subject of minimum security: There is a clear agreement by the Federal Government to bring the minimum guarantee together with the transparency database to the National Council and to introduce a Federal Law on Minimum Assurance. We from the agricultural sector were the first to publish their compensation payments on the Internet. It is important to show fair payment of benefits, to show social benefits and to try to achieve distribution justice. It is not enough to discuss just how to invent new taxes, asset tax, wealth tax, property tax, but to list payment payments efficiently and to create transparency and distribution justice. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we should also be discussing this today. I think the objections are unfounded, and that is why we will not join them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10010	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the amendments relating to supplementing the agenda by the report III-111/618 of the supplements: ‘Authorisation and performance justice in Austria: Transparency and fairness’. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to take these objections into account, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the objections concerning the decommissioning of Agenda items 7 and 8 on gambling law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of these objections to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10061	It is proposed that the debate on points 4 to 6 and 7 and 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10082	Members of Parliament Dr. Winter, ladies and gentlemen, asked for urgent consideration of the written question, which had been put before the entry into the agenda, of Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning ‘Stilling in Social Policy’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10110	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. A day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 98 minutes, FPÖ 88 minutes, Green 77 minutes and BZÖ 74 minutes. With regard to TV direct transmission until 13.00, the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: a round of speakers with 6 minutes each, a member of the government of the ÖVP with 10 minutes and then a round of speakers with 3 minutes each. Before the beginning of the final round, after consultation with the club presidents, the President-in-Office shall distribute the remaining speaking time for the five political groups in such a way that all political groups will be able to speak evenly during the television season. Any actual corrections will only be made after the television period. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 to limit the speaking time of each Member without club membership to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:53:33]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Federal Government's Report on Internal Security in Austria (2008 Security Report) (III-99/760 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10167	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. Agreed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10194	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome both ladies very warmly! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the summer flu, I did not want to miss out on participating in this debate today, and I shoulder my responsibility, although I should be in bed to get well. But the discussion on this issue cannot be missed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is really “great” that we today, on 16 May. In June 2010, the Security Report of the year 2008 was debated over half a year after it went to the National Council at the end of November 2009. This also shows that the Minister of the Interior does not take the safety report seriously at all, as one can leave it for so long. You seem to want to see a chair of criminal history here, hold a criminal-historical seminar, because what is happening there, namely, with such a delay in debate this report, is really a farce. At the same time, however, we receive cheer reports from the Ministry of the Interior about the security situation in Austria. We are flooded with cheering news about how great the security situation in Austria is, according to the motto that Austria is supposedly one of the safest countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, not only that this does not correspond to reality, it also does not correspond to the subjective sense of security of the population, but also to the objective sense of security. If you offer such representations to the public, you have to feel like it is just planted – with the entry records that we have to experience in Austria today; in Vienna it is 550 apartment breaks per week. Every Austrian really laughs in view of your presentation on security in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the first quarter of 2010, we had 1,466 crimes a day, 61 crimes per hour and one crime per minute. You just can't discuss that away, Mrs. Interior Minister! Your argument is always that Austria is so sure, but, as I said, the figures are against it! It also speaks against people's feelings. It is not the bad mood of the Austrians who express themselves when they sometimes feel uncertain about moving on the streets of Austria, Vienna in the evening hours. It is not a loose feeling of the population that one is afraid that the car will be stolen or broken up or that the apartment or the house will be cleared out, but everyone has already experienced it personally, must experience it in his own body or in his environment, in the family or in the circle of friends several times, that the crime explodes exorbitantly. Let's see the figures, the facts: Throughout the federal territory we had 162 561 cases of theft, 70 059 of which alone in Vienna. The reconnaissance rate was 15.6 percent in Austria – this is pathetic! – and in Vienna we had one Enlightenment rate of only 9.3 percent. These are pitiful figures, in which today basically every Gauner and every criminal knows that he can work here for ten years without being caught. After ten or eleven years, when you're lucky, you catch him, and then he comes to Leoben's Super-Luxus-Wellness-Hafenanstalt and has all the advantages of this world there. That's not a success. Obviously, you are not able to fight enough crime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In Austria you, Mrs. Innenminister, seem to be more concerned about not moving asylum frauds such as the Zogaj family – you have clearly failed. 6 000 asylum abusers in Austria have not been postponed since 2006. That's your failure, Mrs. Interior Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Fortunately, after the Constitutional Court has given right to the freedom of movement, namely that it should have been postponed for a long time and that it is not possible for the Austrian population to be danced so on the nose, give They also have good advice and advice, namely that dear Arizona, part of the Zogaj family, would have the opportunity to marry. There you give the public tip of a shine. Yes, please, where do we live when a Minister of the Interior acts and acts so irresponsibly? That really shows a lot! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tadler.]] We live in a rule of law, and there is a right to be lived. And anyone who comes to Austria illegally, who gives false information and uses asylum abuse has not behaved properly and therefore does not have to stay in that country. There is a family togetherness at home in Kosovo and the overall responsibility for the family is to be seen, the father and mother have responsibility for their children who have abused them here. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And there it is allowed to be danced around on the nose. There the Greens would prefer the Zogaj family to give honorary citizenship. Then the government parties go here and fail in all these areas. I understand why the Austrians are increasingly angry about this federal government and the Red and Blacks are running away in crowds.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10292	Mr Kößl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10313	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister for the Interior! Mrs Federal Minister for Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That was a grippal speech by Mr Strache. He's blind on an eye. He has shown many things where we know that we have challenges that must also be dealt with, but he has not shown that since 2004, we have been reducing the number of crimes by 70 000 on the basis of very good police work and, of course, on the basis of a very good safety work done by our current Minister of State and the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing, as I mean, can really be criticised: that we are today, 16th. June 2010, the 2008 Security Report. But we also know why this discussion is so late. We know that this is not a matter of the Ministry of the Interior alone, but also of the Ministry of Justice. and the Ministry of Justice is again dependent on the data coming from the Central Statistical Office. That's why this delay. It would also be better if we could discuss the security report much earlier. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But the fact is that we are one of the safest countries in the world, Mr. Strache. The fact is that the security report has given us the proof of very good police work on the agenda. And we can be proud of this work done by the police, by police officers and police everywhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that the safety of Austria is in good hands with Mrs Federal Minister Fekter. That's certainly a fact. I believe that we must also thank all those who have prepared this safety report. He's got 600 pages. If you have really studied this safety report, you can see objectively what achievements have actually been done, how informative this safety report is, what trends and developments can be read here, what analyses have been performed and what challenges we face. And we gave an answer to these challenges in 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. And we can be proud of the development that actually exists in the security field. A few figures on the 2008 report: Compared to 2007, a reduction in the number of criminal cases by 22 000 is to be observed, despite the European Football Championship, where 560 arrests and 1 700 ads were added. So an impressive record of what has been done in the field of security in Austria. 27 000 police officers were in use here, 1 100 additional foreign colleagues helped. And we can really be proud of the achievements that have been done here. Great successes were achieved in 2009 and 2010. Thus, from Austria a large Georgian intruder band was made fixed, a Moldovan intruder band was smashed, a Serbian intruder band was smashed. These were on the road across Europe and have therefore also acted in Austria. Furthermore, a red light mafia in Vienna has been destroyed for years, and its members have been arrested. So a great achievement that has been delivered there. Let's not talk about uncertainty, not that the subjective sense of security would not be given! I can only say one thing: Great work has been done by the police. And Austria is one of the safest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10379	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10401	Mr President. High house! Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors at the top of the gallery! Worse enough that we are discussing the 2008 Security Report today. A lot has already been said about this. As citizens of this country, we all demand a life in security. As a victim of a never-informed housing collapse, I can confirm to you that this need and desire are, of course, justified. Now let us look at how it is about the safety of those children and young people who have been going to school for years, who are well rooted and well integrated here, whose parents have some or both of them no valid right of residence. We all have been talking very strongly about the fate and the future of such a family for three days. We are talking about the future of two minor children, nine and eleven years old, who have spent most of their lives in our country, who go to school here, perfectly speak German, in which school is successful. We are talking about a woman and mother who have almost already been broken, who wants nothing more than finally to have peace and see the future of their children in order and well-regulated. We're talking about a girl who's just 18 years old, about a young woman who's perfectly integrated here. And again and again we are all talking about the fact that the future of this family, which has been smashed and now only more of four people, should actually lead to the uncertainty. It is now often said in recent days that decisions of the Constitutional Court should be taken. - Yes, we Greens see it the same way. The findings of the Constitutional Court should be taken into account. If the government parties and other political groups in this House are talking about it, however, we ask ourselves, why does one not think that since 2001, there has been a knowledge of the Constitutional Court for nine years that says that there are bilingual local boards in Carinthia too. [[Call:Sind eh there]] Where the implementation of this decision by the Constitutional Court, which obviously also needs to be implemented, is concerned, the Government's commitment to implement it is equal to zero. It is clear that two measures are being measured. When it comes to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's findings, which the Federal Government and two other political groups are obviously not accepted in this House, the implementation is simply and decisively refrained from being implemented, then consensus conferences are convened and it is good to see the Austrian State Treaty being trampled on for nine years, but does not do anything. The government parties say that right must remain right. It is also our job to point out that justice is being done. The right is made by human beings, made by politicians and politicians. Right is not God willing. And it is cowardly to make the strictest laws, to intensify them every year even further, thus preventing all legal solutions for people who have taken root here, which are best integrated here. When you get to that gate and then you go behind the laws and say that we have to implement the laws, right must remain right, then, I have to say, it is cowardly to simply protect laws in order to allow inhumanity to operate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Call the anarchy! No problem, let's do it for a second!]] Finally, I would like to point out that: There is no additional job in our country when these four people are moved off. There will be no more wages or pension for any Austrians if this family is sent back to the unknown. On the contrary. Speaking of integration in a shrinking and ageing society, on the one hand, of the best integrated children and young people who have grown up here who want to make their contribution to this country in order to get rid of any price, that is not just an integration policy, it is not just an inhumane policy, but it is simply an imperceptible, very honourable ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As a political person, let us not look at the future of this family and similar families who have been living here for years – these four people have not been blamed, they have no prep sentences, they have not been condemned, nothing, they are innocent citizens – they are destroyed! [[Abg. Bitch: Illegal right-winger!]] These are our children, too. These are our young people. The Zogajs belong to us. I want you to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10488	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10510	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! An important report, not a question. I will allow myself then to address the question of treatment and some content. But right at the beginning: Both personally and above all on behalf of my group, I would like to thank my colleagues from the executive both in the Federal Ministry of the Interior and in the Federal Ministry of Justice, because the service they often provide using their lives is a more difficult one. [[It was in favour of SPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there should be no pearl from the crown if we say this in all public and in all clarity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have been standing here as an opposition politician and have criticized that we are discussing security reports very late. Everyone knows that this security report is to be reimbursed annually under the Security Police Act and consists of a part prepared by the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs and a part of it that is prepared by the Federal Ministry of Justice. This Federal Government has stated in its labour agreement that these two basic statistics are brought together, namely technically, scientifically. This is a criminal and criminal statistics. We all know that. It is true that the part of the Federal Ministry of the Interior has been in for a very long time. But if we take our jointly adopted laws seriously, ladies and gentlemen, and I would urgently invite you to do so, we also know that this safety report consists of two parts. You can believe I am not happy to discuss the 2008 Security Report in June 2010. But after years we have undertaken to merge these two parts. I hope that, ladies and gentlemen, it is a lot of work, not a question, that we will be able to discuss this safety report in good time. But I would draw attention to the fact that the recasting of this report, particularly the part of the Ministry of Justice, will also cost something. As every debate that is being held here calls for everything on the one hand and the next speakers of the same political groups who call for the cost to go no more, I invite them to be more sensitive in this area so that we can really put this important part into practice. Some remarks on the content: I think it's out of the question. Austria is the safest country we should be happy about – this will be confirmed by everyone who talks, no matter where on this planet, – although every single crime is too much is to express this clearly. But it is often drawn a picture where you could get the impression that you would be somewhere, just not in our beautiful home. I think all of us should always be involved in our reflections: This area of politics is not suitable to incite and play with fears, ladies and gentlemen. At least this important work in this area should be kept out of day-to-day policy and should try to solve these central concerns of objective security, but also subjective security together in the interests of the entire population. Because the Austrians deserved that we take this issue seriously and together lead to a solution. Let me address another point that is very important to me personally. Security is an all-embracing concept. As important as the part of classical security is and as necessary it must be clear to us that a good social policy is also very important for classical security policy. Our soldiers, the colleagues of the Federal Government, also make a contribution to the fact that, if you want to do so, certain things do not appear at home in the mother country. That is why it is so important to see security as a whole, and I believe that we are on a good path. We have, as I mean, recognized where to go, but we accompany everyday topics from the planning points to the individual budget positions. I also invite all of us to resolve all these questions in the interests of our people, in the interests of the security of our beloved Republic. I think that is an important question where polemics is not appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10577	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10598	Mr President. Ladies ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl, I am telling you what the objective and subjective sense of security of people is currently – according to the latest survey by the IMAS Institute – is: Every second Austrian is now either directly or indirectly affected by a crime in that country, for the most part by burglary theft, car theft and property crimes. This is objective and subjective, and it cannot be discussed away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] We cannot go there, Mrs Minister, and today in Parliament we are discussing the 2008 safety report, which is ridiculous, because you are blaming up to the bones. We have already criticized this in committee. Mr. Kößl's already sitting there. Just a year ago, in April 2009, you, Mrs Minister – and I have been involved in the parliamentary protocol – said that, by the way, Mr Kößl, but more important to me are your quotes – have announced in Parliament that the 2008 Security Report is already well under way and that the documents will be completed by the summer. You told Parliament a year ago that we would receive the 2008 safety report by summer. The only thing you apologise for is that you didn't say until the summer of which year. We have summer now, but a year later. This is actually the cynicism you are spreading here, Mrs. Minister. In the Committee you have cleaned yourself, very easily. Today it may not be that easy because the Minister of Justice is sitting next to you. In the Committee you said: We're done! Debt is the Minister of Justice, it's not finished! [[Abg. That is the untruth!]] Now you're both sitting there. And I would probably ask you here, on behalf of all the Members, to receive the safety reports immediately after the year has ended, Mrs Minister, so that we can discuss them at the moment. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] Mrs Minister, nothing has changed! I emphasize: Nothing's changed! You're gonna make yourself up now and you're gonna say, Crime has gone down! [[Abg. Kößl: That's right!]] Here a few percent less, there a few percent less! The education rate may have increased by 1 percent! Wonderful! – Only, Mrs Minister: [[Abg. That's right!]] The feeling of the people – and there the colleagues from the FPÖ, who criticize this, are perfectly right – is quite different. You know what I notice: Whenever you create yourself and announce any declines in crime figures in the statistics, it is suddenly a completely new method of statistics that is applied there! And now, in 2010, the Ministry of the Interior has changed again and again published a new calculation, a new modality of crime statistics. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Go, go!]] That's right in the back and in the front, Mrs. Minister! These figures are beautiful, and we are no longer aware of them. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] We know we have a huge crime! In 2008 we had 572 695 committed criminal offences, in 2009 again: 591,000. Now you're going to say it's all gone down, we might only have more than 500 000 this year. – Do you know how much that is? Do you know how many people are affected by this crime? By the way, the education rate – if we are already talking about 2008 – has fallen! [[Abg. Kößl: 2009! 2009, my dear colleague!]] Today we discuss your 2008 old report: She went down and didn't go up. It's very brutal in Vienna. In Vienna it is most brutal about crime: We still have 70 burglaries a day! We have 80 crimes per hour! This is what the crime statistics for Vienna look like. They only need to calculate the averages of crime and crime in this city. It's very brutal. Nothing changes at all! That's not what your SOKO East has changed, nor your questioning of criminal offenders, which you've left us here for the last time, which is a total nonsense. Nothing has changed at all. You have not solved the core problem. And there is only one answer to this crime of the invading East Bands, the invading theft, the car theft, and that is finally to close, control and see that no more criminals are coming into the country, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Killer: Close the borders, gell?]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Köhschl]] But we will discuss this later on in our proposal. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Let me also say two sentences on the current Causa Zogaj: We are experiencing the failure of government policy in foreign law and asylum policy, because this is actually the result of these eight-year-old Causa, these 110 requests, which have been rejected, Mrs Minister. - Or 112. Wicked, 110 or 112. [[Abg. You're crazy!]] [[Call:112]] That doesn't make the herb fat either. But what you're doing is that you've made this possible again when you change asylum law and foreign law! In other words, you did not end with the impotence of the follow-up proposals, which should not be made at all, but it is still possible to make fifty follow-up requests. [[Abg. That's not true!]] [[Abg. That's not true!]] And this is the chaos in your asylum and foreign policy, Mrs. Minister! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] There's nothing for Mrs. Zogaj, you're to blame! You're to blame! And there's someone else's fault – that's what I said at this point –: This is this left-wing consultancy and lawyer industry that has formed around this family Zogaj. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] These advisers and lawyers, who have been knowingly misadvised by this family from the beginning, bear the responsibility – for everyone knew that there is no chance of a right of residence because of the illegality that exists. This has been known by every advisor, every lawyer, every lawyer from the house, and yet this family has been driven to this procedure, only so that one can lead a political campaign in the sense of the Greens. [[Abg. Street: Because it pays the taxpayers!]] That's the truth! And they abused this family, and no one else at all! And they are responsible! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. May. Korun: And what about the town boards?]] And I say something to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, because you are so often talking about humanity and always quote humanity: I expect you to look out here again and ask for humanity towards those families, children and women who fall victim to false, illegal asylum seekers in this country! I also expect humanity from you! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Honey: That's embarrassing what you're doing! It's so embarrassing! -... no shame limit!]] Any second asylum seekers in that country will become criminal. You don't think so! And that's why I'd say: Genuine yourself for this policy that you are showing here!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10898	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10920	Mr President. Dear colleague Minister of Justice Claudia Bandion-Ortner! High house! Values Watchers in front of the TV screens and valued guests in the gallery! [[Deputies Dr. Van der Bellen, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek and Mag. Korun holds a transparency with the title “Arigona should stay – www.gruene.at/arigona” in height.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Go, such a little transparency? They're getting smaller! That's like your election results!]] Because of the wrong media coverage, allow me to say from this point of view that
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10953	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: I believe that your statement has been taken note of and that is why we can give it away again. It doesn't belong to the style. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, I don't think it's yet taken note!]] Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10998	High house! I would like to make it quite clear from this point of view that the wrong media coverage is: I don't give any advice not to shine about a legal entry! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm not the legal counsel of the Zogaj family either. I was only asked yesterday before the Council of Ministers by the media what legal entry options there are, and I then listed all the facts, all the legal entry possibilities. On the question of the journalist: Yes and what do you recommend to the Zogaj family now?, I answered: I'm not guessing anything because I'm not the legal advice of the family. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah, you're the marriage counsel? The marriage mediator!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Mrs. Minister, Kuppelei is a criminal offence!]] It is legally represented, and there are also supporters who can give you the appropriate advice. I'm not guessing anything! – Unfortunately, all this has been pushed away from the media, and only the marriage remains. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you already have a groom?]] [[Abg. Grosz: Commercial Kuppelei... Public prosecutor!]] I would therefore like to make it clear here again: I don't give any tips on legal entry and even not tips on a shine! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Commercial dolls! – With us in the Styria you say “containment”!]] [[Abg. Street: Mafia-Paragraph! You should have the Mafia paragraph...!]] Now on the subject of security in Austria. – As a security minister, I am particularly pleased that Austria has been elected the safest EU country in the study “Global Peace Index 2010”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are the most peaceful and secure EU Member State, and worldwide, among 149 countries, we have fourth place. This is particularly important in that all our neighbouring countries do not achieve such values. [[Abg. Street: Switzerland? Switzerland is clearly ahead of us!]] Germany, for example, is on 16. Place, Italy at 49. Job. So: Austria as the most peaceful, safe country – with the least violent crimes, with the lowest murder rate, with a stable inner environment, with no conflicts with our neighbours and with enormous legal certainty. [[Abg. May. Stefan: “Better than Italy!” “Have we ever been better in safety than Italy?”]] High House, we should be pleased that the situation in our beautiful country is so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are currently the fourth most secure country in the world. I have the vision of making Austria the safest country in the world! One step has come closer to this. After all, we improved our position on the previous year. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] We can also show the results of the study with very specific figures. I would therefore not like to limit myself to the 2008 safety report, ladies and gentlemen, but to mention the current figures: Overall, crime decreased by 7.46 percent in the first quarter of 2010. That's 10 639 crimes less. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: From year to year it will be less!]] We are particularly concerned with all those crimes, where the population is very irritated, where the sense of security is severely affected – when it comes to house collapses, then I understand that this is annoying people in their sense of security – focusing over the last one and a half years, focusing on burglary. Home break-ins, apartment break-ins, car thefts: This affects people when something like this happens to them or happens to them in their environment. And we can also show great success there. For example, the collapses in homes and single-family homes fell by 27.4 percent. That is significant, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not a little bit, but it is also recognized by looking at the beams in statistics, just as far as the situation in Vienna is concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who faked them, the statistics?]] Mr Westenthaler, take note of the facts! 1 697 housing breakdowns less than in the same period of the previous year! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This is a success – as I must admit: Of course, every house break is too much. And that is why we will not let go, so we will continue our strategies consistently. The decline in car theft is even more evident. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in the first months of 2009 more than 2,000 vehicles were stolen and in the same period of this year it was 1 073 less! [[Abg. Weinzinger: Because the others have been stolen earlier!]] This is a decrease of 53.3 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because the most beautiful ones are already gone! The most beautiful cars have already been stolen!]] And, Mr Westenthaler, we have a very large return rate. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: A high return rate of burglars!]] We can return more than 60 percent of the stolen car to the owners – despite open borders, because we have a good police cooperation with our neighbouring countries, because we have our own special commission. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who believes...!]] Thefts in motor vehicles also decreased by 30.2 percent. That is to say, we recognize the really significant decline in the crime scene, that our strategy is correct and that, above all, I would like to do this from here, thanks to the police who do excellent work in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to the work of police officers, it is also important to develop very clear strategies in the face of the phenomena that confront us in crime and that there are also new facets. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When do we actually get the 2009 Security Report?]] I can still remember how I was shocked because we founded the Special Commission on the East, as was smeared about here in the House. Mr. Westenthaler, with the special commission East, has for the first time been a cooperation of three federal states – from Lower Austria, Vienna and Burgenland – quite specifically addressed. [[Abg. May. Korun: That's a bit late, isn't it?]] With this special commission we have been able to develop a master plan. We have strengthened the work of crime, we have also put in place structural investigations quite specifically, i.e. the strategies that the Federal Criminal Office is developing most modernly. That is why we are really highly valued by foreign countries for what we have put up here, so that we can break down the phenomena of the transitory intruders, the foreign intruders, the structures, the mafia structures. It's my concern not only to catch the little car thief, but I want the hackers behind it, I want the sponsors behind it, I want to fight organized crime – and not just lock up single little thieves. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] The modern strategies of the Federal Criminal Office continue to be applied to active police work. They lead to success. Because that's my job: To make security so that the Austrians can feel safe and the social peace in this country is preserved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11333	For the next full group round, about four and a half minutes are available per speech. I'm going to ring in shortly after the end of 4 minutes. This will allow for a detailed conclusion. Mr Vilimsky has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11358	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies at the ministerial bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, the Minister and also Mr Pendl, to give a quote from Vienna along the way, a quote from Karl Kraus: The Wiener does not live in comparison. – And he's right with it: 570 000 crimes every year, 1.1 crimes every minute in Austria, this is an unbearable high level of crime! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] And I do not allow it, Mrs Minister, that you are knocking on your shoulder, that you rejoice and explain how great security policy is in Austria! She's great! And there is also a background that explains why in recent years the security policy has developed so badly. For those who have read the Security Report: It even says why security policy has done such massive damage. “A non-insignificant influence” – and I quote the security report of Mrs. Minister – “is about the mobility of crime and the associated “activities” that are caused by the role of Austria as a tourist and transit country and by the opening of the eastern borders.” – And then it is about illegal migration, then it is about tractors. – “This increase is partly linked to the extension of Schengen borders.” [[Abg. Kößl: From 2004 to 2008 around 70,000 crimes less!]] That, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you always ignore. And whenever we make a request to introduce border controls, you are the ones who reject it in the interests of the economy and industry, because the open borders want to be at the expense of the security interests of the Austrians. And that's a bad thing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will reject this safety report, first of all for the reason that it comes too late – we have discussed it. [[Abg. Kößl: Go! Go, stop!]] Second: Because the methodology of statistical recording is still unclear and there is the rumor that, for example, in the case of a serial theft of 20 broken cars in a garage that is considered a serial crime, and if the perpetrator should be caught by chance, then it is considered to be 20 enlightened crimes. [[Abg. That's not true!]] That's where it hacks in the back and in the front. And as long as there is no real clarity as to how you create your statistics and at any time change these statistics – as you have now changed to quarterly statistics – we will not agree either. There is transparency, that belongs to honesty, and it is not given in the statistical collection of your reporting system! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is important for a good security policy to be behind the police and to do their work accordingly. I agree with you, too. Look at the police inspections there, for example in my political home district, in Mariahilfe, Kopernikusgasse, where there is a police inspection! That's where you're looking! The police themselves had to renovate there because there was no money for it. The police go somewhere in the morning to the carnivores and buy two sausages – and in the arrest cells you can choose between five menus that are delivered free of charge! Is that the signal to show that we, politics, are behind our executives? – I say: No, no, no, I say: The police need a better salary, the police must be sure that politics and also the Interior Minister are behind her! However, this has been given to an entirely inadequate extent at the moment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Further example: We discussed in the committee the digital display that would allow, as in many federal states of the Federal Republic of Germany, the police to “discover” administrative activity. We've heard about the ÖVP, we don't need that, there's already somewhere hidden on a virtual page on the Internet, and that's not assumed. – If you don’t apply it, it won’t be accepted either! Only: For example, this would be a way to make sure more police get on the street again. There is, unfortunately, a rejection of your side. Among all the security politicians in the country there is one who is particularly bad, and this is Mayor Häupl in Vienna. He has always rejected all the proposals we have made. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore say: If it succeeds in establishing a mayor's street in Vienna this autumn, this city will have a chance to be safe again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You of the ÖVP would be well advised not to hang on to the rock temple of the red mayor, but to ensure a non-socialistic security alliance in Vienna! Thank you. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11495	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11516	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I quite understand the strong emotionality of the FPÖ, because if you have already printed posters for the election struggles, and then the security report, which shows a really impressive positive balance, so not in your election campaign concept at all, I really understand the excitement. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I'd like to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer:... Fasching President!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Lei Lei!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What I don't understand, however, are the greens. If you find a Transparent here, Dr. Van der Bellen and Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, on which you can read: I'd like to ask you what is meant by this. [[Abg. Strache:... let's stay where she comes from!]] Do you mean that a judgment of the Constitutional Court should not be executed? [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Korun and oillingers.]] Is that the appeal: not to execute a judgment of the Constitutional Court? – This is not our position, I would like to tell you clearly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The safety report speaks a truly clear and impressive language. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: That's not a report, that's a...!]] If you look at total crime, you see, there is a decrease of 3.6 percent. If you look at the frequency of the crime in relation to the residential population, you notice that there is a decrease of 4 percent. There is no increase in the number of criminal proceedings in any federal state! If you look at the crime against foreign property, you can see that there is a minus of 4.1 percent. The intelligence rate has increased! If you look at the traffic safety figures, you can see that there is a 4.7 percent drop in accidents. The number of injured has decreased by 5.1 percent, the number of road fatalities has decreased, both in the reporting period and in today and last year. Today – which is still a lot, but nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, compared – we have 679 people who die in traffic. Think back to the end of the nineties: There we had around 1,400 to 1,500 deaths in road traffic every year! Today we are thanks to God because of a continuous decline in this area through better safety measures, by increased traffic controls and not even half. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Congratulations, Mrs Federal Minister, on this success! These figures can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say to the speeches by Mr Strache and Mr Westenthaler, this fear duo, which spreads fear and uncertainty here, I would like to contrast the contributions made by the Duo Fekter and Bandion-Ortner: a duo that gives security and spreads security. – That is the difference, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] And if the two gentlemen don’t believe me, maybe they believe the “Kronen Zeitung” of 13th century. June: “Compared with 149 states brought a top position. World ranking of safest countries: Austria in fourth place’. – I quote: “While violence is increasing in many other countries, Austria continues to be one of the most peaceful countries in the world.” [[Abg. New builder: Peaceful is not certain!]] “The Institute for Economic Affairs and Peace has been measuring the security of 149 countries for four years. Austria occupied 4th this year. Place in this comparison. Victor at the Global Peace Index... “This time became New Zealand, followed by Iceland” – we have thank God no volcano; also a security question – “and Japan. Austria is already in the fourth place in the world rankings.” [[call to the FPÖ.]] And if you compare only the European states, we are in second place. This is an impressive record – thank you very much, ladies!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11677	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11715	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, Mr Amon, for not adding, we owe it to the skilled Minister of the Interior that Austria has no volcano – it has just missed. Now to an important sentence of the Minister of the Interior, which I can only underline. You, Mrs. Fekter, have explained: I want to fight organized crime! – The most important company of organised crime in Austria today is Novomatic. Novomatic beats politicians and officials, Novomatic washes black money, and Novomatic systematically violates all important provisions of the gambling law. [[Abg. That's a shame!]] – I do not claim that, but the state criminal office of Lower Austria claims this in a comprehensive announcement to the public prosecutor's office, which since then has conducted a trial against two Novomatic Tarn companies. And now you want to go – and I really ask you, Mrs. Inner Minister, if that will help you – and say – I don't want to disturb your conversation: [[towards the government bank]] All that has been done by Novomatic illegal in Austria so far at the expense of playful people and their family members is now to be legalized; illegally more than 50 cents of use up to 10 € currently. You want to legalize this! They want to ensure the methods of organized gambling crime by law. Mrs Innenminister, you know the consequences. Their officials of the Vienna State Criminal Office have pointed out that procurement crime as a result of automatic gambling is already higher than the procurement crime resulting from drug addiction. Heroinsuch is bad enough, and I'm in favour of the police getting the opportunity to track the dealers there as hard as the dealers in the hard gambling area. Less robbery, less burglaries, less thefts by heroin addicts than by automatic addicts! More than half of the young people in Austrian penitentiaries are there due to automatic gambling. Mrs Bundesminister für Innens, please explain to this Parliament whether you believe that it is really in the interest of public security that this law, which is a law to promote procurement crime, is passed by a majority in the National Council, which does not protect the victims but represents the interests of the perpetrators. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a matter of security responsibility! I asked you in committee: Do you even know how many playful burglaries, thefts and so on? And you said: We don't have any records on this. - Then I asked you: Do you know at least how many criminals there are in your place? And you said: Since the police reform, we have not kept records of this. – You no longer even know how many criminals work in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Kößl: Do you even know what you're talking about?]] If you don't know, Minister of the Interior, if you don't even know how many criminals there are, how do you want to fight crime? – No, the Minister of the Interior, such ignorance and ignorance shows that you are talking a lot about public security and are doing little for public security and that you are not doing anything for the victims – nothing for those who can also become victims of procurement crime – and instead support the interests of irrantious gambling companies and organizations with mafia-like character in gambling. This is not worthy of an interior minister, it is not worthy of a minister of justice. And if you are pursuing well-integrated people in Austria instead of organized gambling crime, who have long been Austrians and here at home, who are missing only one, namely citizenship, Mrs. Interior Minister, then track the wrong people. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11783	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11804	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Federal Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Another word on Mr Vilimsky's request concerning mayor and security. It is now also clear to me why your clubman is stealing right in the gyms: to walk through the baths with the Zero Tolerance Baths in the summer, to be able to score there. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Finally, speak concretely!]] This will certainly not be crowned by success. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz:... other battle weight!]] For the discussion of the safety report. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can look at this from two sides. When dealing with the situation, the questions arise on the one hand: What happened? Where have there been increases, where are declines evident? What priorities have been crystallized? What events, such as the EURO, were decisive? and much more. On the other hand, we can question what the Ministry of the Interior has done with the data and knowledge. How was it responded? Is it possible to be a step ahead, or can the executive just rework? For me, therefore, the main questions are as follows: What can we derive from the findings of the report? And above all, the police, ladies and gentlemen, are at my heart, because I am still convinced that the Austrian executive is only able to prevent crime or, as important as it is, to clarify when the armor fits. Are the instruments suitable, therefore, to be able to solve crimes and crimes? More and more officials are being injured in the service, often in the context of conflicts in direct contact. For example, what basic legal requirements do we have to remember when it comes to protecting the executives better? – Here I am also thinking of cases where medical examinations are needed. How can we prevent these tragic use of weapons? – The difficult tension between fundamental and freedom rights and the need for the police to be able to do work is clear to me and I also need in-depth discussion. [[Abg. Mayerhofer:... Accept application... Control borders!]] But every company will realize that the most important capital for a good business is the employees, and then it must also set the course. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The 2008 Security Report gives us the opportunity to point this out, and your and our duty is to be there for the people. The tasks can only be fulfilled if the framework conditions are in place, and this means that one also operates with serious data. This survey, presented by Mr Westenthal, is not quite clear to me: With 8 million inhabitants and 570,000 crimes, how does it work that each second is directly affected by a crime? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that! Direct or indirect! Listen to me!]] It won't work like that. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: In an apartment where four people live, how do you do?]] Therefore: Mrs. Federal Minister, we are working together on this! - We're ready. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11907	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11928	Mr President. High house! Federal Ministers! 70 crimes in the hour in Austria, 50 burglaries per day that you believe to be 8 million Austrians, and a staff stand within the executive, which has remained in de facto since 2000 under the aegis of your Minister and the Minister of Public Health! Alone in my hometown Since the year 2000, Graz has been serving 715 planned places – less the people who were born and the reduction of weekly service times 715 executive planning posts! – and on the weekend the second largest city in Austria is monitored by exactly 54 officials in the weekend service. If that's safety, Mrs. Inner Minister, I'm really wondering what uncertainty is. If you are responsible for security, then I really get to do it slowly with fear! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, today you are presenting a 2008 safety report, a chronology, a Bible of failure. And if I ask you today, What about the 2009 Security Report? – We are writing June 2010! Will the disagreement between the two ministries, through which they cannot even design statistics, result in us discussing the Austrian security situation of the year 2009 in 2013? Mrs Bundesminister, we do not need to You're going to lead us ad absurdly, and that's what you're doing. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] And what is it now, ladies and gentlemen, with the abolition of the detention package? . They allow thousands of criminals to go out of prison each year, release dangerous offenders to the population again, without you being able to fulfill your promise, to finally take back this detention package so that at least we can no longer expect any more danger from those whom we have successfully put behind the castle and bars. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's an insult to every judicial officer, it's an insult to every executive officer that you allow the offenders to dance around again to the police on the nose. There is no staff representative behind your policy! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The second topic that is moving Austria is this case of Arizona Zogaj: this case, which has been discussed in Austria since 2001, and which no man in this country can hear anymore. No one can hear this case anymore and no one wants to deal with this monkey theatre anymore, I would like to say, which since 2001 has paralyzed our justice with 112 applications and two constitutional court judgments. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] What you're doing here, what this case of Arizona Zogaj means, is the individual example of asylum abuse that takes place every day in Austria. That now refers to the name of this family, but this family and this name stands for, they are a synonym for asylum laws in Austria that you have to answer. The abuse of asylum always includes two: a policy that can be misused with 112 applications, nine years of employment therapy for justice and millions of tax money, and those who can use the system at all. And in that you show no insight and at last learn from it and make our asylum laws stricter, make our asylum laws more logical, so that only those in this country have a right of residence that is in need of protection at all, the failure of your policy lies in the asylum law. This will lead to social and social tensions – not only in Graz, Innsbruck, Klagenfurt, no, throughout Austria! – because the population expects you to have legal certainty and reliability in the area of asylum. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What the case of Arizona Zogaj shows us – an asylum procedure that finally extorted the right to stay over nine years over the jurist mafia, which she supported there – is a signal to all the world: Come to us to Austria, with us the anarchy already reigns! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... Russian Mafia... Citizenship!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Do’s threaten a bit with suicide, it goes twice to the Constitutional Court, it finances a few good lawyers, the Republic of Austria can anyway be peddled, the laws apply anyway to no one! This signal is wrong! On the other hand, we are fighting, and we are fighting for asylum laws – for strict asylum laws. In this respect, the BZÖ has a proposal, the "Ausländer-Check", so that in future we have only those whom we want, and not those who divide us with your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12011	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12032	Mr President. My esteemed Federal ministers, who manage the security in Austria in such an excellent way! Ladies and gentlemen, especially from BZÖ and FPÖ! Let us go back to the facts that are correct and so important that we communicate them to people. [[Call to the FPÖ: These are facts!]] They are also included in the safety report accordingly. I would like to start with Mr Grosz's asylum figures. – It has changed a lot: It has changed the legal situation that the figures are going down thank God, and Mrs. Federal Minister Maria Fekter is doing a very, very good job here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] Let's stick to the facts, that's the only thing that matters! I'd have another request: If we don't play a political game, we won't beat political change from the subjective sense of security of people, one of the most important things people carry in them! Every burglary is insecure, and there is nothing worse than not to feel comfortable in his own four walls. Here too, the statistics speak a clear language: It is precisely this indicator crime, which is responsible for whether one feels subjectively safe or insecure, namely burglary theft, is declining. Here I am limited only to a few figures from my home country Upper Austria: The break-in in-house crime, in apartments, fell by 27 percent in 2009; the number of collapses in motor vehicles has even halved. These are two figures that prove that the police are not only doing good strategic work – and we are obliged to thank them – but that also proves that the Federal Minister, with her criminal police strategy paper, has given guidelines that are now taking effect. According to ten-year review in the Schengen area, there were even a little more property crime in Upper Austria in the year 2000 than now – despite open borders and the extension of Schengen. Therefore, it would be no answer to close the borders again. Our police – at the head of our security minister – do excellent work for the safety of Austrians. [[Abg. Grosz: Who is the Minister of Security? – Marriage mediator Fekter!]] We should communicate this together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Grosz, let us together be proud that we are the fourth most secure country in the world ranking, that we are the safest country in the EU comparison! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Partner agency Mizzi”!]] Together with a good and responsible policy, let us help to achieve the goal that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs sees to become the safest country in the world again! I thank you for the excellent work, Mrs. Federal Minister. It is good that these figures also prove, in fact, how the way the police went right.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12113	Next speaker: Mr Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12145	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrian fellow citizens! You're wrong! You've been wrong for years! We are an incredibly safe country, and you, dear Austrian fellow citizens, do not believe that. That's devastating! What I heard now is quite different! There are always citizens who talk to me and say: You are in the National Council, you are a Member of Parliament, see that this is not going to happen any more so that we are constantly broken in, that we feel insecure that we can no longer go over the street with our bag, because we have to fear that the bag will be torn down, that we can no longer get into public transport, because we have to fear that we will be beaten down, robbed and stolen there, that our cars will be stolen. [[Abg. Grosz: This has already happened to the woman minister!]] – That’s all wrong, dear citizens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's all wrong! Didn't you hear it? We're so sure, we'll hear it all the time. Ladies and gentlemen from the government parties are promising our Minister of the Interior. She's the world champion. [[Abg. Grosz: In marriage!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if it is not so sad what is happening in our country, you could actually write a farce for cabaret. It's incredible. Every fourth Austrian is directly or indirectly affected by any crime. - Point one. Point two: Here it is said that there is no such thing, because we have “only” – under quotation marks – 560,000 crimes. That could only be about a sixteenth in 8 million people. Wonderful! But the fact that four, five or six people are affected by a break-in into a house and that it is not just one apartment that is affected, but that there are several roommates there, that is simply ignored. [[Abg. Amon: But there are a few crimes together!]] The fact that in some underground garages it is a lot of cars and therefore also a lot of car owners is not interested in this. This is summarized in statistics – and thus we are the fourth most secure country in Europe or even worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, our population is actually insecure. She doesn't feel safe. [[Abg. Amon: You do everything for it!]] Our population does not feel insecure because we fulfill our duty and show it, but it feels insecure because it experiences it. She experiences that our country has become insecure, that we must lock, lock and secure our homes with lattices, if possible. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] She feels insecure because it is no longer possible for an apartment to remain open. That's what it says: If you don't lock up your apartment, you'll be blamed if you break in. – It should be a matter of course that we get back where we were before. I very much liked the fact that the honourable Member, Mr Pendl, has said that we must also take social measures for safety. - Yes, where? In Georgia, in Chechnya, in Moldova? There we will need the social measures, because the intruders come from there. But there we cannot put in place social measures. We must therefore use the instrument we can use. We have to close our borders temporarily, unannounced, so that we can catch these guys – the “bursses” who are both boys and girls now – if they want to return home well loaded with their prey, or make sure they don't come in at all. We need to strengthen our equipment, that is, our police and everything that belongs to it, our security facilities, so much humane, that we can generate much more security. The personnel situation of our police is probably sufficiently well known. [[Abg. Lueger: They caused you!]] -I know we caused her. The "evil" black-blue coalition is to blame for everything. This is a wonderful thing that you are expressing here. But you also know, of course, that at least my party has paid enough for it and we are now on the way that you are certainly not – on the way that we are restoring security for this our home country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12255	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12276	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Weinzinger, I have now really asked myself in your speech: Which Austria do you live in and what public transport in? [[Abg. Themessl: In Upper Austria!]] I'm an zealous user of the train and also the subway, but I've never been afraid on the train or on the subway. Mr President, I really don't know where you live. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Attnang-Puchheim is a dangerous patch!]] If you had made the effort to read the safety report that has been two years old, I admit, and this is also a criticism from us, you would have seen, Mr Weinzinger, that there has been a decrease in crime development in 2008 by 3.6 percent. The security report must also be read when it is on the agenda. I would also like to make a point about Mr Westenthaler; unfortunately, he is not in the hall now. He said that the security report reads that every second asylum seeker is criminal. If Mr Westenthaler had read the security report, he would know that this is not to be found in the safety report. That's the first point. And the second point is that this is just not right. Appreciated colleagues of the BZÖ and the Freeman! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] You might also have seen that the security report states that there are other trends, namely those that have increased dramatically by 21.6 percent in the number of right-wing, xenophobic and anti-Semtic offences. We should all take this very seriously here in the House. But we need to read the safety report and not always criticize everything without really making yourself aware of it. I do not want to speak in favour of this 3.6 percent reduction in 2008, because I also believe that the starting point of this decline has been a very high one. We recorded almost 595 000 crimes in 2007 – and this 3.6 percent decrease. And that, although there has always been a continuous increase in recent years. Mrs. Minister! In other words, we cannot really reject this development, but we must be actively opposed to it. I would also like to remind the Members of the Liberals, including Mr Weinzinger, that the greatest reduction in staff and most of the post closures took place under the participation of the Free and BZÖ governments. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's been a long time!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Straster!]] So now, leaning back and pretending you wouldn't do anything about it, that's just not all right. 3 000 police officers have been dismantled, and now we have to take up a staffing position that allows the police to work properly and restores the sense of security to people. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Four years had time!]] The Minister said in the Committee that 1 693 women and men are currently in training and 559 new shots are planned this year. This is a very important measure, Mrs Minister, and I think it is also very overdue. I am convinced that we need more staff, we don't just need Sokos, because these officials are often just assigned and then leave the police inspection again. That is why it is very important to increase staff. I would like to make a very quick request, Mrs Minister: In Lower Austria, 25 000 signatures were collected for more personnel in our police inspections. Unfortunately, they have not yet been willing to accept these signatures. Maybe you'll give yourself a back and accept these signatures!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12394	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12415	Ladies and gentlemen! Interestingly, the Greens are now quite absent. There is indeed for this group... – It may be, but the Member of Parliament is Pilz there anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: No TV transmission!]] That's important, then everything fits anyway. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For most of the Green Group, there is only one issue in the security field, and that is how, when, when, and why, Mrs Zogaj and the family can stay in Austria. To a certain extent, I understand that, of course, because you can say: What did they do? They're integrated. – Only: That is why it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, because if someone, like me, has been more often in Kosovo and looks at how many, especially young people there are trying to rebuild the country and overcome these graves that the generation has torn up by a terrible war before, one can see the reality. This is partly also with Austrian help, because we are not only securing fragile peace there, but also the Austrian federal army, but also other initiatives are also trying to help build up the civil structures. There are also great school projects. And if you get in touch with these young people, who can sometimes also be very good at German, because they have claimed the help of Austria in the war phase to be able to live in security in our country, to get a training, to learn foreign languages, but then have gone back to their home country to rebuild this country, then you already wonder whether this debate is not going completely wrong in Austria and whether some institutions, lawyers, refugee advisers and also some of the politics about this family and this family really want to provide material advantages or at least a corresponding public advantage. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] What is the difference between the Zogaj case and many thousands of other cases? Maybe a difference: The Zogaj family only came to Austria illegally after the Kosovo war, and the others really fled from the war events. It's been donated a lot for this family. Part of it has been used to pay for tow straps that the Zogaj brothers brought back to Austria. If one had used all this money to create an existence for this family in Kosovo, it would have been more sensible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is that to say, too, is terrible if you have to go back to your own home to build it? What is this signal for the people of Kosovo? We all have an interest in this region being satisfied. And what kind of signal is this for many other thousands who came to Austria illegally and who, of course, had to leave that country? Ladies and gentlemen, this family and each of these consultants knew from the beginning that there are no grounds for asylum here. And that it is still possible to make 112 applications, to use the system for years and then say, but now it's too late, now they have to stay there, that's not just the rule of law questioning, but that's just crazy. That's crazy! If there is immigration to Austria, then according to the rules of immigration law. If a person abuses the right to asylum, regardless of whether he is a lover or a nice person or not, just to circumvent these immigration rules, he must leave the country if he has no asylum grounds. Only because someone is lucky to appear in the media can he not be preferred to all the others who do not have this privilege. This has nothing to do with human or inhumane, but it is simply the rules of reason, the rule of law and the sense of sense. And in this context, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this case is finally over and over again, in asylum law too, that the principle of a breakthrough is finally helped, that law does not give way to injustice, and that those who are really persecuted will quickly receive the support they are to receive, but those who misuse the right will also have to be quickly relocated and returned to their homeland.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12474	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12495	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Of the very encouraging aspects of the 2008 Security Report, such as a 3.6 percent reduction in crime, in Upper Austria, for example, we have heard by 5.1 percent compared with 2007. However, I would like to address one point that is particularly worrying to me, namely the marked increase in child and youth crime. This trend was quite evident in 2008. For example, there has been an increase of 25.8 percent in the 10- to 14-year-olds, and those of 18-year-olds already had a share of 18 percent of the total crime. Here, it is important to counter and attempt to prevent criminal developments as early as possible, to raise awareness of injustice and, above all, to highlight and make clear the boundaries between right and injustice. It is about preventing criminal careers as much as possible. Young offenders, whether from sad social conditions, from broken families or from migrant backgrounds, usually have a very long history of development. And police work is extremely important in these areas, but police work cannot replace the educational work in the families, it can support at most. Responsibility for children and young people must stay where she belongs. And these are the families, the parents, or the legitimates. The executive has acted very properly. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for their officials' support, because in addition to the general police work, 270 preventive officials were trained to be specifically active in this field. If you look at the figures of 2009, this focus education has already shown success. As a result, a reduction of 12.1 percent in the 10- to 14-year-olds was recorded, with almost 8 percent of those aged 18 and over. That's a very remarkable number. I hope, Mrs Fekter, that, based on these successes, the prevention of youth will be an important priority in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12538	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12559	Mr President. Dear Mrs Fekter! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true that the statistics of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior belong to harmonised, are made compatible. We're on the best way. There will soon be more clear and meaningful statistics here. This is an essential concern that we both have addressed. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just about nude numbers, it's mainly about the quality of work. And that's what you have to say: The work of the Austrian police and the work of the Austrian judicial system is really excellent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice are responsible for Austria being one of the safest countries in the world. You must not forget the following either: According to a study by the Council of Europe, Austria is number one in victim protection. – Don’t ignore that either! [[Call the FPÖ:Not for a long time!]] What bothers me so much: Everything is always so bad here in Austria. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Everything is well spoken!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's bad!]] Please, let us be proud of our country and let us be a little more positive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Right, yes! Great! Great!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if there are feasible improvements that are compatible with the rule of law, please suggest them! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12656	Next speaker: Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12707	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Listen to the criminal historians in the bank series. I am particularly pleased that so many young people who are interested in the security report have come in, unlike two ÖVP delegates from the security area, who obviously are not there and who are less interested in it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] The “currentity” of the security report is a mode operandi, is a act of a party, I really have to say that. The method, which has been used for a long time, not only recently, but also for a longer time, especially for the ÖVP, to postpone or suppress discussions long enough, until the issue of topicality and thus brisance has been lost, is an excellent way of preventing sensitive debates. In fact, the public is not at all interested in what happened in 2008, and it is an advantage for this House that the security report is presented to Parliament two years later for an arbitrary debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:No idea!]] There are bad decisions on both sides, perhaps not enough requests – not enough of us, there are enough here – and the quality of these applications and the quality of the Minister is not good, so the security situation is bad, and this is also due to the fact that we have a bad safety report, which is being submitted so late, because it could actually be based on new, even better applications. But above all, we need a better security policy for Mrs Minister, I would like to maintain that now. According to the motto: It's nothing more uninteresting than yesterday's newspaper, the ÖVP is going on here. Mrs. Ministers – both of them – will also have to raise the question of when to debate the current security situation. When can we expect the next security report? That would interest me. Perhaps I will compile my own safety report, according to my perceptions, because as a Member of Parliament I do not want to wait so long. The requirements for the safety report are: a certain amount of up-to-dateity with regard to seizure frequency and with regard to human equipment, equipment and resources for the operational group. As an interested Member of the Security Committee, I am particularly pleased to know: How is the new method of counting designed? Is it possible that the principles of the Lord Adam giant will be put out of force, so that, for example, two and two are no longer four, but perhaps any other number? Let us know about it in good time! Another important aspect, though small, that has not yet been sufficiently addressed, is the display by e-mail. In Germany, this is already being practised with great success, and I suggest to you, Minister Fekter, that you don't want it so much, otherwise you wouldn't hide it as beautifully behind the BMI portal, so that only the routine Internet user gets on how to do it. I also have to say this, because more ads on this route – the day that this went into operation in Germany – were once again a lot of ads there, because the citizen saves himself time – mean more need for explanation, but also a higher level of truth in the security report. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to point out a request from Mr Vilimsky, where you have actively shown that you have a great interest in concealment, otherwise you would have agreed to a time limit for the submission of the security report and would not reject it. That has system, and that will not be taken away from us. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12761	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12783	When I listened to the words of Mr Scheibner and his report on the construction of Kosovo, I almost got the impression that he wanted to go there and participate in it himself. One only has to say this in connection with Arizona Zogaj – and that is why I am speaking at all now, because this has a symbolic force that needs a more comprehensive comment: If someone is here in Austria, whose parents have decided to come here – under whatever premise – who was a child at the time, has grown up here and has been integrated here – I admit, perhaps there has not been the same quality in the asylum laws as now, but perhaps there has also been some sort of bureaucracy failure, perhaps even from political failure for some time, if you need eight years, until this process is completed – so if you look at it in total, then you can't simply say that, although they haven't grown up in their home country and never decided to leave their home country. This is a leap that does not take account of this individual fate. I already know that we have primarily to discuss the legal situation here, the laws, the enforceability, the efficiency of the procedures, the acceleration, the question of what the Ministry of the Interior and what the Ministry of Justice are doing. – That’s all right, but we should also take into account human individual skills. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I think that this is a misbalance if we do not do so in this context. I even go so far as to say that one can also criticise the legal advisers, and there will probably be business makers in similar other cases. [[Abg. Amon:... own contribution...! Tossing the procedure! An own contribution to delaying the procedure...!]] – Yes, but he throws the first stone, who doesn’t even know someone, who says what he can use in the legal framework, he uses. [[Call the SPÖ: Tax!]] That's what I meant by red tape failure, maybe even political failure. This has also led to the fact that we have kept making innovations. But what can this woman do for all of this? – This is the question you have to ask yourself in the final effect. The basis of our society, our legal understanding, but also the self-understanding of our country, our basic consensus also includes an aspect of humanity somewhere, and I therefore hope – and I say this in all clarity – that there is a solution in the final effect that, if she wants to, Arizona Zogaj can stay in that country, because in the final effect she has grown up here and in a sense an Austrian.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12851	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12872	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated women Federal ministers! High house! The debate on the safety report is a very controversial one. I have just heard from the Minister for Justice that she is actually complaining about the fact that there are opposition parties who are making things worse. – Ms Minister of Justice, yes, we too are proud of our country, and I add: We are very, very proud of our executives, because under these conditions she is still doing such great work, almost bordering on a miracle. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] What didn't the executive do? I can also tell you that this is not always the game of opposition against the two government parties, but it always depends very much on who is the Minister of the Interior and how he works for his civil servants. – There you can express anything but praise to Mrs Fekter's Minister of the Interior. I can look back a little bit into the past – I have already experienced several ministers of the interior –: I think with horror of Mr Caspar A person to whom distrust has even been expressed by his own staff. But that does not mean that there was no good interior minister at SPÖ. I think back with joy of a Karl Schlögl. With this one has always felt that he listens to you and he understands the problems of his officials. He's taken a good turn. What kind of interior minister do we have now? That's where we come to the SOKOs as a superintendent. Great media spectacle about what we don't do. Mrs. Fekter, I can tell you that you obviously have no ear for your civil service – at most perhaps for what is in the ministerial office, they have their own access to personnel policy. I remember the Minister's Office and his disclosure by Dr. Haidinger. He has revealed this mercilessly and has been suspended by you – wrongly suspended! – a non-profit-making Commission has not confirmed your suspension decision and has even withdrawn the suspension. He has shown mercilessly what a great role the party book plays in the Ministry of the Interior within the civil service. [[Abg. List: Incredible!]] This was also the “System Niederösterreich”, which began with Ernst Strasser, who always wanted so much Lower Austrian conditions. You are satisfied when there is a choice of personnel representation. There is a “ giant selection” on the poll, namely a fraction, the FCG, which you can then choose. This is also a pleasure to the President, who is currently chairing this House. Only, where did this system lead? - Yeah, yeah, that's all. [[Abg. Wheeler: FSG...!]] That's what we've experienced. Interior Minister Strasser has always put on a party eyeglasses when it comes to postage. Where did this lead? This has led to an internal termination. Not the best qualified person has been given the post, but one has always felt that it has become the one who had the best contacts with a particular party. Whether the staff is motivated or dismotivated is also reflected in the reconnaissance rate. I'm on my way enough and I've had a lot of conversation. From this point on, therefore, a great praise to the executive for doing such a good job with these conditions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need special units especially in the area of organised crime, which is always cross-border, in the area of drug crime, we need personnel that can be sure that politics is behind him – and, if it has to be, also before him. However, they convey the feeling that everyone has to do everything a hundred percent, but if something does not work anywhere, it is already shown with his finger on the executive officers. I can only warn you: If you continue this path, the internal termination will become more daily, and by doing so you are also at risk of receiving anything other than a good witness at the education rate. That's a shame, and people didn't deserve it either. Security is a basic need for every individual, and as an interior minister, you now have the whole, very great obligation to ensure that we have a staff at the executive, which is a hundred percent motivated. – Unfortunately, we do not have that right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12944	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12965	Mr President. My precious ladies on the government bank! High house! If I look at the zeal and enthusiasm with which some Members of the Government have celebrated this security report or its late presentation, this makes me thinkful. The question is, how useful and how efficient it is to discuss a safety report and its contents here after a year and a half, because in the meantime not only several statistics have been overtaken in this report, but also the terms of statistical management have fundamentally changed. I am therefore allowed to transfer to present-day topics. I can only stress that the police are doing good work, which has been addressed several times here. Our executive, our police and police actually do very good work, but not because they are so much supported by the BMI or because – I can quote Mrs. Interior Minister – modern strategies exist, but simply because of the fact that our police officers show special commitment through special zeal and commitment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why there is this special zeal and this particular commitment can be easily understood by some statistical values – many of which have already been mentioned here anyway – from internal police statistics. When you consider that our police in Vienna per month – per month! – 160,000 to 180,000 hours of additional services, i.e. overtime and therefore systematic journal services, this not only shows the urgent need for personnel, but it is also the basis for why, as an example, I take Vienna again, the criminal statistics are exploding to such an extent here. There, where there is no police there, of course, celebrates the crime of happy origins, and this is the very approach that FPÖ has been criticizing for years: the shortage of personnel in the executive. There you are, Madam Minister of the Interior, up to now more than sumptuous! I therefore ask you to: Create It can at last provide sufficient personnel for the executive, so that it can not only fulfil its obligation to provide subjective and objective security to the population, but also to gain recognition in the population. What is the reality today? off? Every police officer who comes to work today is usually confronted with the fact that he was either not there when the crime happened, or that he is coming too late because our police are simply waiting times or the lead times for the deployments are too long. There is therefore an urgent need for action here. A few more words about your SOKO philosophy: I think this too can easily be solved by adequate staff increases and personnel orders for the police. The current regulations or the current ministerial approaches look so like simply to withdraw staff from any services indiscriminately without replacing them. These officials are then in SOKOs, who are then hunted for criminal crimes elsewhere, which is basically all right, but they are then more or less misused for media self-representations, while on their parent offices the crime is overburdened and they can hardly fulfil their service obligations any more. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] – That is, I think, under any criticism. It is true that the ministry is finally looking at our police so that they can carry out their mission properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13023	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13044	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ms Bandion-Ortner mentioned earlier that she is open to proposals for improvement, and the opposition should be so good and approach her. I would like to remind you, Madam Minister, that the opposition has made a lot of requests, but they are repeatedly postponed by the government groups. So if we have good ideas, they will be postponed and not implemented. I may remind you and your department that a request has been postponed for a long time. This concerns child abuses in order to put in place stronger measures in this area. This request has been postponed forever, and I told you at the time in the committee that if you can continue to delay these measures and drive these people away. It really did, because it was still over the summer, and you said so much, you shouldn't blame it – but it's fact. You would have needed action, and you've been asleep and again responsible for suffering, I'm saying now. Now to the 2008 safety report: It has been mentioned many times today that it has been presented with an enormous delay. At the time of the computer, where you can actually call a statistics at the push of a button, it should not be a major problem to present such a report in good time. I think there are two ways: Either you have a lot of beautiful or redesigned, or there have been some technical problems – then please explain it to us! In Vorarlberg, such a safety report is said to be “Nochejasser. ” I'm translating this into German. ‘Nochejasser’ means as much as: I've got an old hat that I've been discussing sometime, but it's been a long history. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of the police is not appreciated. I really want to put it that way in the room. It is actually a fact that the officials appear as if their work was not worth anything. I often hear this from officials, from colleagues who speak to me and say: This is crazy, I have invested so much work there, have transferred a gang of burglars, and finally this goes with a low level of punishment, if at all, or even empty, because some reasons are found to avoid having to punish these people in order to keep certain statistics small here. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Something's going wrong. That is depressing, as Mr Windholz mentioned earlier. This does not improve the motivation of the executive. I would also like to draw attention to the increasing number of attacks on police officers and judicial officers. There has been an eerie rise, especially in the federal state of Vorarlberg. The executive officer is no longer an authority person, and that for the reason that the state or authority is simply not behind him. Something's going wrong! If I want motivated, well-trained police officers, I have to give them full support. I have to stand behind these officials and should not leave them on the left once it becomes difficult. I think that's where we have big problems. You can find out for yourself: Talk to your people, the officers, who also go out on the street, who then have to deal with the complaints against the officials and see what's really going on on the street! There's a lot of things going wrong. You have to stand behind that as an authority, and you need to step in more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also like to criticise or put into another light the decisions of the authorities in this regard. I spoke to a senior police officer from Styria yesterday, and he explained the following to me – I have heard the example often, in another version, so that the executives simply wonder that they are still doing certain activities at all – a small example of this unsatisfactory situation: A Ghanaian is picked up in the Styria. He has a residence ban in Austria, is married to an Austrian woman and has appeared in Spain as an asylum seekers because he has the residence ban in Austria. They asked the authority what to do with him, and it said: This is difficult, we have to point it out to the country; tell him to go back to Spain. - Oh, great, dumb! The next day he will be found somewhere else in Austria, and the same procedure will expire from Neuem. This is not how it can be done, ladies and gentlemen, we need to intervene here. I would also like to address the administrative reform, which is very important to me. The Executive Officers are tossed with administrative activities! They hardly have time to carry out their activities in the field of foreign service, since now more than 50 percent of the activities in the waxhouses have to be carried out. It can't be! It is necessary to take measures at the time of technological progress in order to protect officials from writing. That a statistics must be filled out everywhere and, and, and that can't be it! The officials belong to the street and not to the pens. However, I do not wish to miss out on expressing my thanks to the police and judicial officials. Under these circumstances – it has already been mentioned several times – very good work is done here, unfortunately to a very poor salary! Because the officials, if they have a bit of pay together want to get mad enough overtime to do, then they are overstretched, they are no longer as physically and mentally durable as it should actually be. There is a good example: In Germany they have a higher basic salary, there are no more overtime. The basic content is above Austrian level, I have to say quite clearly. But they only have to do their 40 hours and are rested when they return to service and not burned out. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to return briefly to the case of Zogaj. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter speaks to Federal Minister Mag. Bandion-Ortner.]] Mrs Minister, if I may interrupt you for a moment, perhaps you can give me an answer to that. The Zogaj family has already – we have heard – 112 procedures. I would be interested to see how high the costs for the Austrian state are by this family as far as the procedures are concerned, as regards the maintenance of this family and as far as the costs of hospitalization are concerned, as they are always so poor in health when they are close to the deportation. I would be interested to say that to the taxpayer once! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13150	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13172	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I must say from this point of view that a completely false security image has been drawn up by the two government parties in the debates, for example by Mr Amon, but also by the other speakers. The security policy of recent years is disastrous! You, Mrs. Fekter, have easily opened the borders of Austria with your party colleagues Strasser and Platter, as well as with the previous red interior ministers, who are already known. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Through these open borders, you have chosen and made Austria an intruder paradise. That is why I note here today that this was a missing security policy to the detriment of our country. More and more groups of perpetrators are moving their field of action to Austria to make rich prey. The intruders are organized and fast to beat. Daily pass 240 burglaries, which means already every 6 minutes will be broken in! Intrusion and pocket-drawers have high season. Recent victim of Thieves became her red transport minister Doris BuresWhen buying in a supermarket in Vienna, the perpetrators stole the wallet. I hope that's not a bad omen. These three thieves probably also stole the money for the Koralmbahn and the Semmering Base Tunnel, because Bures wants to block this project now. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But that's another subject, which will be dealt with later. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government are selected by thieves anyway, and Riess-Passer and Kdolsky have also been stolen. We all know that. You too, Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, were taken out of the handbag – certainly embarrassing for the chief of the police! Unfortunately, we do not live in any safe country anymore, you have to experience it yourself. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The people are worried, they're afraid of their property. At the beginning of 2009, the collapses in single-family houses in Styria alone increased by 43 percent. This clearly contradicts this 2008 safety report. The collapses are occurring in agglomerations and are increasing near the border, because the thief's property can be quickly spent. Thieves are always getting freaky there. Probably all the perpetrators who now live along the border have their prey quickly across the open border – across your open border! – transported away. There, a carefully controlled external border could certainly have prevented or at least made a little more difficult. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we call for the reintroduction of border controls. We demand: The limits must be monitored more closely with their own border guards! We must also employ enough police officers across Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Two thousand police officers could be hired immediately if we were to reduce the promotion of the party. The annual savings amount of € 105 million covers exactly the personnel costs for a year of at least 200 police officers. Less party support for police security must be one of our most important security policy objectives!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13247	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13268	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! High house! We will not take note of this safety report. On the one hand, as today, it makes little sense to discuss a 2008 report in 2010. On the other hand, you have remained guilty in this context, Mrs Minister: When will the 2009 Security Report be available? What we are particularly interested in in this context: Is the number of asylum seekers actually as low as you suddenly knew about the situation in Eberau? Secondly, there are beautiful figures in this safety report. It has already been said today: With statistical tricks – 20 cars are broken up in the Mariahilfer Straße, but there are not 20 burglaries reported, but it is statistically a case – the numbers are beautiful. On the other hand: If you look at your interpretations, including in the security report – overall crime dropped by 3.6 percent in 2008 – you have to read the small print. In Austria, a total of 573,000 criminal acts were committed in 2008 – not so few! – showed that by 3.6% less than in the previous year. From this, Mrs Bundesminister, you will derive your success report from the fact that overall crime has fallen by 3.6 percent. In reality, the ads have gone back! I also tell you why: because it has become no matter what people do! The education rate is declining. They go and know – everyone to whom the car is broken up – the police officer takes up an ad, but the consequences are zero. The Enlightenment is zero, it really doesn't make any sense to bring in ads. But even in spite of the beautiful figures, this report is in reality a declaration of bankruptcy all the way! Crime has increased, staff problems in the executive have not been solved, nor has the asylum problem. Paper is patient: 600 pages, 200 pages of statistics. But what has made me particularly concerned in this debate today is the statements of the Federal Ministers and the representatives of the ÖVP. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have gone here and told us to be pleased that the situation in our beautiful country is so. Mrs. Federal Minister! Your own statistics give no reason for joy. [[Abg. Kößl: Listen!]] Explain why the rise in crime against body and life has exorbitantly increased in Vienna! Should people in Floridsdorf be happy that there has been an increase of 43 percent? Should people in the Murau district be pleased that there were 15 percent more crimes compared to the previous year? Should people in Krems be happy that 80 percent more crime is happening? You should be happy about this in Mattersburg: 18 percent more crime!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated representatives of the ÖVP – Mr Amon, who spoke of a success, Mr Kößl, who said: great! –, explain this to the people here! For your statements there are in reality two reasons or two possibilities: On the one hand, you mean it cynically when you go here today and say that we should be pleased about this situation, and you are thus mocking the Austrians. Or you will suffer from loss of reality, because your beautiful statistics speak a completely different language. If the ÖVP speaks of a success today, it can only be a success in relation to the party-political positions you have made in the Ministry of the Interior in recent years. I would also like to draw attention to this today. Since 2007, since Strasser, since Platter, the black interior resort has been systematically recolored via strategic post positions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is particularly true in recent times, so that until now key positions have been awarded via the National Police Command without interference of the respective Minister, but since Strasser we know yes, there is the black staff representation, a Mr. Michael Kloibmüller – I think that is your head of the department as the chief of the cabinet – which has been particularly prominent. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Minister of Justice! I would just like to draw attention to this: It was, I think, the greens who also indicated the e-mail traffic in this context. In 2008, this criminal offence would have been to be treated. Will we wait again from the judicial system as long as Mr Strasser does, that the e-mails are then suddenly delayed or that we have forgotten this act? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm just remembering how these posts are handled. For example, an ÖVP candidate is praised as follows: “It is a man who is loyal to us, even though his father, criminal officer E. J., was a blue councillor in Schwechat.” And suddenly such posts are carried out: as “loyal” leader, a man“ of us. ” The practice has changed dramatically among you, Mrs Bundesminister, in this area. Since 2007, the applications of police officers from other federal states have increased. If an application succeeds in this way, then the State Police Command can no longer decide on the personnel occupation, but then the Federal Ministry of the Interior decides. That is, if the EIA today speaks of a success in this security report, then it can only be the success for the EIA and for its black personnel representation, as I mean. On the asylum issue, which has also increased dramatically this year, I would like to conclude by giving the Social Democrats a little more direction. The People's Aid and the Chamber of Workers have published an investigation comparing the material situation of asylum seekers with that of the unemployed in Austria. The survey was based on the model case of a family with three children, and the following was demonstrated: The asylum-seekers' family may obtain grants of a total of €13 150 per year from Austrian tax money, using all the support claims. In an Austrian family where a parent has become unemployed, the father has suddenly become unemployed – in the present situation not a single case – he receives 12 400 € for himself and his family, thus significantly less than the asylum seekers. The asylum family can also be replaced by the state by the costs for rent, for electricity, for gas, for heating, for television fees and for hygiene items – not so the Austrian unemployed! Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated representatives of the government parties! In any case, this is an obvious case of inequality to the detriment of the Austrian unemployed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at how these laws are practised and how we stand in comparison with other European countries or internationally, you can only say: We are world champions in the reception of asylum seekers, so we are world champions in the import of crime, of problems that we can no longer solve – as we see in the case of Zogaj – for legal reasons. In Austria, an asylumant has already reached 265 inhabitants, in Germany there are 1,700 inhabitants, and in the USA – a country that is always particularly tolerant and praised as an immigration country – an asylumist comes to 13,697 inhabitants. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to remind you that if the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice today jointly defend the security and the practice of asylum, we are actually inviting criminals abroad to take advantage of our legal system in Austria and to commit crime here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13347	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13368	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Cap has previously related to Arizona Zogaj asked the question of humanity or expressed an appeal to humanity. – I think the rule of law and the rule of law are very high-quality achievements in our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not an easy task both for the Minister of the Interior and for the Minister of Justice to help the rule of law to break through and maintain it, according to the principle of “every man is equal before the law” and to give every man the opportunity to have his own right in this The rule of law must also be able to enforce it. It is not an easy task to fulfil this difficult task. I think that both ladies, Claudia Bandion-Ortner and Maria Fekter, are doing this task in an excellent way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, the two ministers have therefore not deserved to accept in question packed questions of their activity. With this question of humanity, the rule of law is actually being questioned. I think that Madam President Prammer was perfectly right when she recently found that decisions and findings of the Constitutional Court must of course be recognized and implemented, and nothing else does our two ministers. Again: I would therefore urge you to hold back, because these questions are, in fact, a question, not only a question of the two ministers, but of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13429	There are no further words available to this effect. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-99. If you are in favour of this notice, I would ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:01:57]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (744 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Waffengesetz 1996 (Waffengesetz-Novelle 2010) (755 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13468	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13495	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Kopf, you already get such a certain impression if you look at both of you a bit. Is it enough again? – I hope you have drawn the lessons for the last time! [[Abg. List: You're still calling each other!]] [[Abg. Head: Then I would put it differently!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to amend the Waffengesetz, we have no consent, and I would like to explain this in the following way: The way in which this arms law is amended is exaggerated. That is why I am also surprised that the FPÖ has agreed to this. This surprises me a little, because the FPÖ has always been a little oriented towards the lobby of weapons and has always been behind the decent and brave citizens, who are also the owners of weapons and who claim this right of freedom for themselves, that is to say, on this side. However, you seem to be making a kneefall in front of the EU. I'm sorry. I can only invite you: Maybe you'll still think about it. You still have a few minutes to change your mind for the better. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I would like to explain why we find this change of arms law somewhat exaggerated. Once I go into the category D of weapons, these are the weapons with drawn, smooth running, so there is also a mention of firearms with lumbar locks, wheel locks, stone locks and percussion ignitions. For those who may not know exactly what that is: These are the front loader rifles, which are lit in the back at a snap, so that the powder explodes, or with a chapel, so we say, a small capsule, which is equipped with the ignition capsule at the back, then one speaks of a percussion lock. There are then different versions of it, for example with a stone lock; there is a firestone that makes a spark, and then the powder inflames. This doesn't always work the first time. Somehow I find it exaggerating that these weapons, some or most of them come from historical stocks, if you sell them if you inherit them, you really have to register them. They all don't have a gun ID number, but I have to have a number engraved in it first and can only go to the gun dealer. There is already the next crux in history, because it is not in the law whether and how much the arms dealer may demand for his services to the state. It's not inside, it's not fixed. This is also another point where the measure is a bit exaggerated or perhaps simply has to be covered. I would like to address a little more precisely the problem with the historical weapons or the weapons used mainly by historical shooters in the care of customs. If a company buys new weapons, which are of historical origin, for example, my company has guns from before 1870 or even earlier, which were then re-trained because they were no longer safe, it is necessary to engrave a number into each weapon. Then someone who also has a weapons possession card or a weapon passport must go to the authority and register it. I don't know what the legislation was thinking about. It seems to me that there is another kneefall in front of EU bureaucracy, and that is the wrong way. Dear colleagues from the FPÖ, I cordially invite you again: Reject this law with us! It's pointless! It doesn't make any sense! This law is completely missing. It's been forgotten about a lot of things. Our customs and our tradition are trodden with feet. This law must be rejected! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13548	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13570	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hagen, the custom is in no way restricted. This is a total misinterpretation or has been incorrectly read out from the new guidelines that exist with this novel. Our good arms law is in no way affected by this amendment or adaptation to the EU Weapons Law Directive. I think this innovation will create more security. ==References== There will be a computer-aided weapons register on December 20, 2014. That makes sense. In addition to the Faustfire weapons, all long weapons will also be registered in the future. I think that this is also an essential advantage. By registering on one side and the Central Registration Office on the other, it will no longer be necessary for weapons owners, when moving, to obtain new documents or to convert the weapon. This is also a positive effect of this innovation or adaptation to the EU Weapons Law Directive. The system of retention is adapted to the practical needs, in so far as not every single violation of the order for careful custody is considered as an indication of the lack of reliability. With this Weapons Act, with this adaptation to the EU Weapons Law Directive, there will certainly only be a substantial improvement in security and, in general, a simplification of the handling of the Weapons Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13606	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13627	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new EU Weapons Law Directive has been in place since 2007. It entered into force in July 2008, and must now be transposed into national law by July 2010. In the course of the review, a number of experts, known as experts, were invited. I just want to mention SOS co-human or the Caritas. On the other hand, associations and groups such as the IWÖ, the "Interessesgemeinschaft Liberales Waffenrecht in Austria", were not invited to review and could not submit a proposal. In future, therefore, acquisition and possession of all firearms must be recorded in a computer-supported arms register. Such a register shall be valid no later than 31. In December 2014 it was introduced. Category C and D firearms must be registered within six weeks of their acquisition by established traders entitled to trade in non-military firearms. Ladies and gentlemen, the current arms law is sufficient; the current arms law does not need to be strengthened. Hunters, collectors and sportsmen must not become the goal of a regulatory and regulatory act. The BZÖ will not agree to this amendment to the arms law, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Many questions remain open and unexplained. One of them is: If § 18 para. 4 possibly to criminalise right-wing weapons owners by perhaps not being caught in full-handed rifle patterns despite severe discrimination? § 43 is not coherent for me personally, namely the inheritance of weapons of category A. This is explicitly forbidden now, and the heirs cannot receive the justification for acquiring such weapons. Of course, we also need to look at the cost factor. The cost of implementing the arms register is estimated at around €740 000, the current cost of maintenance per year at € 130 000. This money would certainly be better used and used in the security budget, ladies and gentlemen. For comparison: There has been a similar government project in Canada, which is more than It cost two billion Canadian dollars. Originally, only two million were expected. In the meantime, registration has been set as impracticable and pointless. In my opinion, summa summarum has been denied the opportunity to simplify the administration in the course of the implementation of the law and to adapt it to the liberal provisions of the directive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13682	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13703	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Kößl has made it clear what this revision of the Waffengesetz is about. There's nothing to add to that. Mr Hagen, a arms law can never be strict enough if you know what all this is possible. You don't think so, but we have to think a little bit about it here, too. Sure, you can have a weapon to protect living and operating rooms. We may also need to think here about how to advise arms users accordingly. I am thinking of some recent incidents. It is also very important to deal with horrendous weapons, which can be falsely similar to a normal weapon and lead to fatal misunderstandings that can ultimately be fatal. You should also think about how to handle this. It is already remarkable and worrying if a 85-year-old man with a horrendous weapon is able to defend his house or his apartment. There's something that's failed to find out. In the future, we also have a task to do, or at least to think about how to do it. Mr Hagen, if the Austrian Parliament meets EU requirements, this has nothing to do with knee attacks. It sometimes helps us to decide laws that we do not trust with our own political courage, because we can then say so comfortably that Europeans have bought it and we have to do it. One should not pour the child out with the bath, but be glad that we have taken a step further. I am expressly grateful to those parties who are involved in this law. That also shows that it is of good quality. I can therefore ask you to strongly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13740	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13762	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I am quite a man of sharp criticism, but I do not want to say that something is all right if it is understandable and the need for a directive is not used to mutter things. This novel is all right from our point of view. What has come from Brussels could have been used to tighten the law of arms. This has not been done, and from my point of view, that is something to be honoured accordingly. It must be said to the BZÖ that the informants in the club obviously did not really get involved in the matter. We asked ourselves in committee. The registration of a weapon will cost nothing if it is made with a citizen card. That's all right, and that's good. The Federal Government does not levy an administrative burden; we have also feared that. This fear is completely removed for all those in the Committee. It must be said, however, that this law could have been a little better, and I therefore allow myself to submit the following amendment, which I will further justify. The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: 1. Z 15 reads as follows: “15. Paragraph 6 above is replaced by the following: ‘(1)’. 2 added: ‘(2) It is not considered to be a possession of weapons on the occasion of a sales interview in the business location of a trader according to § 47 para. 2 and the use of weapons and ammunition under the supervision of a person entitled to possession. 2. After Z 59, the following Z 59a is inserted: ‘59a. In § 38 para. 3 Z 2 the word ‘three’ is replaced by ‘five’. 3. The following Z 70a is inserted after Z 70: ‘70a. In § 45 Z 2, the year ‘1871’ is replaced by the year ‘1900’. This is the following: From our point of view, the concept of belonging to this law is a bit sluggish, and one could have done better, so that it is not the case that young defenders and young hunters can be in trouble because they only get a weapon to view. On this point, further clarification would be a good thing and something necessary. The second point concerns sportsmen who transport weapons to apply. The question is that the possibility given in the Federal Republic of Germany is also valid for the Austrian region with five not only three firearms for competitions. This is a major disadvantage for Austrian sportsmen and could be eliminated. The third point is a historical one that concerns the year 1871. We asked the Committee for clarification on why it was precisely 1871. No one could really tell us about it. The reason was that this was just the time to switch from front-loader weapons to rear-loader weapons. This is certainly not the case after consultation with experts. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is true!]] That is not true, Mrs Colleague! Let me give you an example: Revolver of the Gasser M/1870 brand will be in the 20th century from 1870 until the 20th century. In the 19th century, and the law, Mrs. Minister, has the result that a gun produced in 1870 does not have to be registered and one from 1872 has to be registered by the same design. We propose to take the year 1900 as a border, which would be comprehensible, and not the arbitraryly drawn limit of 1871, which was set for my knowledge and my search for 1938 and was then taken over again and again without critically questioning it. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see further clarifications, determinations in arms law. I am concerned with putting it out of the government's discretion. Whether sportsmen also have the right to perhaps hold a third or fourth weapon for sports purposes, there is a completely different government practice across Austria. It would also give the authorities legal certainty if the law were to specify and determine, and the official would not have to be afraid that, if he might allow a third sport weapon, something could happen to him in the future. It never happens with legal weapons anyway. In these points, small adjustments would be desirable. Otherwise, we agree with this amendment because we believe that it has not been misused to implement stricter arms law, but has only been put into national law by Community law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13811	The amendment or supplementary request which has just been submitted is sufficiently justified, is related to the submission and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13889	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13910	Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to the amendment of the arms law. The registration obligation is certainly a real step and certainly not a step back, but, Mrs. Federal Minister, it is a shame that the opportunity of innovation has been missed and has not been able to resolve the shortcomings in the existing law. Mrs Bundesminister, you told me in committee that our arms law is not so bad, it works very well. I am inclined to agree to you in part. Since the novel in 1996, gun murders have fallen by 60 percent, but this shows above all that a strict and sharp right of arms has an effect. And since two thirds of all murder crimes continue to take place in families with firearms, this can only be a task to make further intensifications here and to make arms law even more stringent. You, Mrs Minister, also said in the Committee that the problem of murder offences is not so interesting in terms of arms law, because most of it happens with illegal weapons anyway. First of all, you do not know that – at least half a year ago, you have not been able to answer a parliamentary question in this regard – and thirdly, there are always examples in the media that show the opposite. In February, the newspaper “Today ” reported: Always new details after the death shots on the son. Erbfehde has been babbling for years. The father pulled his Smith & Wesson gun, which he owns legally. He shot and met the son. The victim leaves behind a pregnant fiancée, the wedding date has already been fixed. - Quote. It is also ignored that most of the suicide crimes happen with legal weapons. That is, there is a massive need for action here, but it is advocating it. What are the problems? – We can discuss whether we are for an absolute private weapon ban: yes or no? It's me, it's not you, but even if you're not, it's like there are shortcomings in the existing law that are eliminated. One point is the verification of reliability, which should take place every five years. Here too, a recent example that highlights the urgent need for reform. You can remember the tragic case at Hollabrunn District Court, where a man was forced into the court and shot by a courtman in the course of a custody dispute. At that time it was reported: Hollabrunn Court Killer. He was a ticking time bomb. Teachers drank 18 bottles of beer daily. The authorities saw no reason to take away the weapons or the weapons possession card from the special. - Quote. That's exactly the problem! The verification of reliability does not work. The law makes it quite clear: If someone's an alcoholic, he's not reliable. But obviously, the law cannot be implemented optimally, so we have in this point § 8, reliability check, with certainty a need for reform. The second point where there is a need for reform in connection with security is the multiple occurrence of psychological tests. At the moment you can start, you can't do it, you don't get a gun, then you try again. At some point the dumbest donkey then got what the answers are to get a gun, and eventually this psychotest will pass. I think it is obvious that legislative measures are necessary that one cannot take so long in a psychological test until one receives a weapon, because this completely undermines the effectiveness of the psychological test. Private weapons bans to or from – we are clearly positioned there – but it is incontrovertible that, even if you are opposed to a private weapon ban, there is an urgent need for reform, as these dramatic cases of recent times show. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13974	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13996	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! In my view, the present draft revision of the Arms Act provides for three major amendments to the 1996 Act. Firstly, all weapons have to be registered by 2014, i.e. the long arms, computerised. Secondly, the implementation of the EU Directive will also provide for the deactivation of firearms. For example, people who get old weapons inherited from dead relatives can then disable them, with which these weapons are excluded from the law. Thirdly, there will be a more practical regime for the protection of firearms in the future. According to the law in force, there is no handling against the owners of C and D weapons if they fail to keep their weapons properly. A general obligation is now being introduced which precisely regulates the careful retention of firearms and ammunition. Here, too, there were questions to me. Concerned citizens have turned to me, how to deal with violations and how these effects are. And I can assure you that every minor infringement will not result in an immediate withdrawal of the right, but it should be carried out. As a general rule, a warning is to be given at first, usually an administrative penalty is imposed, and only as a last sentence, if one is uninstructable, is to be withdrawn from the right. I would also like to address the ambiguity of the Committee on Costs, which has already been mentioned by Mr von der FPÖ, before. Of course, there has already been a factor in the free market. If you register by citizen card, there is no cost. The suspicion that new charges would be lifted here can therefore be rejected. In summary, you can say: We have a new, modern law here, which enables us to take effective action against abuse. I think we're here at the time, and I'm asking for approval. Maybe the BZÖ is still considering.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14041	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14062	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Firearms in private households, especially if they are not properly kept, are a huge security risk. A restrictive arms law prevents tragic accidents, such as from playing children, just as it helps to elevate dangerous short-term actions, often in the family at least. We all know the statistics from America or other countries in which the private possession of weapons is widespread. Firearms do not prevent crime, it actually only increases the proportion of fatal accidents and domestic conflicts. I mean and am also convinced that anyone who acquires his weapon in a legal way and wants to use it for legal purposes, such as hunting or sports, will have no problem with having his weapon registered. Six weeks after the purchase, it is really an appropriate time to have his gun registered with a arms dealer and also to state a reason for the acquisition or possession of this weapon, be it for sport, hunting or membership in a traditional club, as it has been said many times today. In my view, the review of whether the possessor is not subject to a weapons ban is an additional contribution to greater security. In addition, there is a need for a new approach to this Determining that the weapons owners are obliged to keep their weapons carefully creates more security. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words on the private possession of arms on my part. I am convinced that private arms possession is not really a suitable strategy to defend its property against criminals or other invaders. This is clearly stated here in the context of this debate. It is not to be seen and irresponsible that some who support the armament of the population with arguments of the fight against crime are even in favour of easing the arms law. The persecution and prevention of crimes is the task of the police and not of some self-proclaimed privates. Apart from that, a weapon in the household means an additional risk for crime victims. Your own weapon in the hands of criminals is a greater danger to body and life. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, High House: A restrictive arms law and the registration of firearms help save lives. Weapons in households do not serve to combat crime, but, in my view, are a security risk.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14111	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As an amendment or an additional amendment was tabled in the short term and a brief interruption of the sitting in preparation for the vote is not sufficient, I shall refer the vote to the end of the vote on Agenda items 4 to 6. [[14:30:23]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (586, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on cooperation in the field of civil protection (756 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14151	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14178	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! This is not the world's moving agenda, this agreement with the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on cooperation in the field of civil protection, but I think it also has an interesting facet, as you can see when reading the Preamble and the entire history of its origin. This also shows how much other countries are interested – in this case the Kingdom of Morocco – in concluding a bilateral agreement with Austria on cooperation in the field of civil protection. It's an interesting story: It was already in 1998 when the Moroccan Minister of State expressed this wish. Now, twelve years after the formulation of this wish, we are concluding this agreement today. Very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, is – you will probably have studied it the same as I have all; I am a little more precise – the entrance address: ‘Remembering the relationship between the two states marked by friendship and warmth’. I believe that this is an excellent Preamble, which shows the importance of Austria and, above all, international relations. The second point I would like to put forward is the following: Why such an agreement with Austria? – Because, of course, the other countries appreciate the high level of competence of the Austrian operational organisations. This agreement is about mutual assistance in the face of disasters or in the face of threatening disasters – not in the event of war, that is quite clear – and I think it is an excellent situation for us to know that we – I say so now – have the world's best fire brigade with the whole voluntary system. I think other countries are envying us. That's what we see when other disasters occur. We have seen this in the fire disaster in Greece when our forces were called upon, the Red Cross, the other aid organizations. I would also like to thank all of those here – I believe I can do this on behalf of everyone – for this excellent unprecedented and exemplary activity, which is also seen by other countries. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The red light here at the speaker's desk shines, so I come to the end, ladies and gentlemen. Since I'm just talking briefly, I'm just making a two-liner. Mr. Strache is not there, but I broke my head, as I saw in the Federal President's election and in the Burgenland, and I thought so well, he's not on it right now, and he made a two-liner: It's not going around at HC Street. “Waidwund” is the name of the hunter’s language. I hope they'll tell him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14221	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14242	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If one person helps another, then it's a beautiful, a noble thing. It is almost natural for neighbours, for friends it is a duty of friendship, and if we now ratify an agreement between two states, then it is also a very noble and important thing. This is about civil protection. Mr Grossruck has already pointed out: The first step was taken twelve years ago. And I would like to mention one more fact in the history of this Convention, namely: In 2004 – you may remember; some of you may still remember – was a terrible earthquake in northern Morocco, and Austria was asked to help in this context, and Austria has also helped. It has helped with 19 dogs and 35 dog guides who went to Morocco to get there North of Morocco to help, and also very many people could help. That too is to be mentioned. It was the first dog season that was also received here in Parliament – I think it was the Committee on Petitions at the time. At this invitation, the Moroccan ambassador was also present here, and it was a truly worthy meeting between neighboring states, where one helps one another if there is a need in the country if need is to be helped. What is now to be said, in contrast to the year 2004, is that through this State Treaty, bureaucratic obstacles, which have to be taken otherwise, are eliminated so that one can help faster. Whoever helps quickly helps twice. And this is guaranteed by this agreement. What is also a gratifying thing: that we ratify this agreement today.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14285	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Königshofer. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14306	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, we also welcome this agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Morocco, which provides for mutual provision of civil protection facilities in the event of disasters. We know how bad it is when countries are hit by major natural disasters, but also when countries are hit by technical disasters – see the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico at the moment – we can therefore assess the importance of creating a cooperation arrangement here. We liberals have never opposed such an international agreement, so we will agree to this agreement on the exchange of civil protection. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there is still another agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Morocco, which is a so-called readmission agreement for citizens of these countries who commit criminal offences in each other country and are sentenced there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a Tyrolean MP, I can refer to the so-called Moroccan scene in Tyrol and Innsbruck, which the population suffers very much. I quote from an ORF report. There it says: “At present there are approx. 70 Moroccans on the way. The police assume a group of around 250 people who constantly alternate. The so-called Moroccan scene is currently dealing mainly on the railway station, the younger boys are recruited by the big drug bosses in Italy.” Ladies and gentlemen, these are unsustainable conditions! This is where the Austrian Federal Government has to operate. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you or I ask you to enter into negotiations to make an agreement here too. My Innsbruck colleagues know what I'm talking about. Ms. Gisela Wurm knows, Mrs. Mag. Karin Haklweiß, who even two years ago became victims of such a robbery by two Moroccans in the Innsbruck court garden. That is why we welcome this agreement, which we are ratifying here in the House today, but we also call for a further agreement with Morocco, in which a withdrawal obligation of Morocco stands for criminal citizens in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14366	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 586 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:40:32]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 563/A(E) by Mr Werner Herbert, Members of Parliament, on additional plans to combat drug addiction (757 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 870/A(E) by Mr Werner Herbert, colleagues on the creation of the teaching profession of "Police Officials" - introduction of the training model "Police Intern" (758 d.e.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues on temporary reintroduction of border controls (759 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14440	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 6 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Herbert has spoken. 4 minutes speaking time is entered. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14467	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can inform you of two requests or explain them to you. This is, as President Graf has already pointed out, one of the applications concerning the creation of additional sites for the fight against addiction, which are intended to be used for the fight against addiction, and also to ensure that an improved and, above all, sustainable crime is combated in this area. The problem we are currently facing in this area is that, although we can achieve temporary success through the very warm use of our colleagues in executives, due to the lack of human resources, there is no sustainable guarantee that the fight against addiction is effective and in the interests of public protection. On the other hand, I should like to draw your attention to the request for a new training model for police officers, namely the introduction of the training model ‘Police Internant’ – a model already available in the area of the then Federal Police Directorate between 1974 and 1984 – not necessarily a re-invention of the wheel. At that time, this training model was introduced because we had about the same staff problem as at present. For the tasks of the executive, there are too few police officers and this model could ensure that we create the necessary personnel resources on the one hand, but on the other hand can also provide a corresponding impetus for the currently high youth unemployment. For these two reasons alone, I think it is desirable – and probably sensible and necessary – to accept this request. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] Maybe a short explanation: We currently have the future option that by 2020 around 35 percent of all executive officials currently in service will retire. – I do not say that, not the FPÖ, but that says a study by the Federal Chancellor's Office for Public Service, namely all professional sectors. This study was prepared in 2007 and clearly shows that starting from 2014, we will have to fear an extremely high increase in retirement pensions in the field of executives. That's about 10,000 officials who're going to leave us, or 35 percent of those mentioned. With the training model police intern, we could ensure that, in addition to the existing training places – as we know by asking Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, this is supposed to be 1 000 per year, but de facto they will not even cover the retirement leave by 2013 – sufficient staff for the future challenges in the field of public security – for the benefit of the Austrian population, especially in the agglomerations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14518	The next item is the speech by Mr Lettenbichler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14540	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery! High house! Preliminaryly, it can be found that the current applications in the security and police context are in part somewhat contradictory. I can now deal specifically with this. The FPÖ – we have heard it – requires 500 additional sites to combat addiction crime, and I can remind you, Mr Herbert, that, with the implementation of the police reform in July 2005, we have basically declared every official responsible for combating all crime. The creation of 500 additional sites solely to combat addiction crime would contradict this very idea of flexible use of executive officials, i.e. police-technical opposition. We find security-political contradictions in the grounds for the request. Here's – I'm allowed to quote –: The European drug report states that only the smallest part of illegal addiction is actually seized. – I can tell you that in many cases, in agreement with the judiciary, the addiction actually under police control is not guaranteed, but is transferred to the target country – clearly also under control – in the interests of prosecution of the clients or backmen. It is therefore not possible to use the amount of safe drugs as a sole measure of efficient police work. With regard to the BZÖ's request for reintroduction of border controls, I would like to say briefly that cross-border organised crime cannot be effectively combated by purely national measures, but can only be overcome in the closest international cooperation of police units. Already in the run-up to the Schengen enlargement, Austria has strengthened cooperation with the Schengen neighbouring countries and cooperation with the EU Border Protection Agency FRONTEX. Police cooperation centres have been set up with our neighbours and the mixed stripes have been intensified. These measures must continue to be developed and the corresponding negative consequences must be quickly counteracted. In my view, the demand for the introduction of the training model “Police Intern” is a step back to 1974 when a so-called police intern training was started. The figures used in the application as regards human development in the police service and the figures now presented cannot be confirmed for me. In view of the high level of education of police applicants, we are also opposed to the intention to reintroduce these police practitioners. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14582	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14603	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speakers: Someone should misunderstand this by improving the cross-border robber's hunt – either the honourable Member, his group and the Minister or the EU. Because I have an article from the beginning of this year: ‘EU statistics show: Austria is a breaker’s paradise”, Austria’s top priority is compared to all other EU countries. Either all of this is directed against us, against our country – which is called cross-border – the whole crime takes place with us – or I understand something wrong, because otherwise I can't imagine it. I believe – and this is also the difference to what you have said – that we do not want to close the boundaries for all eternity – the proposal, which is very constructive and serious, would be, yet to evaluate whether a temporary reintroduction of complete border controls – temporary, on it I value, I say now for three months – would significantly change something in the crime statistics. I'm just interested. You can't do that with a yes or No answer, and neither do I. It may also be that this is not related at all. I believe only – because of the findings so far and because many experts believe that it is now the open border of one of the essential reasons why we have such a high level of crime – that it would be worth the attempt. We know that it is legal, technical, we know – not later than since the European Championship in 2008, but also when the boundaries were temporarily controlled. One only needs to specify a valid reason – that could be the high crime – then one can perform a temporary border closure and surveillance, and then we look at it. Let's do this for three months, Mrs. Minister! Then we evaluate, and if crime actually decreases significantly, then it was right, and if not, then we were wrong. I would like to comment on this because I believe that we are right – and that we are also in the right with the people for whom this is one... – Look, Mrs. Minister, “Griesenarger over open eastern border, see 62 percent “Invitation for Criminal Touristists”. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date]] This is also an nuisance in the population, not only in the BZÖ, but also in the population, not only in the border area, but also in the agglomerations, but especially in the cities – Vienna, Graz I now highlight – which suffers most under this open border. Take this proposal once, try it! And then we evaluate. I believe that this is a very constructive proposal, in the light of the still high crime that we have already discussed in the morning, and the still unsatisfying reconnaissance rates. I can also say something to the other requests: We shall agree to the requests of the liberals. We think it is right that there should be additional sites for the fight against addiction, and the police practitioner would also be a very interesting tool to carry out additional recruitment. Mr Herbert is absolutely right, we will support that. In fact, we should discuss another request, which unfortunately did not come on the agenda today, but which has a lot to do with these requests. It has been postponed, and let me say something about how serious it is to take announcements from government politicians and ministers. The Minister of Women downward – she is orchestrated by other members of her party – is firmly demanded to finally introduce a ban on Burka in this country, which is also right. There's almost a consensus now. Everyone says: Well, that's what we should look at, that's interesting. We from the BZÖ – Mr Petzner, Mr Grosz and I – have tabled a request in the last Committee on the Interior, in which we ask the government to bring a government template, a law to the House, as a rule of a Burka ban. What happened? - Adjournment! The members of the government have postponed their minister's proposal because it seems that it is not so important. And I wonder how useful it is to work in committee, Mr Pendl, when you and your group say: We're for that, but we need a little time, we want to look at it. There is nothing else we wanted: a resolution by Parliament. Dear Government, Mrs Minister, submit a draft law, let us look at how it is, because there is hardly any dispute in content. But no, you had to delay because the application came from the opposition, from the BZÖ. That's not a good deal with each other in the Committee on the Interior. I hope here for improvement.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14694	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14715	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Westenthaler, I have rather meant that we in the Committee on the Interior – I did not say unanimously because we did not vote in this form – were of the opinion that if two equal applications were in different committees – the word was actually crystal clear to me – that we would then discuss the request on a broad basis in a committee. We have repeatedly said that we will discuss and deal with the proposal in the Constitutional Committee. That's nothing bad. Why you say that I am now pretending to have been against that we are discussing this, I cannot understand because it was not really an argument, even in the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I didn't say that! - Get out of here!]] We have only jointly decided that we should discuss this on a broad basis. Two equal applications in two different committees – I do not think I need to comment, we are all professionals. So much to the point of the Burka ban quoted by you. I would, however, like to say a few words about the individual proposals. You can stand to do what you want. I don't want to start the discussion on the police reform here at all. Mr Herbert! At no time do we have ourselves somewhere, even if we have fought with each other, even if we have tried to help the executive... I can understand all of this. I always had to have when it came to increasing total planning positions, always, but I never used myself here – time of active activity – for the executive in the matter, because: Executive, legislative – I think we were always well advised there. I therefore believe that it is very delicate to interfere in detail with the executive – even though we are in some cases a control body and have budgetary sovereignty here. I am to have for everything, but to say – ex lies –, I want people to come there when we start with it, that is generally very delicate. From the Constitution, I do not want to judge this at all. I would also like to say that we all – or many in this room – believe that the profession of a police officer is a very sensitive, delicate, difficult – psychological and physically more difficult – profession, and that it is always the question of whether it is good for the individual person if he takes such a difficult job at 15 years of age as an intern. We know all of this from the past, there are some interns sitting here. We know that, we can talk together from the point of view of practice and not from the point of view of theory. Almost everyone agreed that it would be better if you started this difficult profession at the age of 18 – even from the psychological and physical stress – instead of 15 years old. In this view – at the time, I believe, there was a broad consensus – nothing has changed. It has even been supported and strengthened. I don't think anyone else is doing anything good, and I think we should rather be on the line that we represented in consensus at the time. Finally, on border surveillance I believe that we are living in a time when many mechanisms of the past are no longer grasping. It's all flexible, technized to go no more. I can only say that if someone believes that we are now – as we all know it – from the good old age, with border beams and control and thus a flexible international crime stop, then he has not recognized the signs of time and the state of development. We should enable executives to continue to strengthen them, to see that they are modernly equipped and set up, to be very flexible, to be able to pull and work across the country – and then we will solve this question in the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14771	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz came to speak. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes, because I'll interrupt for the urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14792	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To Mr Großruck, who is not here right now: Mr. Großruck – pardon, I laugh – the best thing is still H.-C. Bitch. Winning always does only one – only red-black is getting smaller and smaller. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury and Dr. Strutz.]] And that's because the problems are not recognized. This is the problem of security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] I have to say to Mr Lettenbichler and, above all, to Mr Pendl, who is still here in the back, that: It is really shocking which egg dances are listed. Mr Pendl seriously believes that the principles of separation of violence are at risk if Parliament decides that it is to create plans for the executive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] So that's really more than ridiculous! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Lettenbichler stated that, in principle, the professional image of the executive official meant that he had to be able to do everything. – Yes, in principle – the lawyer, Mr. Donnerbauer, will know: If there are principles, then you must immediately rewind the exceptions during a test. Let us now stop the economic crisis or similar things in which speciality is necessary – in drug trafficking, quite different things are necessary to find out. Mr Kößl had already said in one of the previous points of the day what had been the success of making Georgian and Moldovan intruders a thing for us. Yeah, where do they all come from? – But only across our borders, because our Schengen partners at the external borders are not reliable and so some of them are going through. How do these burglars get the visas? Are they coming to Austria as tourists? Are there any Austrian authorities that have granted visas to them? - No! In reality, it is necessary to make the boundaries temporarily safe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need a minister or a minister at the head of the Interior, who makes the legal permit, the actual possibility and that in the situation. It is not enough to do little, to do a little, to do a lot – no, everything has to be done! I'll tell you one thing, too. The population – The light here at the speaker's desk is missing? [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14876	It is still at 3 p.m., Mr. Deputies. One final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14892	It helps the Austrians when they see that the borders are close. They like to wait there because they know something is being done for security at home.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14919	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 4 to 6 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:01:08]] Request for urgent procedure by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection on ‘Stilling in Social Policy’ (5740/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14949	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 5740/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15076	I give Mr Kickl as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15097	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sozialminister, it is nice that you have taken the time to come here today to the High House, that you have been able to get rid of the coalition disputes in which you have been fully suspended in the last days and weeks, and that you will give us the honour here. Unfortunately, we did not succeed last Thursday when a Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was supposed to take place on a date we had agreed together, in which we would have had to debate important things. You can't be quite sure in days like this when we'll have the pleasure of meeting with you next time. So I'm saying, Let us take advantage of it today and discuss some of the things you have – probably not without calculation – been holding back from the House so far. Since you are here today, Mr Sozialminister, I would like to take up, in honour of you, at the beginning of my remarks, a thought which you yourself, on every suitable and much more often, also inappropriate opportunity here in the House. I'm sure you'd do it today if you didn't remodel now. - We'll see. None of your speeches pass without you pointing out that this Austrian federal government in general and you, in particular, in this crisis, which has been the largest ever since the 1930s, do unique things. A few days ago, we heard from your former BAWAG and Bilderberger-Genossen Novotny – who is now no longer guarding the Austrian gold in the National Bank, because the gold is already elsewhere, but is protecting the privileges there – that, despite a slight upward trend, we are still far from above the proverbial mountain with regard to economic growth, but in particular with regard to labour market relevance. However, you are still someone who does not tire out to emphasize that you do unique things in this crisis situation in particular in the international comparison. Yes, that's really it! You have to admit this to you whether it fits you or not – that's unique. In fact, I think that in a European comparison, it is a unique fact that a federal government in general and the competent government ministers in particular do not achieve a legislative effect on two plenary sessions, which have already been shortened from three to two – as usual the reserve day has been deleted, a legislativeity that you have introduced; from this the population learns that the working week in the Austrian Parliament consists of a maximum of two days – to fill even a single minute with agenda items that have any relevance in connection with the largest economic and financial crisis, which, of course, can also become a social crisis. [[Abg. Grosz: From 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.!]] You didn't succeed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is really a unique one, ladies and gentlemen. At a time when this crisis has come to a full end with the people outside, when it is fully hit and the masses of the population are hit – they always feel that they are the patron saint of these parts of the population, of the small people – you do not think it worth considering this House with appropriate requests and initiatives. If we talk about repairing, that's only part of the problem. I do not mention at all that you would spend a minute on pro futuro, into the future, so to speak, on what we expect in further succession – and there things are foreseeable – to take preventive measures, as we call for Freeman to do. It is about the removal of the transitional provisions for the opening of the labour market for the new EU countries in the East. May of next year. We already see that there is a huge tragedy that will affect the Austrian labour market and the Austrian social systems, and you are not making any sense to introduce appropriate protective measures, ladies and gentlemen! In times when, in view of the challenges of this crisis, Parliament would have to have a phase of full employment, you and your coalition partner – you can give your hand – have made it into a phase of short work. But this short work, in contrast to the short work that is out there, of course takes place with full references. You've taken care of that. That is indeed unique. Whether you can be proud of it is written on another sheet. Ladies and gentlemen, because you do not comply with this commitment, we are doing so as a Freedom Party. We fulfil our mission as a social home party to take care of the interests of workers and those who need our social protection. That's why there's this urgent question here and today. - You don't do it yourself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am unfortunately, as far as you and your statements are concerned – and I am probably not the only one – some kind of experience damaged. That is why I honestly tell you that I am far from being able to expect me here and today from the remarks that will then follow, even some thoughtful, verified and insured persons, if you will explain to us how you want to secure pensions in the foreseeable future, what you want to do so that our workers are not under the wheels and protected from the opening of the east. [[Abg. Silhavy: Why do you even ask if you don't expect anything?- Oh, my God!]] I do not expect much when it comes to how comprehensive you will interpret transparency and how the security against poverty continues in this country. Of course, you are not entirely at fault with this development, Minister of State. That would be too much of the honor. But the large part of the blame of this refusal to work meets you. If you organize social policy in some way in coalitional disputes, then bow into Parliament in last-minute actions and then push it through in the Husch-Puff procedure, you must not be surprised that what comes out of you. It is not the fault alone, but it affects you most of the responsibility, because you are the one who unites in his hands the meaningful combination of social policy on the one hand and labour market policy on the other. Ideally, this is a combination of which you have to say that you can do very, very good for your own population. That's the ideal case. But then there's your case. This is the case in which this combination actually contributes to increasing the concerns and needs and damage to the Austrian population from month to month rather than minimizing. I can't spare you this accusation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mr Social Minister, your whole party, the SPÖ, and also the group here in this House, which it represents, have zero credibility when it comes to protecting Austrian workers and, of course, social systems. I'll tell you why: In fact, as with the Tarantel, you – and your group in the same way – jump up when it comes to making overnight out some banks and international speculators who have made their immoral profits and profits at the expense of the vast mass of the population, from the miscarriage in which they have maneuvered themselves. There you stand at the end and jump up like from the tarantel, as it can not go fast enough to organize an event that is basically a huge redistribution from the poor parts of the population to a few super rich, a few speculators and profits. You're with me. You will also be on the front line if you want to dress up these expropriation measures to the large majority of the population as a large package of Greek rescues or as a euro protection. But you do not make a finger crumble, but put your hands in the lap when it comes to the bad effects of the Austrian labour market and social systems in our country in connection with the forthcoming opening of the labour market for the new EU members in the East on 1st. May of next year threaten to prevent. You're holding a social-political siesta and pretending you didn't do anything about it. This is not the struggle against neoliberalism you always talk about, but it is neoliberalism when you act like it. This is contributory – that's what I'd call it. This fits very well into the concept of SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whenever prominent or less prominent comrades have their career in politics and start their actual career, you have to look at where they are doing this actual career. They are then the first to hire in the alleged class enemy and to take up their activities there for millions of years. In view of this, you should ask yourself how far it is with the credibility of a SPÖ at all. Her comrade, Ederer, will now operate the major personnel reduction at Siemens. – I have always thought that these companies that operate internationally are something like the class enemy for you! Comrade Gusenbauer is driving around in the construction industry, in close connection with the banks you have now pulled out of the mister. Comrade Schröder is also such an example if you want to look across the borders. Then there's another one in the Styria, Comrade Voves. He manages the piece of art to practice neoliberalism as a Stiftungs-Voves during his current activity as head of state. That means: They lack credibility in all these areas. This applies to the comrades, which applies to the party, and this also applies to you as a person. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You just have to look back a little bit, Mr Social Minister, to see how absurd your argument is in relation to the opening of the labour market. In October 2008, 203,000 people were unemployed in Austria. At that time, the first signs of the crisis were raised. – I can remind you that it was the automotive industry in which the first problems appeared. Now the famous switch will go into the present and look at us as it looks like in May 2010. In May 2010, 228 000 people were reported unemployed. More than 78,000 people come to these 228,000 people – this is the absolute record now – that you have lost in any training and other hiding patterns, causing people to be frustrated and not to ensure that they will be successfully integrated into the labour market again. If you count this together, it is more than 300,000 people who are unemployed in Austria. So at that time, in October 2008, I think you were still trade union president and – and this is the interesting point – you spoke about the situation in the labour market in connection with the forthcoming opening in the East as follows – I quote the trade union dog torpedo: “... in view of the damp economic prospects, hurry is completely inappropriate when opening the labour market.” – You listen and marvel! That was in 2008. Then you have thrown in your entire trade union residual weight and said – this is again a quote dog torfer –: "We do not know how the labour market develops. It is therefore inappropriate to take a step that can no longer be reversed.” – Well, you hear and marvel! Now the applied socialist logic – perhaps also the logic of government – begins, because it becomes adventurous when comparing the two situations: At that time, in autumn 2008: 203 000 unemployed, dog torfer is ÖGB President. There is no need to hurry because there is a great danger of delay, and there are no steps to be taken that can no longer be reversed. May 2010: more than 300 000 unemployed and no end in sight at Weitem. I should just like to remind you that developments in Hungary are taking on a dimension that should be very, very worrying to all of us. What does the same SPÖ do, of course always in cooperation with the ÖVP? – They are no longer thinking of extending these transitional periods, which were still a problem for them a few years ago, and of extending them indefinitely, as we liberals think. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Go, now stop!]] This is obviously socialist logic – or government logic, you call it as you want. It's about the same nonsense as we know him from the teaching of quantity. You know this example: If two people are in a room and three go out, one has to go back in so that no one is inside. It is precisely this principle that reminds me of what your logic is in relation to the labour market. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this only shows that not only the trade union is registered in the SPÖ, but, of course, the workers are registered as such. You have already extended the transitional periods. You have already heard the warnings of the FPÖ and have said: [[Abg. Oils: Yes, unfortunately!]] Yes, there is something about it if they warn about it!, you have extended the deadlines, and that was useful. We are, of course, more affected by labour immigration than other countries, which is already the result of the geographical proximity to these nations alone. Did anything change in the geographical proximity? - No, it didn't change anything. You have decided to extend the transitional period 2009 at a time when we had fewer unemployed people than today. So I'm asking you: Why should I put it? Not all the levers are in motion and are committed to protecting the interests of Austrian workers, including at international level, even with the inclusion of infringement proceedings in connection with the European Union? You said in May 2009: If we allow foreign labour, then inequality in Austria will increase in terms of income and the risk of unemployment. That was a year ago when we had fewer unemployed people than now. You have to explain to anyone why at the time was right, what is wrong today, with the frameworks still much, much more strengthened. Let's take a look over the border. There is not only unemployment in Austria. There are 340 000 unemployed in Slovakia. All right, all right, all right, all right, The average wage is 721 €, the minimum wage is 307 €, the social benefits are measured from 145 € to 186 € per month. Then keep all of this to your project of minimum security, which you want to introduce with at least €744 next year. I can only tell you something's brewing together. As a Freedom Party, we stand for the greatest possible protection of the interests of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No better is the situation in the Czech Republic: 540 000 unemployed. I say now that the Czech Republic is not so far away that we cannot simply overcome this distance. Hungary has 421,000 unemployed and a large growth rate in the unemployment field because the government's construction projects are out of date. This will create additional competition in the area in which we have the biggest difficulties anyway, namely in the low wage segment. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be said otherwise: In part, this Social Minister is the one who leaves the "Torpedos" against his own social system out of the ministry into the water. This is done by the thinning of the protection provisions, by this strange construction of disinheritance, by the permanent extension of the so-called inadequacy professions, which means that there are almost a majority of inadequacy professions. In any case, we have already done everything we can to thinn the protection provisions, and now we have to do so. It must be clear to you that, given the differences in wages, the differences in income and unemployment in relation to the situation you plan with the minimum guarantee, something can get together and take on the dimensions that you can no longer control. Two years ago, you knew. Now you don't want to know about it anymore. I remember: They themselves were talking about a step that can no longer be reversed. I would also like to say something else about minimum security: It is an essential point that if you are responsible for combating poverty, you do not operate it as one-dimensionally as you do. Then there is the fact that in your one-dimensionality you are also even more bleak. I am not talking about the way in which you want to somehow maneuver the whole thing in this cow trade with the ÖVP around the transparency database and minimum security in Parliament, and then at the last moment without a detailed debate, but which would be necessary, and once again produce a brush. We will then find ourselves more often in order to repair it afterwards; I can guarantee you that now. – No, I am talking about you fully one-dimensionally understanding poverty reduction in such a way that it is about those who do not pursue employment. But it must also be something that must not end in poverty. Performance and distribution justice must be the principle. I do not see any measure by you when it comes to making a corresponding difference between what you plan as a minimum guarantee and a corresponding income. Where are your initiatives? – The union has failed to do so, and the government is failing to do so. Just as one fails in the area of precarious employment. There are thousands of well-qualified people in pitiful working conditions with an ugly social security scheme and an ugly reward, and there is no light in sight at the end of the tunnel! You may also be able to do so in connection with the fight against poverty! I think it would be an important task to take in this aspect of performance justice and not just to focus on establishing a system that, from our point of view, is incredibly abuseable in many, many areas and where we will experience that a few people – like the pensioners – have gone on; They will say that there are few, but it shows the intention behind it – to organize a stay in Austria via a registration paper and then to access this system very hard to the detriment of the Austrian population. Don't believe you can prevent this with your toothless control methods! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ!]] Nor do you believe that the AMS, which is already the water to the neck – you should make it thinkful that those who are in the care of the AMS and are to be mediated from there are the biggest critics of this institution – will now also make it possible to bring the administration of this so-called minimum guarantee over the stage! I say to you that this is a palawatsch that you have congregated, and it will not be better to abstain from the necessary debate with Parliament and the relevant committees in brilliant cooperation with the EIA, ladies and gentlemen. I think you depend much, much more on your own ideologically motivated myths than on a view of reality. One of these myths, of course, is the statement you have repeatedly stressed that immigration brings far more than it costs for social systems. I now call on you to use the debate on the transparency database to finally destabilise in this area and to ensure that it is cost-effective, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign]] It is a command of the hour to let economic reason operate. I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: No matter where you look, your measures to safeguard social security, to reduce privileges and to enhance this security remind me in many areas of the BP managers in the Gulf of Mexico, who are trying to bring golf balls, concrete and a steel bell a source of victory and still fail. [[Abg. Hoefinger:... no end, a closing chapter!]] Their poverty reduction is of the same quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15259	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15280	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We had 212 867 unemployed today. This is almost 17 000 less than in the previous year. [[Abg. Kickl: What forecast do you have for the coming year?]] We had 75,326 training participants this morning. That's about 12,000 less than a year ago. Since 3. In June 2010, there are also fewer jobseekers including trainees than in the previous year – with today's day around 5,000 fewer. Whether you like it or not: We have the lowest number of unemployed at the hour since October 2008 when the crisis began. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The European Statistical Office confirms that only Austria and Malta managed to regain employment growth in the first quarter of 2010. The most recent data from the main association – there you know, because people are insured there – show that we have created 26 000 additional jobs again in this first quarter. It is also the best way of budget recovery by bringing unemployed people into employment by making contributions from beneficiaries. I understand, of course, that the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ will be nervous, because when you ruled – with a better economy, from 2001 to 2006 – there has been an increasing unemployment. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] We have proved how successful labour market and employment policies look. Thanks to our common government policy, we are now a best practice model across Europe. But we are not going to let go, we must not let go, because we must not accept unemployment. It will continue to do everything possible to increase the employment of people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this request, the FPÖ proves once again how to read the concept of dual practice. I can make this a little clear on the example of pensions: Yesterday, the FPÖ senior speaker calls for an end to the panic strike, and today the same party makes the panic rejected by it by threatening the Austrian pensioners with impoverishment. [[Abg. Kickl:... you know how to secure it!]] I should like to draw attention to the example of foreign policy: During the FPÖ government participation, the FPÖ says yes to EU enlargement without If and But and with its jubilation, today it scares the Austrians with the alleged flood of low-cost workers. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you got something wrong!]] I should also like to point this out in the example of poverty reduction: FPÖ acts as a lawyer for the poor, but at the same time is opposed to an activating system of minimum security, which primarily serves to bring people back to work. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, if you do something good out of it!]] Social democracy, on the other hand, stands for a responsible human policy. We comply with international agreements, even laboriously making up for the mistakes made by the FPÖ. We reduce the number of foreign seasonal workers. We fully exploit the transitional periods for the labour market. We are fighting wage and social dumping. We have introduced the social security application before the start of work and also the general entrepreneurship liability on the construction and stand for a sharp examination of the Austrian regulations on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We stand for an integration and foreign policy with a cool head and a human face. We bring those foreigners to Austria, which we need, then treat them valued. Social democracy stands for standard living in the pension through a secure, good, state pension system and the fight against poverty through active labour market policies. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I can now come to the individual questions and answer them. On questions 1, 2 and 9: Austria – I have already done so – when the FPÖ was in the government, concluded the accession agreements, including the planned opening of the labour market, and even celebrated this as a milestone. [[Abg. Kickl:... changed conditions!]] I have always been careful about the effects of labour market policy and have never left this line of caution. You have not taken care of wage and social dumping at all during your government participation, during accession and later on. We were the ones who took care of it and who now labored hard to catch up on what was abandoned at that time. I have extended the transitional periods in April 2009 by the maximum possible two years, and we will also fully exploit the transitional periods for Bulgaria and Romania. In hard negotiations, I had to recapture your failure, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, in the fight against wage and social dumping! [[Abg. Kickl:... you miss!]] According to my plans, it will be hard to check whether workers receive the minimum remuneration they are entitled to in accordance with Austrian rules. In particular, there is a need to close gaps in pay checks for workers posted from abroad. In the event of significant under-remuneration, appropriate administrative penalties should be imposed. Economic benefits from wage and social dumping are to be prevented. This requires improved cooperation within the EU both now and in the future. The opening of the labour market by 1. May 2011 is well prepared. The last novel will be decided here in the National Council in autumn. The previously approved EU labour force are well integrated into our labour market and most of them come from the Federal Republic of Germany. The new authorisation from third countries remains extremely restrictive. Under my responsibility, contrary to the time of the FPÖ government participation, the number of seasonals has gradually declined. The opening of the labour market, which is required by European law, from 1. According to all my scientific estimates, May 2011 is expected to have an additional labour force of between 20 000 and 25 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In this context, I should also like to point out that at the same time 250 000 Austrians work permanently abroad and also as day commuters. [[Abg. Kickl: In Hungary or Poland, or where?]] – Also in Poland, Mr Kickl! Question 3: Because of your hopefully known Federal Ministry Act, it is probably clear to you that I am not responsible for answering this question. Question 4: Also, FPÖ will probably be aware of the division of competence, which is enshrined in the Austrian Constitution, which I do not have the responsibility to answer this question as a member of the Federal Government. Question 5: In my area of responsibility, there are five pension insurance companies, which are responsible for some 3.5 million compulsory insured persons. Some 84 per cent of those insured are subject to the obligation of a carrier of the PVA. Every month, about €2.2 million of pensions are paid by the five carriers, of which about 82 percent of all pensions are paid by the PVA. In addition, I would like to point out that the share of the administrative burden of the PV in 2009 was 1.62 percent. In comparison, the administrative costs of the Austrian private pension scheme are up to ten times higher. There are already extensive cooperations in the administrative area of pension insurance companies. This concerns in particular cooperation in the IT sector, where a joint comprehensive application is currently being worked on for all carriers. The Pension Insurance Institute is already doing the gross and net pension calculation for the farmers' social security institution, for the social insurance institution of the industrial economy and for the railway and mining insurance institution. All synergies are already being used in the calculation of pensions as a very important and extensive part of the PV carrier's task area, and there is very close cooperation between the institutions. On question 6: A total of €30.8 billion of earnings in 2009 amounted to €23.2 billion. The difference of € 7.6 billion was made from federal funds by means of the default liability, the partner benefit in the field of self-employed and by a federal contribution for partial insured persons. However, the federal funds remain constant in the future. In the overall review of statutory pension insurance and civil servants, the funds required by the Federal Government will always remain below 6 percent of GDP, as the official status is increasingly declining. The FPÖ must decide, however, whether it wants to dissuade our safe payroll system due to unnecessary panic. [[Abg. New builder: It's good!]] What do you want? You really? It was only two days ago, Mr Neubauer, that you said in a broadcast that the panic was inappropriate to the pension system. With a federal contribution to the expenses for all statutory pensions of around 22 percent, Austria is well below the Federal contribution of 33.3 percent planned for the introduction of the pension system. [[Abg. Kickl: You should go into other areas once!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You have written down my press release!]] – I just quoted you from your press release. The SPÖ has already decided: I am in favour of securing the first pension column of our payment system. To ensure future financial viability, I do everything possible to keep Austrian workers healthy in working life longer. This is why we are currently preparing a new scheme for long-term insured persons, as well as for measures in the area of disability, incapacity for work and incapacity for work. In autumn, I will present you with the relevant novels. [[Abg. Kickl: After the elections, right?]] I would also like to promote greater contribution justice in the systems. Question 7: Austria has one of the lowest poverty risk rates in the EU comparison. The best protection against poverty is a high quality and well paid job. In order to combat unemployment, we have committed two economic and labour market programmes and three labour market packages in the government, thus securing and creating hundreds of thousands of jobs. Social benefits have also made a significant contribution. The redistribution of the social state reduces the risk of poverty in Austria by more than two thirds. We must continue to strengthen and do so to the activating social state. I should like to give you three examples: The need-oriented minimum security will provide both better social security and a stronger labour market relationship. The better compatibility of family and work, free kindergarten and child benefit will, in any case, improve the occupational integration of both parents, thus reducing the risk of poverty. All measures to improve schools and training opportunities are also crucial, as education protects against poverty. All statistics show that higher education also leads to higher employment opportunities and higher incomes. Poverty has many faces in Austria, but Austria continues its successful path of combating poverty with all its facets. I come to questions 8 and 9: I should like to make one more basic point: The concept of minimum security is not an unemployed basic income, but, like unemployment benefit, it depends on the person concerned trying. [[Abg. Kickl: Explain to the people what circumvention possibilities there are!]] In Austria, we have 150,000 social assistance beneficiaries, who on average do not receive social assistance for more than six to seven months per year. There are 17 000 people in this country – no longer, but also no less – who derive their sole income from social assistance. For comparison with minimum wages employed here: Minimum security will be one third lower on an annual basis. If, for example, the minimum guarantee is compared to the relatively low wage level of a hairdresser in the first year after her training, the minimum insurance net is 45.6 percent lower than that income. [[Abg. Kickl: But a minimum security plus a little black job!]] – If you want all people to work hard, Mr Kickl,...! – You do! [[Abg. Kickl: Not everyone!]] Tell your electorate that you're going to put all of them to work in black! This is your true face! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The major progress of minimum security will be the data-based networking of the social assistance authorities with the AMS. The AMS has no administrative burden with the calculation of the minimum guarantee – none at all! – but the calculation of the minimum guarantee will continue to take place where it takes place today: at the District Head Teams or at the Magistrates. However, for the first time, the social assistance authorities will be able to check whether minimum insurance providers have made sufficient efforts to obtain a job or participate in training and qualification measures. If reasonable work is not accepted by a minimum insurance beneficiary, there is a threat of cuts or even cancellations of the minimum guarantee. The fact that minimum security will be a successful model for reintegration into the labour market shows several model projects that we installed and started very successfully last year. I would also like to say very clearly: You can't change to minimum security according to your wishes. This is simply not possible. Questions 10 to 13: The 15a agreement already signed by all nine national leaders provides that third-country nationals – such as Turkish citizens – must be legally resident in Austria for at least five years in order to be able to obtain minimum or social assistance at all. Asylum seekers have no claim to it. EU citizens are equal to Austrians due to European obligations. This means in particular: You must first use existing assets, accept AMS offers and, of course, also have their proper residence here. Social tourism – i.e. entry to Austria only for the purpose of ensuring the minimum level of security – is impossible. With regard to the review of the assets, the same is true as it is today. The national social assistance authorities shall review this on the basis of various basic book extracts, vehicle registrations et cetera. Since it is the execution of the countries, I cannot answer the question of the administrative burden. Questions 14 and 15: Workable social assistance providers already belong to the client circle of the AMS. In order for the AMS to be able to take greater care of these groups, the AMS will be provided with 85 employees in addition to the 300 employees already taken up last year. On the question 16: On the basis of the strategy report 2011 to 2014, the Federal Government has decided to examine all expenditure positions – including labour market policy – for savings. I will have to take into account labour market priorities such as, of course, minimum security, older unemployed and job-seekers, disabled people and training guarantees. We will therefore, together with the AMS, continue to increase the effectiveness of labour market policies, in particular the selection and management of participants. We will increase the efficiency of labour market policies even more. To this end, I have already set up a project team at expert level, and the proposals put forward will be held at the AMS Management Council meeting on 6 June. It was decided on July. On the question 17: As you know, the need-oriented minimum security project has four essential contents: in the Federal area, as aid for self-help, greater involvement through networking of the social assistance authorities and the AMS, the improvement of emergency aid, the inclusion of current social assistance beneficiaries in health insurance and the introduction of a minimum standard in all federal states for social assistance. There will be a uniform Social Assistance Guide in all federal states, which currently accounts for €558. The implementation of the fourth point requires, of course, an agreement between the federal government and countries, as social assistance is a matter of country. This agreement has already been signed by all nine federal states and is now transposed into national law. On questions 18 to 21, on the allegation of wear: In the last two months, there have been 15 negotiating dates alone on the topic of the database of transparency. Thus, this allegation is self-evident. As you are certainly aware of the media, there is only one open point, namely: I want comprehensive transparency and, in order to achieve this, I want to see as many support and subsidy data as possible from as many local authorities as possible entering the transparency database. As you are certainly aware, I have been a follower of the broadest possible transparency since the beginning, but always on the condition that the data are processed from all relevant areas, which is also foreseen in the meantime. With regard to social benefits, especially the federal government, there is already exemplary transparency. For this reason, of course, I am not opposed to the inclusion of social benefits in the transparency database. As you can come to the idea, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that banking secrecy should also be affected in some way by the transparency database, I am sluggish. [[Abg. Kickl: How do you want to determine the assets?]] Of course, any fears regarding data protection have been taken seriously by all of us and are also taken into account accordingly. If you are talking about mass immigration to Austria at the third point of your urgent request, you would have been told once again: Stop that panic, because it simply doesn't correspond to the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Look at Ireland!]] Rather, the truth is that in the Austrian labour market, with around 3.6 million employees per year, some 35 000 people migrate net, less than 0.5 percent of the Austrian population. [[Abg. New builder: A daughter of the time!]] Half of it due to our EU membership, and of this half again a large part of it from the Federal Republic of Germany. Of the remaining half, of the approximately 17 000 people, 8 000 are here because we bring them – and bring them in. These are scientists, researchers, key workers and so on. Of the remaining 8,000, 5,000 are due to family succession, and 3,000 are given political asylum per year. To these two human rights obligations, protection of family life and protection from political persecution, I stand. I have already told you twice that foreigners in Austria are paying more in our social system than they do in benefits, and I have also written several times on the basis of your parliamentary requests. [[Abg. Kickl: twice wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Fairy fairy tales are often told!]] I hope that you will finally take note that in the case of social benefits in money, foreign citizens pay more in the system than they claim. I know you don't like to hear that, but the foreign workers are net payers in the Austrian system. On the question 22: Because of the Federal Ministry Act, I am also not responsible for answering this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15698	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Neubauer came to speak. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15727	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one had heard what the Minister now gave the best, then I would think that the "Simpl" would have been more suitable for this appearance than the High House, because the people would be so behind the light as it has now happened in this answer to this question, that is incredible! [[Hello call and other calls at the SPÖ]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have all Your social competence at the entrance door of this House! 90 percent of the Upper Austrians fear their social security – and the Federal Minister says it's all right. 90 percent! [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper section up to date.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] 50 years of socialist resort in Upper Austria, Landesrat Ackerl is now active – and 90 percent of people in Upper Austria fear their safety. At 50 years of socialism for me no question: I'm afraid too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Complete nonsense!]] I also have to tell you, because you have spoken so greatly about women's rights today: Upper Austria is the final light in all of Austria on the topic of women. 50 years of socialism make me sure: The equal rights of women is located in Upper Austria far behind, ladies and gentlemen. I should now like to say, in the context of which the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has so well quoted my press service literally, that: It is true that every year again, as at the push of a button, this unworthy, unworthy pension debate is repeated. Hardly did June begin, coming from the Industrial Association, from the Young Economy of the ÖVP and from the self-proclaimed pension experts suddenly the good calls, why all this does not go in Austria and why one cannot afford the pension system. I can tell you the following exhilaratingly: The SPÖ fell by the hacker rule. The SPÖ has promised voters before the election, the hacker rule remains – and the first thing that has fallen was the hacker rule. In 2013, she was carried to the grave. Nor do we necessarily have great pleasure with all the points of the hacker scheme, but we want a hacker scheme to be covered in the future by the heavy work for pensions. That would be a social approach, ladies and gentlemen – and not just going here and saying that we can do this! Or in the event of invalidity pension: We hear that the number has increased so badly, and that can no longer be afforded in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Silhavy, you have failed so much as a minister; that you can even open your mouth here is grotesk! That's really grotesque! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You were one of the biggest damage to our Republic with the work you have not done! The number of invalidity pensions has fallen, and the pension grant, which has risen to 4.3 billion, has a coverage of 92 percent, ladies and gentlemen. That is what is being achieved, and that is, of course, the case. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberals are therefore calling for the pensioner price index for the adjustment of pensions, just as the Pensioners Council has decided. The seniors, the pensioners are not alms and not bitters! To them you want to degradate them – we certainly don't. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, the Social Democrats have no problem at all with the fact that in the protected area, namely the ÖBB, more than 6 billion a year will be shot, that €618 million will be speculated and that, as the Court of Auditors notes, €11 billion could be saved with administrative reform. If you, Minister of the State of Hundstorfer, attack my colleague, Kickl, because he's talking about black work, I can tell you: The University of Linz, in particular Professor of University Dr. Schneider, has found that the Austrian economy alone escapes €21 billion in this year, just because you are not able to fight the black work in Austria properly! That's the reality: The black market is never flourishing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Trucks can be collected from the people in Vienna because they stand around and only wait for the blackwork. Just, you don't see her! You don't see her! Everyone sees them, only you don't see them! I like Mr. Vice-Chanceller Pröll better. This has at least recognized the problem and wants to counter it now. Yes, that's something, that's a hope! – You are not hopeful, Minister of State, you just want to cover everything! That's incredible. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Leitl, now comes and thinks that we have to work four years longer, then we can afford the pensions again. I tell you how these four years come about: In 1970, the age of entry into work was 19 years. Now we have a career age of 23 years. That's exactly those four years! And how do we get to these four years? Because the universities, as far as the possible age of entry in the profession is concerned, are such a mess and the students do not at all have the opportunity to finish earlier. Finally change the conditions, do your homework, then we'll pick up these four years and don't need to work until we're 70! 45 years must be enough, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be that we're one of the richest countries in the world, but we're supposed to work up to 70 years! Finally, do your social tasks, or you will get the bill presented by the voters! In any case, we liberals confess to the generation contract, we confess to the seniors, to our generation of seniors, because what they have done is really a success story. We liberals confess to the right of opportunity for young people, ladies and gentlemen. We are a socially just home party, and we confess to that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15854	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15877	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we have just experienced has been a spectacle of a special kind. Mr Kickl first made himself and said in the context of the justification of his urgent question: I'm not expecting a proper answer anyway. [[Abg. Kickl: I've been confirmed!]] On this basis, the Minister of State gives a long, detailed and well-founded answer based on figures, facts and data. And then the Lord Newman comes and says he appears as if he were in the Simpl. This is a Kasperl Theatre, what you're doing, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! This has nothing to do with serious politics! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I personally have read the urgent request several times and have not really been able to find out what you really want. [[Abg. Kickl: I can imagine that!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I tell you, this urgent request is a single big contradiction. They complain that more and more people are at risk of poverty, at the same time you find the central benefits of our social system too expensive. They do not propose anything better to combat poverty effectively, but at the same time they propose social reduction. And if you propose social reduction, then we know how it looks, because you have already shown it in the past when you were in the government. We all remember this very well: They were the Social Degradation Party in that government at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do bad things that have proved to be successful for decades, such as our pay-back-financed pension system, and they do not even make a completed performance such as the minimum guarantee mediocre. And that's bad from my point of view. Your request is only logical in one point: It's like everything that comes from you through and through xenophob. You don't want solutions, you care for enemy images, you want to split society. We are not available for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We want to protect the Austrians, simply!]] Mr. Kickl, quite honestly, it's going to slow down. Stop leading outrages against the evil foreigners! Stop being against everything! Tell me what you're for! Tell me how you want to fight poverty in Austria! [[Abg. Kickl: How about extending the transitional period?]] - I'll go in on it. They suggest that Austria should launch an initiative on its own to extend the transitional periods. I don't think you have so little idea of the EU, I think you're trying to sell people for stupid. That's the point. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't you think we're gonna find some allies there?]] Whether you like it or not, we have exploited all the transitional possibilities it has provided. After seven years and the maximum use of these transitional periods, these are finally over. This is May 2011 for ten countries that joined in 2004 and early 2014 for Bulgaria and Romania. [[Abg. Kickl: That from a trade unionist's mouth!]] And it is not in the hands of the Austrian Federal Government to establish a further extension. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is this good or bad?]] From this point on, workers from these countries will be subject to the same rules as all other workers from the Member States of the European Union. This is applicable EU law. Tell the people honestly that the implementation of your proposal would be an intentional breach! It's nothing else! This would result in infringement proceedings that would result in criminal payments, and I don't really think you want to, and I don't think you know that either. [[Abg. Kickl: What's going on with the euro?]] I give you the advice, deal with reality, let the senseless anti-foreign yell! And if you really want to help with a gentle landing at the opening of the labour market, then you support the objective of sufficient resources for an active labour market policy, then you support measures for further economic impulses, then you support all measures against wage and social dumping and efficient measures and control to combat illegal employment and social fraud! You think the minimum level of protection is too high and you can create too little work incentives. I can't imagine you didn't look at this. I can only imagine that you are using the minimum guarantee again to pretend that this is a gift of money and that it is not one of the most important and central measures to combat poverty in Austria. Minimum security is an important social security measure, a basic guarantee which is still well below the poverty limit of approximately €900. [[Abg. Kickl: It is all the more sad that she looks the way she looks!]] In order for a person to receive €744 twelve times a year, he must keep himself at the disposal of the AMS and accept any assigned job that is above the level of lowliness. If he does not, he must expect appropriate sanctions. It must have exhausted the entire assets, the savings books dissolved, the car sold. [[Abg. Kickl: And how's the bank secret?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: But there the Minister said something else!]] He may retain the home, but must accept that the Authority will enter the basic book after six months. All this you know, all this is known – but you always pretend not to be, and try to spread sand into the eyes of people. Please note: The minimum level of security is an important social policy step, and we will not let you shoot us together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A final sentence on pensions. I think you should also consider the way in which you argue against our statutory pension insurance, against our pension system, and consider whether you are not making any advance, which would like to distract from the other issues that need to be discussed now, namely the distribution debate and the question of who is paying the bill for the crisis. At the moment we experience that someone speaks every day and explains that the pensions are not eligible for funding. This is a discussion that is supposed to lead astray, and with such requests as yours you contribute to the fact that this misleading actually succeeds. The urgent one is from my point of view a pipe recorder, it won't cause you to get rid of the loser image.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16082	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. 9 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Social is what creates work!, this is a statement that we know here in Parliament only too well from the Federal Chancellor other than Wolfgang Schüssel, and this is true in times like this every day. Employment is the best and most effective means of combating poverty. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Payed employment!]] The Federal Government and also here in Parliament, most often even with unanimous decisions, have decided to highlight numerous measures in this direction – especially the labour market and economic packages – and they also show their impact. A total of €3.8 billion was made available for the economic packages, more than 570 million for the two labour market packages, a tax reform of around €3.2 billion – all of this helps to keep people in employment, to keep unemployment as low as possible. This is also confirmed by the latest figures, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer called her: 212,000 people are currently unemployed. Every unemployed person is too much, because unemployment means hopelessness, especially when it comes to young people, not a question at all, but at times like these to reduce the rate of unemployment, it needs a effort to do something here in Parliament and with the help of the federal states. This must be mentioned in a debate dealing with the social sector and the labour market. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Minus 17 000 unemployed, minus 12,000 training participants, which means that the path leads in the right direction. This is also seen in the European comparison: Austria is second with an unemployment rate of around 4.9% – the May data – and the EU-27 has an unemployment rate of around 9.7 percent. We are in second place, as has been said, and this is also constantly happening, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is second behind the Netherlands. This also does not come about, but it really stands behind measures that make it possible. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Look Get to Spain, ladies and gentlemen! There are countless Member States of the European Union with an unemployment rate of 10 percent, 12 percent, 14 percent, but Spain has one of almost 20 percent. I do not want to know, Mr Kickl, how you would behave in this case when you asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for a proper urgent question. You should also leave the church in the village, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Surely it is your job as an opposition party to question matters critically, no question at all – that is what you do anyway, Mr Kickl, I know you from the committees – but you should also recognise that this Federal Government has taken the right measures and that we have acted in Parliament. The figures are very clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This path must continue. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has also announced this, and we from the Austrian People's Party will actively support him there. [[Abg. Kickl: It didn't look like that!]] The second aspect I would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, is: Social is to help people who want to help themselves but cannot do it – for whatever reason, whether unemployment is the background or whatever the reason. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I can only tell you, and those mandates who have not yet read the Social Report would give me the heart to do this in the next few days and weeks: Austria is a social state, ladies and gentlemen! We have a social ratio of around 29 percent. We spend over 30 billion on work, social services and family benefits. We are top in European comparison when we look at our family benefits, also through the further development of child care, the compatibility of family and work. Let us make comparisons with other European countries: We are really very, very good on the road! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also responded to the signs of time in recent years. It is not true that there would have been nothing going on in these areas or that no decisions had been taken which were, of course, necessary and adapted to the situation of women, the population, the young families. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, the EIA is committed to introducing a need-oriented minimum guarantee, but only – and this is our basic condition – with the simultaneous introduction of a transparency database. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to explain to you why this is so important to us by the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] Mr Oellinger, listen to what I am still saying, then you can let your criticism take place. – This is also agreed with the SPÖ, with our coalition partner, at government level, there have also been countless discussions recently on both chapters, on the one hand on the need-oriented minimum security, on the other through the transparency database. We're on it, too. But it is not only about distribution justice, it is also about performance justice. Yes, to a social security for those they need! But we also want to look at those, ladies and gentlemen, who are trying to take advantage of our social system. Some do not do this in an evil way, there are also double-tracks, that is no question at all. [[Abg. Oils: Scheuch!]] It not only pays the federal government these transfers, it also pays the countries and, in part, the municipalities. That is why, in our view, it is necessary to introduce a database of transparency, especially in times like this, in order to avoid abuse, to eliminate double-tracking. Because not socially, ladies and gentlemen, is helping people who could help themselves but do not want it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We must take note of this, including such citizens in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: The Sheep!]] We cannot stand for that, ladies and gentlemen. The tax pots are filled by the service providers, by those people, by the 3.6 million persons who work daily and pay their taxes and taxes, and not even too little, Mr Oillinger. We have a very high tax and tax rate, so that we can do this social system, these top family benefits at the end of the day. That is why we are saying yes to a social security scheme, but it is also essential to establish the 'yes' in parallel with the transparency database. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is our position, and this is irrevocable, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, the negotiations will also lead to a goal. [[Abg. Oillinger: But to what kind of a person!]] The aim is to quickly re-integrate people with minimum security into the labour market. The minimum level of security should not only ensure social security for people, but we want to integrate them into the labour market as soon as possible. That is why the approach to a stronger link with the AMS, to the labour market is certainly a right approach, ladies and gentlemen. However, the ÖVP also understands those people who are critical of the minimum guarantee. Believe me, I'm a regional member... – Yes, colleague Oellinger, maybe you should go back to the Inn district again; earlier you used to be in Braunau. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] It wouldn't hurt you to visit a tribal table or a fire brigade there, because people come to you as a regional politician and ask why do you introduce the minimum security, especially in times like this? [[Abg. Rädler: Not with him!]] With the answer: We need a harmonisation of social assistance in the federal states and a stronger relationship to the labour market so that people can live in the hope of becoming more integrated into the labour market! – that is the objective of this minimum guarantee – one can certainly explain that. If one connects this with the must for a database of transparency – I have already done it – then the population understands it. Minimum security and transparency data base are interconnected and also included in one. That is what the population is expecting, which is why this can only be decided as a unit. I would like to address another chapter. [[The red light at the speaker's desk shows that the speaking time has almost expired.]] Madam President, were these 9 minutes now? That would surprise me, but okay. A word about pensions, ladies and gentlemen, because I already believe that even if – even though not quite so young – the younger generation is still members of that generation that it is necessary to take action here. The expenditure is rising, we know, although not percentage of GDP, but the media reports of the last few days, I think, point out very specifically how it really is about our pension system. That is why I am of the opinion, Mr President, Mr Hundstorfer, that there will be a package in autumn, that it is necessary to present the heavy-worker pension, the disability pension, also the long-term insurance scheme in a package, but, Mr. Federal Minister, I can only appeal to you, not only to include these systems in the package, but above all to the privileged systems that allow someone with 52, with 54, to retire at 56 years. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This is unfair and unfair, and this must be taken into account in a pension package. That's why I'm looking for you. The Austrian People's Party has you on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16290	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the I'll set the clock up for the whole 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16311	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been torn back and forth: Should I deal first and foremost with Mr Kickl, with Mr Wöginger or with what the Federal Government is presenting on the subject of safeguarding against poverty, or is everything going on? It'll be difficult, I'll try. Mr Kickl, of course, I was pleased to hear that FPÖ is thinking about the social issue or the fight against poverty. Then I thought and thought: What will the FPÖ say about this? Why does the FPÖ challenge the Federal Minister, the Federal Government, to have failed in the fight against poverty, to have the minimum guarantee not yet introduced, if, as I have seen in recent days as a member of the Committee, it was not exactly eager to find an appointment for the Committee, or – let us say it quite openly! – has prevented a session before this plenary session? – Interesting. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it?]] I would have been surprised if the FPÖ had discovered its love for minimum security, because I have read – and there is nothing to hide – that it is against the minimum guarantee. [[Abg. Kickl: In this variant!]] Interesting. They are against the minimum guarantee, but they accuse the party responsible in the Federal Government that they do not implement it in good time. [[Abg. Kickl: No,...!]] Interesting, because you are the party that has prevented the timely implementation of the minimum guarantee together with the government parties – that must be said –! That's no longer funny, Mr. Kickl. But let's deal with what else you've mentioned in your emergency! If you read it through and you also listened to what you said today, you get a result: extend transitional periods, and everything will be fine again. If there are major differences between social benefits such as minimum insurance and an income, creating an income, then everything is good. And thirdly, and I think that's something special: You and Mr Wöginger are obviously the only ones in this Republic who still believe that this transfer database really creates transparency. Mr Kickl, believe that She's not herself! There is nothing more transparent than this transfer database. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's the problem. We would be in favour of greater transparency, and I shall come to the example with which I have tried to answer my colleague Mr Wöginger. Let us take an interesting example from the state of Carinthia: the brothers Scheuch, who is one of the heads of state, the other Klubobmann. They are both farmers, farmers, both of them, as we now know – thank God they are – from the EU agricultural database, income promotions as farmers. Both! The Uwe and Kurt Scheuch receive income promotions as farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Mr. Prince, I would like to tell you something if you are already intervening: Mr Kurt Scheuch, his sign Klubobmann in the Carinthian Landtag – listen to me! –, refers to an increased relationship as a clubman because he says he has no income otherwise. [[New calls of the Agg. Prince]] Interesting! Scheuch, to read in the agricultural database, collects funding, i.e. income. [[Abg. Linder: This is in line with the law, Mr Oillinger!]] If I read on the website of the Kärntner state government, I know he's referring a Gage as a clubman. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Linder.]] There is a regulation in Carinthia, according to which you get either a lower salary than a clubman, if you have an additional income, or if you are entitled to a higher salary. This second variant... – Speeches [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Linder.]] Not so much, ask colleagues Scheuch! Talk to him! In view of that, I would like to say: Yes, I would be very much in favour of creating transparency. And let's start where it's important, where it obviously smells the most: in Carinthia with the politicians or with the party promotions! Let us create absolute transparency there! I absolutely agree with that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Test You do not ask me or anyone else to explain to me in Austria that transparency would be given if Mr Pröll or all the members of the Federal Government knew what Mr Kickl, Mr Oellinger or anyone else in this Republic deserved and what kind of support they received. Then the other citizens of the Republic still do not know what Mr Kickl, Mr Oellinger, or anyone else in the Republic receive income. This should apply to all and be transparent for all. Let us begin with the politicians and with the parties, then let us see how much transparency is indeed in the individual parties! I would like to point out that transparency in the EIA is against zero when it really comes to transparency. The second party, which has reason enough to reduce transparency to zero, is obviously the Carinthian liberals. [[Abg. Jury: The Greens!]] When I look at what conditions exist there, I really believe that they can't be interested in transparency at all. I'll close and say again: Kurt and Uwe Scheuch. Look You are the two rulers representing your party in Carinthia, and you know interest in transparency is not given there! This also applies to the address of Mr Wöginger and Mr Kickl, who believe that what is going on between the members of the Federal Government on this issue really has something to do with transparency. Think back to the beginning of the debate! Do you know what was passed around among the scientists – even at the survey, you were there – what was said there? – The benefits of federal, state and local authorities must be compared together. This is because the countries and the communities are not involved. Even if you put everything together, only Mr Pröll, or the Minister of Social Affairs, knows what Mr Kickl deserves. But the rest of Austria's citizens do not know. – And that’s where you say that’s transparency, that creates transparency!? - No, I'm sure not! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So when we talk about transparency, we start the debate where it deserves to be started – with the politicians who want transparency among citizens, but refuse it for themselves, and with the parties. Let's start there, and then we'll clear up the rest! [[Abg. Kickl: Please!]] No problem. But now on the real issue, on minimum security, or on what you propose, Mr Kickl! We have already held the debate a few times. Thank God you have forgotten today, or you have also thought of quoting Mr. Sinn, who is supposed to have said that foreigners receive very high social benefits, much more social benefits than they pay. Mr. Sinn is not my friend, but he corrected it and explained it once again when we wrote it to him. He sees this completely different from you. - That's one. The other, Mr Kickl, is the transitional period. They are a good example of this – and this is also true of the address of the Minister of Social Affairs, who has supported these transitional periods – as one should not do. There are two areas within the entire transitional regulation in which there is a very clear protection, namely construction and construction industries and the care sector. These are the areas where no one from the new enlargement countries can work at all. These are the areas where we have the biggest wage discrepancies. You know why? - Because people all work black! We know this from the nursing department. In recent years, we have had a debate or tried to use a legalisation model from the Federal Government, which also guarantees very low wages, but compared to what was paid before, it is even better. In the second sector, construction and construction sectors, wages have fallen in the official sector, because there is so much black work and because, unlike what was necessary, not the same conditions were created for all, but two completely different systems: the official system and the unofficial intrude, the individual companies or the other companies with which the Austrian labour market is tried to undermine. If you had listened to us and put in the same Rules of Procedure for everyone in these areas, then we would not have these problems, especially in these sectors, where it is most forbidden to employ anyone from the enlargement countries. You didn't hear. They believe that the extension to 2009, to 2011 is a help. – It’s not help, and 2011, I’m right, now, in the crisis, when the transitional regulation ceases – and it must stop, you all know – is certainly the worst time to create equality for all. But thank God you can do something to prepare this equality. You should cooperate in this rather than resort to a senseless disputation which in no way can lead to any productive forwarding strategy in the social field.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16469	I announce that Mr. Klubobmann Heinz-Christian Stracheeven was reported sick for the rest of the session. [[Call: What's he got?]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Flu!]] [[Further calls.]] Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. I put the clock on desired 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16520	Madam President. Federal Minister! Before, Mr Oellinger, I ask myself: How can we prevent a committee appointment if there is no agreement? There is no agenda, so I cannot prevent any committee either. I just wanted to say that in advance. In general, however, I would like to say that the issue of the current urgent nature of the FPÖ, 'Stilling in Social Policy', I believe, can be extended to the entire government team: Standstill in the coalition, standstill in politics. The coalition rests – in the truest sense of the word – sometimes a little interrupted by dispute when it comes to the junkimation of minimum security against or for transfer account. Different signals are often set. Chancellors and vice chancellors agree that we all have no cause for concern, however limited: as far as the mood in the coalition is concerned. The Federal Minister for Social Affairs says: Well, the situation with regard to pensions is serious, but not hopeless, at best he has a little headache. And some ÖVP members already see a collapse coming. The condition of the coalition is, on the one hand, a standstill and, on the other hand, a different perception. This spectacle, which we have been offered for weeks, is actually an expression for the citizens in times like these, where one expects a government to be capable of action, without hesitation and sluggish, to do the things that are necessary, and not wait until different country elections are over, and then leave the cat out of the bag. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This sluggishness and hesitation, of course, also paralyzes parliamentary work, and important concerns remain on the track. The best example is the Committee: The first Committee this year had only been moved in May, and now it has been postponed. We delay, appointments are cancelled, and opposition applications rest in any drawers. And I say again: In times such as those where it is so necessary to define clear rules of play and clear criteria in order to get a grip on the high budget debt, where we have a social system that we should in principle be proud of – and I am one who does not misrepresent the social system we have; we have a good social system – we must, precisely because we have a good social system, set the course for the future much faster, for a system that is more sustainable and, above all, more financially and just. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The pensions that have provided a lot of discussions in the last few days are, of course, a typical example of leaving people in great uncertainty. Because we all know the figures, the facts and the facts, because we don't need any more surveys, because we don't need any more studies: We know that life expectancy is increasing, and we know that everyone will be in retirement longer in the future, and we also know that already in 2014 three contributors must receive two pensioners. If you say, Mr Federal Minister, that the federal subsidies remain constant, I cannot fully understand that. They may not rise at this blatant height, as some experts say, but the federal subsidies will rise, that is quite clear. If you are always teasing the black-blue and then black-orange government and saying, there was – I know – “social reduction” and so on, I must say: We created a good basis in 2004 with the pension reform. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] We have laid the right foundation for ensuring that the pension is safe in the future. Now nothing happens at all! At the time, 2007, the SPÖ said: Now we have to eliminate the social cold again, now we have to repair everything again. I'm asking: What did you repair? – Nothing you have repaired except that you cancel the hacker control now. In the case of invalidity pension, there is no regulation yet, and as regards the abolition of the National Bank's privileges, for example: It's true, you have no jurisdiction, but I still expect a Social Minister to raise at least his voice and say: This is an injustice toward the others. – I expect that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They did not do anything about the heavy-worker regulation either. I can remember how much the Social Democrats have been reproached about the 2006/2007 heavy-worker regime. To date, it exists – nothing is changed. So there are no visible reforms. But I'm not one who says you should just cheat, but we have ideas. We from BZÖ have brought in an idea: We have brought in the idea of our transparent pension account, a pension account that was originally planned in 2004 and has not been implemented, the establishment of a pension account, where you can currently check the contributions paid, has an overview and see: How do the contributions pay, do they correspond to the evolution of the wage sum?, and one can also choose his retirement age freely within the framework of this pension account, with a certain basis of insurance years. But it is important that we get rid of this unfortunate link of insurance years to retirement age. It is therefore a very flexible access, and what is particularly important to me is that times such as child rearing, care or even heavy working hours are especially taken into account and taken into account. That is an idea, that is an offer – you could implement it, and here there is also a request in Parliament. But, as has already been said, All applications rest. The second point: Combating poverty. It has already been said a lot today, and I am with all those who have clearly signaled today that the best fight against poverty is that people have work, a job that they can live on. That is, work has to pay off – for young people, but also for older people. The fact that the unemployment rate is also a little lower in young people is positive, but in the elderly they have risen very much, and here I am missing the answer to it. We are skeptical of minimum security. It is a harmonization of social assistance. As the minimum security now looks, and we are going to discuss even more closely, the incentives to take up employment seem not to be very large, and it is also very vaguely formulated the rapid integration into the labour market again. Here, too, I wonder: How does that work? Even if you say, Minister, that between minimum and minimum wage, 45 percent are with a hairdresser: I don't believe this, I'm telling you quite honestly. It's not like that. Most of the time it is also in the retail trade, with a seller about, 80 to 100 € difference, and then you already ask yourself: Why work when it's different? It's unclear for me, too. You have spoken today of, I think, about 170 000 and 17 000 social assistance workers. You'll see how many they really are. I remember the statement of your predecessor, who spoke of 400 000. Here too, we have an offer from the BZÖ with a so-called citizen's money. We say: If there is a service from the state for those who need it – and everyone can get into an emergency – then one must return a service to the state as well. And this achievement could be, for example, a service for the general public, in the sense of voluntary service, in the sense of volunteering. That would be fair and fair. For us, minimum security is certainly not a means of miracle, not a miracle instrument against poverty. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that in Parliament's work on important issues, we are actually very far from solutions. We need to turn on many, many screws to keep the social system in shape for the future. Therefore, the following social policy measures are quite important for us from the BZÖ: Performance and work must pay off. The social network must be connected in such a way that those who need help receive it, but not all who want help. From our point of view, special attention should be paid to families, but also to people with disabilities. In the BZÖ social policy, we want to make a very efficient use of the transfer services so that they can also arrive where they are necessary in those whom they need. And what's also very important – I know you're not responsible, you're not Minister of Health: We quickly need a reform of a health system, which also integrates care and care. We also need maximum flexible access to pensions – in time, honest and true, as well as without hesitations and fences, so that Parliament's work can go on constructively again.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16659	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16681	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! “The most sleek politics is currently making the trees on the edge of the forest!”, this saying gave me a citizen at an election campaign by us liberals in Vienna yesterday – and unfortunately he is right when we look at what standstill is now not only in the social resort but in the entire federal government. We've heard about it today. Committees are being postponed, no government documents are being presented – there is a need for this assessment. In the social and health sectors, we have enough problems: Problems in the field of hospital financing, social security problems, as well as the issue of minimum security and thus also the establishment of a transparency database required by the ÖVP. We hear from all these things that they are to happen; but de facto we are only informed about it from the newspapers – and we are here more or less donated to short work. This is a real meaning for the population, as my previous speaker noted. If it happens – as happened yesterday in the Council of Ministers – that a bill is launched, such as a one-year delay in the medical law, then it will not take five minutes for one of the parties to the press to announce a challenge of the same, as happened yesterday from parts of the Economic Union. I wonder how laws are currently being planned in the government. At the moment, it is already the case that the social partners are taking control of the issue, which is what it looks like at present. It is hardly a day when Mr Leitl does not appear on television or in newspapers, gives the government work orders and tells us how this It would be much better to manage. Mr Leitl is – so that I will not be misunderstood – a very honorable person and a friendly politician, but nevertheless it should be – and there I am entirely at the former Chancellor Schüssel: The laws have to be made here in Parliament and not outside the Chambers of Social Affairs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, Minister Hundstorfer, you already have to make our criticism, because you already have to do the work yourself – and it is simply not enough to have unclear, superficial knowledge of the right path, but you have to go the way yourself, and you also have to know the difficulties. If you don't move forward, stay back! One often has the impression that you believe from the government that you can get back to the top during the break. We do not believe this, and all that is not on the table here unfortunately confirms our assessment. With regard to social policy in our country, which we are discussing here today, I am certainly not telling you anything new if I tell you that the market is efficient, but not fair, that the market is blind on a social eye. That is why capitalism, as we know it, needs compensation through a social system and a redistributive state. The happy one is taken and the pickpockets are given!, at least the theory is. Now, however, for an example, which shows the whole absurdity of the misguided system. When I look at a statistics: Take, for example, the total amount of money that is currently spent on social systems, on programmes to combat poverty, and share it with the vastly exaggerated number of people who are considered statistically poor. You will then receive a sum about one and a half to two times the average income in our country. If all of this money were to go to the so-called poor, there would be no longer any poor, because these would then be among the stakeholders of higher and medium incomes. That means in good German: There's something wrong with the redistribution and craftsmanship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the efficiency losses of the redistribution are not only those to whom something is taken away for the benefit of others, but also those to whom the State grants its resources, for to the extent that people receive money, they do what is necessary to fulfil the conditions for the preservation of the money: If they get money for working, they work when they get money for not working, they don't work. Unfortunately, the constructors of our social system have forgotten this simple fact. That is why the demand has been raised: We agree with the EIA in certain parts of the transparency database. The transparency database, including the social, economic and, above all, agriculture, is a useful instrument for creating promotion justice and the fight against abuse. However: Performance must pay off. Distribution justice can only exist if there is the transparency account. It is not until then that a minimum guarantee should be discussed. At the moment, it is not possible in Austria to obtain, at the touch of a button, information on the payments made by the federal, state and local authorities in the social field. We liberals want to help the needy, but not the Find. The one who works should have more than the one who does not work. Everything else would be socialism – and where it leads, unfortunately, we have seen in history.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16790	Mr Muchich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16811	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! If I have heard the statements made by Members of the FPÖ or the BZÖ, I can only say that I think I am sitting in the wrong house. They talk about FPÖ and BZÖ social failure, but they were exactly those who, during the time of your government responsibility, carried out a special social reduction. They talk of FPÖ and BZÖ about the fight against black work, but they were the ones who allowed the social reduction and, above all, the black work, by allowing a record of seasonal kidneys and by making it much easier for individual entrepreneurs to go into self-employment, so that dubious companies have grown out of the ground, so to speak, like Swammerln. You talk about FPÖ and BZÖ talking about higher pensions, but never before have the pensions been increased as little as under your government responsibility. - So much for clarification. Col. Neubauer, you're talking about success story in your time of government, and I have to say: Unfortunately, no, because it was actually an exploitation story like never before. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is about the year 2010, colleague!]] What bothers me a little bit is that here in the high house good things are always trying to do bad, and now I have to deal with three things where I say: This has helped Austria, the employees and companies in our country, and there were also FPÖ and BZÖ involved in all three measures and voted in favour. That's why I'm always bothered by trying to dissuade this. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to mention the application before the start of work. 3.39 million people are employed in our country, a falling unemployment rate – and yet everything is mistreated by your side. For the client liability: It was God thanks to our Federal Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer, who put the client's liability for the construction industry into effect early in September 2009 – and we see: The trend is a very, very positive one. More than 15,000 construction companies have been reported on this HFU list, have a “white vest” – under quotation marks – and all those who do not manage to prove this need to deposit 20 percent of the labour wage at the service center at which Wiener CKK, for example. Today, it is €156 million that have been deposited in social security contributions. The third party, including a five-party application, all five parties have agreed that the building workers' holiday and handling fund may carry out more control measures. In the months 1 to 4, that is, January to April 2010, since it was in force, it is a success that 560 construction sites have been reviewed in seven federal states, with more than 2,000 workers being reported wrong or not at all. – It was also a request supported by all parties. This is the positive, and of course there have been intermediate benefits to the freedom of employment, starting with 1. May 2011 to be prepared. If all of this is not sufficient, we must try together to carry out further measures and evaluations in order to possibly create more control facilities. On the big issue of how to secure our social system or what is necessary – Mr. Neugebauer has already said it in an interview, we do it again and again –: 1 billion € in contributions, the entrepreneurs owe the local health phone. 1 billion euros! If an employee, a hackler, has any residue, then immediate action will be taken: plowed and executed. Not in these areas. So there is a great need for action here. The second most important way – it already shines – is to boost the economy. Then: Debt reduction can also be achieved by boosting the economy. I'll say it again and again: If we create employment, boost our economy, then we must not rely only on economic growth through exports. We must also try to achieve this domestic growth in order to increase our purchasing power. Therefore, intelligent investments – in our environment, in education infrastructures, in transport infrastructures, in quiet and healthy homes and in renewable energies – are very important even in difficult times. That is where we should focus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16878	Mrs Hellerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16899	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, the Federal Government is setting out measures that are taking place. As many people as possible are kept in employment, particularly in labour market and economic difficult times. This is a labour market policy that can be seen. Nevertheless, every unemployed person is too much. Now, we are working together on a needs-oriented minimum security and on the implementation of the transfer account. Both are linked. This is also agreed within the coalition partners, and it will remain. Of course, countries and municipalities must be brought into the boat, opposition by individual states cannot be accepted, which would call into question the whole system. My group has made a clear commitment. We want to offer the help and support they really need. But we also want fairness for taxpayers who finance with their performance of this system. As far as minimum security is concerned, I am somewhat concerned about the situation of women. Today we discussed women in the economy and the labour market. On average, women earn less than their male colleagues, and they have a family and a job to put into a hat. Granted, this is not always easy. Many women opt for part-time work for a variety of reasons and have relatively low incomes. Recently, a bus operator has pointed out that he has employed women, including single earners, who have family work to do, especially school transport. He pointed out that if there is a need-oriented minimum guarantee, these women may no longer take up these jobs in the future. Working conditions can always be solved, of course. If monthly cash benefits are higher than what you earn by work, then it is natural to question whether such opportunities could not be exploited. What we have to say is that women who fall out of the work process, even if it may be an advantage at the moment, may find it difficult to get a job again in the future. Therefore, such measures could also be a shot at the back and go at the expense of women. In the longer term, what may be considered to be an advantage can be quite a disadvantage for the persons concerned. It is therefore important that the need-oriented minimum security criteria are used to prevent people from falling out of the work process; rather, it is necessary to take into account criteria that enable people who need the necessary minimum security to start the work process. There are pilot projects. After the evaluation of these pilot projects, which are already in progress, we will have a growing knowledge and we will certainly be able to take action on them. One thing is definitely the focus: Performance must pay off. We certainly do not want the money to be distributed to any objectors. What really matters in this context is protection against social abuse. Only through transparency and control will social abuse be effectively prevented and the necessary reliability can be achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a Graz Convention of Government Members, which states that there should be transparency on public financial and social support, on benefits which obviously do not take into account employment. Nevertheless, the environmental benefits provided in the sense of society will appear on this account by farmers from whom no income can be recovered, which will be paid by public payments. The same applies to compensation payments for difficult management conditions. Also from this increased work on heavy work done by our miners, there is no euro to earn, and these payments will also appear on the transfer account in the future. In any event, one thing must be assured that these payments are easily apparent as such by means of a special label. Then: Farmers have nothing to hide – even now. There is already a comprehensive transparency. All EU-supported payments are already available on the transparency database on the Internet and are also available for any interested person. So anyone who speaks of justice must also be able to talk about honesty. We're definitely behind that. The ÖVP stands for distribution and performance justice. Therefore, a clear yes to demand-oriented minimum security, if at the same time the transfer account comes.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16982	Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17003	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöginger has sung us in his speech a song of praise to the Austrian social system. [[Call the ÖVP: A good speech!]] He has explained to us how high the level of Austrian social benefits is. At the same time, however, we know and have black on white figures that say that 1 million people in Austria have to live with an income below the poverty risk threshold! The poverty threat threshold is not something but a fixed, scientifically defined value. This indicates that in Austria you need 951 € in order to get through the rounds half way – although still very, very modest. [[Abg. Wöginger:... compensation allowances!]] 951 €! And 1 million people in Austria have less! And the point is: In the future, no less will have to be done with this money because you say a minimum guarantee of €744 will be sufficient. – This is around €200 a month less than you need to be able to live a life without poverty! Mr Katzian, who has left us again, says that this minimum security is an effective instrument for combating poverty. – With 744 €, i.e. 200 € less than you would really need to be able to live without poverty?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Neubauer: What should be the minimum content?]] I can't understand all this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the government programme, you set the goal of vigorously fighting poverty – and then it is €744! [[Call the ÖVP:Social benefits!]] They are committed to speeding up the project of minimum security. But the only thing that you have speeded up was negotiations that have always brought down the level of minimum security. You could do that quickly! Ladies and gentlemen, this minimum security will not bring us forward in the fight against poverty. Do you know how much in the future a member or a partner in – it is mainly women who are affected by poverty in Austria – do you know how much these people will have available to finance a meal? Calculate it! It is 1.47 € for lunch or dinner! I really want to know if there might be someone in the EIA to whom this is all embarrassing. Obviously not to you, Mr Social Spokesman. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Maybe at least one of the ladies is embarrassing. I'd hope so. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But apparently you all think like your clubman's head, who made it clear that he can't even be a good friend of these 744 €, because this also seems too much to him. It seems too much to him in view of the difference to the income of those who would have to work for, say, 820 € full-time. He goes on to say: I don't know if there will be enough people who are willing to work for 820 € if you can get 744 € as well. - Quote. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] I assume that he knows his own model and knows that this simply does not work in any way, because there are rules on eligibility in the area of emergency aid to which the minimum guarantee is bound. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amon and Mr Wöginger]] All right, let's take care of this. Mr. Klubobmann's head and obviously many of you fear that, if we have 744 €, there will be no more people who will be willing to work for 820 €. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you quite honestly [[Abg. Neubauer: Quite honest!]] If the minimum security will not be protected from poverty, then I would be really happy and happy if this minimum guarantee had at least the effect that there would be no more people willing to work for €820! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: Are you serious about what you're saying?- Oh, my God!]] Because then it would finally be necessary and essential for employers in Austria to pay more than €820. Then employers would be forced to pay so much for full-time work that you can live on it without poverty! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Because this is not the case in Austria. Full-time work still does not protect against poverty in Austria – and that is a massive scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party prevents a fundamental guarantee that really protects against poverty. The Austrian People's Party prevents minimum wage schemes that protect people from poverty. In return, however, the Austrian People's Party guarantees its party donors that their assets can continue to grow tax-free or tax-free. This is the social and distribution policies of the ÖVP! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And you from the SPÖ, and you too, Minister Hundstorfer, unfortunately, you do not have much to do with all this. They see how the minimum security is gradually dismantled, both in the federal and now in the countries. In the federal states, the ÖVP is negotiating for devils to come out and try to undermine the ban on deterioration. They are also trying to prevent proper enforcement laws from coming out in the countries. And the SPÖ is watching. We have 1 million people in our country – that is about every fourth family – who have to face an income below the poverty risk threshold. We have the SPÖ as a majority group in government and Parliament, and yet nothing will change. The SPÖ is also unable to lead us to a real basic guarantee. They are also unable to introduce a complete, poverty-resistant minimum wage. They do not create educational reform. In doing so, we know: Education and poverty belong together. I do not see anything of this package against wage and social dumping, which you continue to mention. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have experienced over the last few weeks about this minimum guarantee really affects me. I assume that this has been expressed in this speech. They're sucking. They're playing with fates. This is not a social policy standstill, as the FPÖ expresses it, but it is for me the absolute social policy and, above all, moral bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17218	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17239	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to the speakers of the individual political groups, you will have an account: Is the minimum guarantee good? Is the transfer database good? What did we do? What didn't you do? According to the presentation of the colleague Muchich – he is no longer there – there would have been only social reduction in the years 2000 to 2006. [[Abg. Grosz: For the record: He's on the buffet, the head-ask of the Social Democrats!]] However, he has forgotten that it was precisely the Federal Government that introduced the registration of workers before the start of work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] – That was an important measure at the time, Mr Riepl, to prevent social abuse! We also wanted to enforce the client liability, the liability of the general contractors for their subcontractors. Only that was not possible with the partner. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Riepl.]] - Not just that. We have also introduced the ‘hackler scheme’, the long-term insured scheme. You've extended them afterwards. You have always fought them, but then extended them and then watered them down, so that the sick days also come in. That's exactly what you did. And today you're yelling at it. That's your problem. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Who has introduced the pension calculation of child training periods for women up to 4 years per child? – The then Federal Government of ÖVP and FPÖ, then BZÖ. Also the times for the care of family members. And who has introduced the disability billions for those people who don't have it so easy to live? You might?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] No, not her! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] But one thing I would like to say to the trade unionists' address to my left. [[Abg. Grosz: Poverty-Speaker Muchitsch!]] The loss of real wages – the wages is not the government, not the Parliament, the wages are the social partners – which workers have had to report over the past few years, has gone to your expense! That's what you have to answer! [[Abg. Riepl: Well, how big is the real loss?]] Sales capacity loss, too, Mr Riepl. Tell my colleague Muchichch! Mr Lipitsch listens carefully. We can exchange this over and over again. Mr Lipitsch, there is still a lot to be done in this area. Because not everyone has a minimum wage. In Austria there is no minimum wage, which is regulated according to the KV. There are still sectors that have none. If I make a minimum wage of €1,000 gross after the KV today, then €820 net will come out. Then the difference to minimum security of 744 € is very low! If an employee is driving to work – and that's not so easy today – and I know what, between €60 and €80 per month alone for the spray or for the travel costs, well, have the honor, then it doesn't pay off to go to work! At this point I also say something to you, ladies and gentlemen from the ÖGB: Why don't you think about it? It's no longer contemporary. The little one and the big one, that's a blackmail anyway! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Now to you, Minister of State! You mentioned the last figures of yesterday's labour market data. That's very plausible, but that's a snapshot. They have spoken of 212,000 unemployed, 72,000 in training. I have the printed data we had in May: That was 310 000 unemployed, 78 000 in training. On the other hand, 33 000 are to be mentioned in open spaces. Also interesting is: Youth unemployment – the up to 25-year-olds – was 15.6 percent in May. The unemployment of over 50 years of age has never been as high as now. It has reached the highest level at 21.5 percent. And you're talking about best practice, Mr. Federal Minister?- Oh, my God! - It can't be that way. You know what I miss, Mr. Federal Minister? I miss out on your side as well as on the part of the Chamber of Commerce and also on the part of the Industrial Union Association proposals on how older people can be kept in employment longer. [[BZÖ and Abg. May. Stefan.]] You're always talking about the increase in life expectancy and the need for people to work longer – but you're sending them the termination! In the economic crisis, the President of the Industrial Union Veit Sorger now comes up with the idea that people should give up a quarter of their wages, but he doesn't think of how to work people any longer. So in this area, Mr Federal Minister, there is still a lot to be done. And as for reforms, everyone says they are urgently necessary. We need, among other things, an administrative reform, but in this area, Mr Federal Minister, nothing is done at all. Also with regard to pensions – keywords: work longer, run out of the hackler rule – there is a lot in the arrogance. However, there are pension privileges in Austria, such as at the Austrian Bundesbahnen or at the Austrian National Bank, and there are generous corporate pensions and areas where bonuses are paid out. And right there, Minister of State, you should put the lever on, put your finger on the wound! And if you do this, everyone will be right, because first these privileges will be eliminated before you take other measures, because these privileges in the company's pensions and in the vouchers, especially in the Austrian Bundesbahnen, where someone who has arrived there before 1996 can retire at 52 years of age, no Austrian understands no more. There are also privileges in the pension system of the countries and municipalities. There are officials who are covered by the “hackler scheme” with 40 years of contributions and who, at 55 years of age, change to the ASVG-pension and thus tax pensioners. Of course, the countries and municipalities, Mr. Federal Minister, are happy to be able to pay only 7 percent, and not 22.8 percent, which is otherwise the service provider's and employee's contribution. But who pays that? – Then all other Austrian insured persons pay for that! And as far as the Federal Pension Grant is concerned, which is 13 or 14 percent for the self-employed, 34 percent for the self-employed and 60 percent for the farmers, there are large differences due to the different contribution payments. He's 100 percent of the officials. Right there, Minister of State, once belongs to the lever. It would be necessary to do something in this area at last. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now to the minimum security and transfer database. – These are in themselves good ideas. Only: There is no agreement on this. On Thursday this issue should have been discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but there was no agenda for it, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. It was cancelled again. The only thing that happens is that this issue is constantly being discussed in the media. Otherwise there is a standstill, and a standstill means a step back, because only movement means progress. Mr Federal Minister, we need clear rules on the game. It needs to be clearly regulated what the minimum security should look like, and we want clear rules on a transfer database. In my opinion, it would have to include all social benefits, whether they come from federal, country, local or other institutions, as well as the funding, regardless of whether they come from federal, country, local or other institutions. This applies to industry as well as industry and farmers. We have already heard today that there are counter-services of agriculture, such as landscape care. This can be said, of course, but it should be presented transparently. That's not a question. And another one, Minister of State: In the municipalities there is a certain distortion of competition, because there are municipalities that pass on the pay-a-mount tax to companies, and other municipalities in turn say to the companies: If you settle with me, you don't have to pay a channel connection fee! Mr. Federal Minister, that should be suppressed! All of this belongs to the transfer database, otherwise it doesn't make sense. Now for minimum security. – There are few incentives to take up employment. Although it is threatened with a reduction in the minimum security, the fact is that the livelihood and the housing needs of the beneficiaries must definitely be covered, because you have to live somewhere, that is logical. But on the other hand, we don't know how much it will cost. You, Mr. Federal Minister, are talking about 131 million euros of additional costs for the federal government. To this end, the costs for countries and municipalities: Countries € 50 million, municipalities € 30 million. The communities have not even been negotiated with them, they do not yet know what will happen to them. At the moment, the communities already have great problems. So I don't know how these will deal with it. To the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum guarantee, where 818 € net 744 € are against, I must say: In my opinion, this is a little too little, Minister of State! Then: Performance must be quite simply worth it! This is important for the people so that they can have confidence in politics. Policy must create the framework and the rules that everyone can live up to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17396	Next speaker: Mr Linder. I'll set the clock to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17417	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! If, as Mr Wöginger said today, as Mr Wöginger said, the most important social policy measure is to give people work, I believe that this is a very important and correct aspect. If, however, you, Minister of State, ask whether you will be supporting the Koralm Tunnel project in Carinthia from a labour-political point of view, and say: It's not my business, that's not my business, so I ask you if you're serious about your statement that it's important to you to give people work and make sure that they have employment. As head of state, Haider and Frau Landeshauptfrau Klasnic have forced the Koralm Tunnel to connect Austria to the important "Baltic-Adriatic-Axi" road, so that this important traffic flow does not go around Austria, but Austria is involved and Carinthia and Styria have actually given great approval to this project. It was also obvious that these two federal states were willing to give money for it, namely every federal country € 140 million, which has flowed to this day and where loyal Carinthias have stood as the Styria. The Federal Minister Bures was also in Carinthia and has boasted how important this project is and said that she is fully behind it. So far, seven kilometers of probes, roads, railway stations and accompanying bridges have been built. Of the total of 5.4 billion project costs, 1.2 billion have already been installed. This is very important for us in Carinthia. Commissioner Peter Stauber, you know how many jobs the local economy has already secured and how many jobs have already been created, and you also know that in the economically weaker south of Austria, we urgently need this project and it is very important for us. that this project will continue. According to Wifo – and my colleague Gabi Moser, you once smiled at me – exactly 17,000 people are created by a billion construction projects in jobs. After completion of this project, a total of 6 100 more jobs are ensured in an area that is very important to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But precisely at this stage, when it comes to evaluating this project across Europe, where it would be important to better position this coral tunnel project, the Federal Government is preparing and questioning this project and saying: We cannot afford to cut back, we must withdraw, instead of lobbying at the EU, instead of ensuring that this project is promoted even better and is pushed even further forward. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I cannot resist the impression that this federal government is more concerned with damaging Carinthia, continuing to invade Carinthia, rather than being behind this project and behind the economically weak space and forcing this project. That is why, Minister of State, I ask you: Did you work to ensure that the Koralmtunnel project is implemented very quickly so that this important transport axis goes through Austria from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic! Work for the rapid implementation of the Koralmtunnel project so that the €1.2 billion has not been spent for nothing! And work for the rapid implementation of the Koralmtunnel project so that the jobs in Carinthia and Styria can be secured! And work for the rapid implementation of the Koralmtunnel project so that you finally get the impression that this federal government has nothing better to do than harm Carinthia and commit to Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to implement this, I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17506	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17578	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17599	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A word to Mrs. Schatz, even if she is no longer here. I think Mrs. Schatz was not quite clear what she gave of herself when she said that she wished to stop all the people working. [[Abg. Neubauer: A call to a general strike!]] I don't know, was that a call to a strike?- Oh, my God! Their entire speech has reminded a little of times that thank God is over, namely the communist times. But now on today's issue, namely the ceasefire in social policy. Mr Federal Minister, once again you have told us impressively in your statement of entry that today at 7.18 a.m., I think you said that the unemployment figures are lower than they were yesterday that there are more jobs again. You always do that, that's your well-known shame. However, it is already a fact that the official figures of the AMS in Vienna say, for example, that the unemployment rate rose again in May. And it's worrying that you make yourself here every time you say: It's all wonderful, it's all pink, and we can be happy because we're better there than the rest of the world! Mr Federal Minister, this does not benefit those people who are now unemployed. For these, it has no meaning at all, whether we have fewer unemployed than other countries, but every single unemployed person who wants to work suffers from this situation, and there is no use for such statistics at all. Mr Federal Minister, if I consider that there has been no longer any Committee on Social Affairs for a long time, and now on the subject of minimum security, one date after another will be postponed, I have to say: This shows that even in this government there is obviously no agreement on this and that the minimum guarantee in the way you plan it can probably not be majority-able and should not be majority-bearing, because what you are planning is nothing but to give people money according to the casting pot principle. In fact, you can't give people an incentive to start a job. I like it when you make yourself here now and say: The foreigners are so poor, because they don't get it, and there's no need for us to think about it, that's no incentive to come to us, they have to be in the country for five years anyway! Do you really know how many are in the country just waiting for it? You're always trying to talk about everything you're planning here, but it's not really like that. The people outside see this very well. They see the black workers standing around in many areas, not only in Vienna, but also in many other larger cities. Mr Federal Minister, I have sent you a question as to whether these conditions are known to you and whether you are also aware that these workers not only take up black workers, but also that entire company weights come and take up crowds of workers black, and your only answer to them was: That's not my place! So if that's your answer to this abuse and if that's your answer as Minister of Labour, I have to say: That is really a weak answer! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would expect a Minister of Labour to accept these problems and to take note of them. They are serious because they represent a wage pressure. And this wage pressure will be much greater if, next year, there will be also crowds legally coming to Austria. We already have great problems with cheap workers from the East, and this pressure is, of course, getting bigger. But you, Minister of Social Affairs, are pretending to be so great. And my colleague, Mr Muchich, also said: Well, we're not perfectly prepared yet, we still have to do something or we should do something more! Yes, you're in the government, do something! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Make sure we can move the deadlines a little backwards! We are now in one of the most serious crises. Unemployment is far from at the height, and you know it very well. The crisis has far from been overcome. And yet you say: Well, it's not that tragic, we're well prepared anyway, we're going to shake it somehow! That's the wrong approach or the wrong way, because you're really taking people's chances in the country and destroying jobs by low-cost workers. That's an insanity, that's actually a crime against the people of this republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a word about your answer to our urgent question. You have said on some questions that you are not responsible for this, for example, not for the fact that there are privileges in the pension system of state officials. Mr Federal Minister, it is easy to say that you are not responsible and that all of this is country competence. But one thing is clear: You are the top social politician, and you, of course, also have the power to negotiate with the countries here. It cannot be that, for example, in the country of Vienna, harmonisation will only take place in 2048! Mr Federal Minister, there is a need for action, and to act there is your job as a Social Minister. You can't always lean back into your hammock and say: It's not my business, it's country skills! Mr Federal Minister, we expect you to finally scratch and work the sleeves!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17666	Before I give the floor to Mrs Silhavy, I should like to welcome Mr Lewandowski, Commissioner for Financial Planning and Budget. Thank you for your visit! [[General condolences.]] [[Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski rises from his seat on the gallery and thanks with a bowing.]] Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. I put the clock on desired 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17699	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, the people will assess the value of this urgent question, after all, it is brought by the FPÖ, which, together with its later split party BZÖ, has carried out the largest social reduction towards the Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Mr Grosz, I remember: The deterioration in access to pensions! I remember, Mr Dolinschek: Hackler regulation and heavy work regulation because you were afraid of the illegality of the Constitution and because you knew that ÖGB and SPÖ and other parties were putting pressure on you! That's why she came into existence at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I remember, Mr Neubauer: real income losses among pensioners because you have deducted so-called surpluses between 2000 and 2005 and only in 2006 have made a real pension increase! I remember: Reductions in benefits in unemployment insurance, introduction of unconstitutional sick leave or accident pension tax, also unconstitutional, doubling seasonal periods! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, I think you were the press speaker of the Social Minister at the time. That was your social policy – and today you want to make great speeches! You don't think that's human. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] The list of cuts and burdens made in the government under your time would take more time than I have left on the clock today. It says a lot anyway if Mrs Haubner – I don't see her now – says for himself that you said in 2007 that it is time for the social cold to be eliminated again. So the colleague Haubner himself has confirmed that you have pursued a social cold policy. Thank you for that! If you had been able to prove social competence on the FPÖ side, you totally failed, and that is why you are trying to make a good social policy today. The need-oriented minimum security is part of a poverty reduction approach. In the first step, it meets two important demands, namely an improvement in the accounting of partner and partner incomes and also a monetary improvement for 75 percent of service providers. But above all – and this is particularly important – it is a crucial human and social policy point that the minimum security is activated and therefore offers future prospects for people. I would like to pay tribute to you, Mr Federal Minister, and to your team, to the fact that you have succeeded in convincing all nine heads of state to sign the Article 15a agreement on minimum security of demand. In my knowledge, this was also a condition for the EIA to deal with the need-oriented minimum security in the Committee. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible to me, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that you are opposed to the transparency account, because there is no transparency without the services of the countries and communities. And I would really ask you to reconsider your attitude in this regard. You shouldn't say one was out with the other and lay a different basis for it. The transparency account must also be signed by the countries, because only then is there a level playing field, and I would therefore ask you not to block it in this case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fight against unemployment must continue to remain the focus of our policy, even if we already have individual successes. Everyone and every unemployed person is, as we all know – I hope, at least in this point, we have consensus in this area – a unemployed person or a unemployed person is too much. I would remind you that the economic packages create up to 100 000 jobs. An invested euro brings €2.1 in value added, as the IHS has also noted. In this context, I would like to remind you that the SPÖ, but above all our Styrian head of state, Franz Voves, were those who called for a fair contribution from all those involved in the crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] Yes, Mr Grosz, it is about 1 per cent of the richest who own 33 per cent of the total assets – that is why they can [[Abg. Grosz: Pay taxes!]] They don't wander around, because otherwise the middle class has to pay for it, and we're against it. [[Abg. Grosz: Pay taxes!]] We don't want the middle class to carry the whole load. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] We have responsibility towards the weak and weakest in this state, but we also have responsibility for a welfare-oriented medium-sized policy. [[Abg. Grillitsch: No single establishment in Styria in the last five years! Not one!]] We clearly distinguish ourselves from you, my colleagues from the ÖVP. Our Social Minister and Social Democracy put the fight against unemployment at the centre of their policy, which also applies to labour market groups which are politically disadvantaged. [[Abg. Grosz: Pay taxes!]] In this sense, I expressly welcome the initiative, Mr Federal Minister, to seek a federal regime for personal assistance. [[Abg. Grosz: Pay taxes!]] Social is not what creates work, but social is what creates existential work. [[Abg. Grosz: Pay taxes!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, as a social reduction party, will also be asked with dizzy questions [[Abg. Grosz: What about taxes?]] Don't improve your image, you only show your social policy incompetence once again. [[Abg. New builder: You can't even read it down!]] Thank you for this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17902	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. [[Abg. Grosz: Pay taxes, Mrs. Silhavy!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: I pay taxes, Mr Grosz!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I put the clock at 5 minutes, the total rest period is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17947	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy Your speech: By claiming falsehoods so often, they do not become truths! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And: Because you're socialist, that doesn't mean you're social, Mrs. Colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] But now to the urgent request of today. The picture the government gives is not really worth seeing. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] - Maybe you'll listen to me! If we allow revision to take place today – starting with the current hour on equality between women on the labour market, continuing with the security debate, which we discussed today, in June 2010, the safety report 2008 until now, on the urgent question on the issue of “Stilling in Social Policy” – we have to say that it looks as if the government had taken the word “Stillstand” for itself. There is still no agreement on minimum security and the transfer database until this plenary session. The committee meeting was cancelled, and now the opposition parties are being pushed into the shoes that this committee could not meet in time to deal with the government template here in plenary today. Austria has been in the most severe economic crisis since 1930. Administrative reform is long overdue. The red and black coalition pushes forward questions to the long bank. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With this finding, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree with the opposition parties, but there are fundamental differences in the quality of the proposals for solutions. This urgent request by the liberals is a good example. At a prominent point there is always the expression ‘the stranger’ or ‘the stranger’, the strangers at the social pots, the strangers at the minimum security, the strangers at all corners and ends. What kind of strangers do you mean here, ladies and gentlemen? You leave us unclear about this, but that's probably your intention too. In contrast to you, the BZÖ has recognised the specific problem, prepared a reasonable solution proposal and put it on the table, namely the BZÖ foreigners' check. With the BZÖ-Ausländercheck, we want to place immigration to Austria on an economically sound, meaningful and actually human basis. The BZÖ Ausländercheck includes concrete demands, solutions and measures. However, the minimum guarantee in the current form is actually anti-performance. However, the BZÖ has also presented a thoughtful counter-draft here as the only political group. With the BZÖ guarantee, it is guaranteed that: Reward performance and work again, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria needs an administrative reform. Austria needs an end to its refusal to reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Austria needs an end to the standstill. Austria needs concepts for the future – and these concepts have the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen, very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18047	The next item is Mrs Kitzmüller. There is now the following problem at the speaking time: Mrs Gartelgruber is speaking after you. You've got 8 minutes together. I therefore need to know from you how many minutes I should set the speaking time for you. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: (on the way to the speaker's desk) In 4 minutes!]] Good. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18084	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear speakers from the government parties, when I listen to what you're giving of yourself, I have to say: It is no wonder that nothing has gone on, because you are only arrested in a retrospect, you lack the prospect of the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The social aspects are lacking in their entirety, as we have already made clear to you in our contributions. In particular, the savings measures cannot be carried out in the case of the families. Marketing events are made by the Federal Government itself, such as the idea of the 5th. Family report – a great event – and the Secretary of State, who is responsible for it on paper, has remained until mid-term. When the experts spoke, she was gone. That was obviously not interesting for them. And that's exactly how politics looks! Mr Sozialminister, I now ask you, in cooperation with the Secretary of State, to at least try to pursue family policy for Austria, to restore family life, and to agree on a better way for families for whom mothers are working and family. The parents perform huge unpaid activities in terms of maintenance, education and care activities for the children. They also provide enormous for the generation agreement, ladies and gentlemen, without which the maintenance of the social system you are now going to drive on the wall would be impossible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Family benefits must find justified recognition in the Federal Government, and the necessary budget must be available for this. At present, there is a cold climate of fear and uncertainty for young people. At this time, it is no wonder that no one can decide to start a family and have children. Family savings amount to € 440 million. No wonder the birth rate falls in these prospects. In a newspaper article it says – look at this article! – that 32,000 children are at risk of poverty. Imagine: 32,000 children! – But not in Austria, but only in Upper Austria! Upper Austria with its 10.1 percent is still good as it is called. In the Federal average, 14.5% of children live at the poverty line. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] That's incredible, my Ladies and gentlemen, and nothing is done about it?- Oh, my God! The disadvantage of women, which is always mentioned here, is also such a story. Of course, women belong to support, but on the labour market there are equally families promoted. That is, if several people apply for a job, he must get the job that a family receives – even if it is a man, ladies! For the future of our families and our society, it is important that we promote families in this area. It is also important to support family members. What's it look like? Who's doing that? - That's what the women do. This is a work that is unthankful and is not financially paid to families. How does that look? – The social state lives on the fact that women do the unpaid work at home, and they are not insured! I expect you to have a security, at least as far as pensions are concerned. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I would ask you, in fact, with all your colleagues, to ensure that the Austrian families do not become social cases.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18145	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber with the remaining 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18166	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The use of social benefits must not become a principle of life. Measures such as the so-called minimum guarantee, which is not, as one wants to be, a safety net for the early re-entry of the labour market, but rather the opposite, and which will be an invitation to the hammock for many who have not invented the work, are totally counterproductive. They are creating a new class of permanent service providers whose number is constantly increasing and which must be maintained by fewer and fewer workers. With the planned minimum guarantee, which is now the emergency, an amount of €744 is to be paid 12 times a year. However, the condition is that you do not have more than €3 720 saved or other usable things in your possession, such as a car or an apartment. Thus, minimum security punishes all those Austrians who have saved themselves or created property. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But how do you explain these new achievements to all those women who now work full time and receive about €900 to €1,000 per month? Where is the incentive for these women to work if full-time work is paid just €150 or €250 more? And although we have discussed this morning in the current hour the issue of “forcing equal opportunities for women means increasing economic performance”, it seems strange to me that you do not want to take account of those women who work in professions where they do not deserve so much. They would be required to improve wages and salaries in the so-called typical women's professions. They are the Minister of Social Affairs, and You can also make a significant contribution to this with the help of your trade union. However, what I am particularly thinking about is the condition for the reference of the minimum guarantee. Minister, either you have to read your answer on Question 11 deliberately left out, or you do not know your own legislative text, because Article 4 of the Article-15a Agreement, 677 of the Supplements, states: ‘Legal entitlements to services of the need-oriented minimum guarantee shall be provided for all persons entitled to a permanent stay in the country. In any case, this includes... 2. persons entitled to asylum and eligible for protection; 3rd. EU/EEA citizens’. Somehow I think that's strange, because you really forgot something. I am already looking forward to how many EU citizens will move their residence to Austria after the introduction of the minimum guarantee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, one more word on the transparency database. In Austria, there is a whole range of transfer services that need to be questioned. Many are little safe, and they lead to see no more than the support in the current emergency, but as a fixed income component. And they benefit far too many strangers through the European standard work, but we cannot afford to get these de facto too. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has been in the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s. Our country urgently needs reforms to cope with this crisis. In the meantime, however, the government is sinking more and more into chaos. Instead of taking overdue reforms into account now, the government is only taking action. Now we need to come up with solutions and reforms to get our country back on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18239	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. I'll set the clock to the rest of the time of 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18261	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will then take a brief look at the request of Mr Dr. In the context of the downtime in social policy, he is working at Kurzmann, who is holding up the construction to the Koralm Tunnel. But now the real subject of the urgent question. I remember well, or actually it happens regularly that the opposition is being held, it should not come to the idea of junctimizing anything. We have now done something in this way more often than not, thank God – that was always in common, in the meantime, in the meantime, even in the meantime – but we tell you every time that this is what you possibly do within your parties, but at least in the Federal Government all the time and all the time. And so it is obvious that the minimum security must be linked to a transparency database – no longer “transfer account” in Jargon. Obviously, you really did that in March at the government clause in Graz. Anyway, we are now faced with the finding that the Federal Government, at least the majority in the National Council, cannot pass through this minimum guarantee, which many have so praised, because there is a junkim with something else. Now, in the ÖVP, one may already think that this has a connection – you can already have – we have had the suspicion at the beginning that you simply want to prepare the mood for the necessary savings measures that will come that you will also cut in with the social system. And, of course, we are maintaining this suspicion. It may be ideologically argued. They are more there, others are elsewhere, our line is: Save it, but you're right, you're not. We will still be meeting in the debate, probably not in terms of content. But if it's you who are junctifying the whole thing, then we're going to turn to the transfer database – fractional confusion in the first row. [[MEPs Dr. Cap, Head and Grosz are talking to each other]] If it makes sense, however, it is quite reasonable to look at two things in addition. Who should be captured at all? – And there are then probably also certain companies, in particular companies, possibly even companies that regularly benefit from tax advantages in millions and billions, perhaps even companies that are established as such, only in order to achieve these tax advantages. All of this should then be included. I think that we would even meet with the position of the Social Democrats. It is also my proposal that we should take account of the country transfers that are being carried out. Of course, because just then – from my point of view: almost only then – does the whole thing make sense if you insist that certain transfer recipients – which are in my preference, I have just told you – still cash federal, country, possibly community promotions or other things. Then we could take a look at what Mr Mateschitz gets so promoted when the day is long. It is not so easy to find out what the Magna Group has already received in Graz and its surroundings over the past 15 years. It's not that easy. We could see that that would not be the most clumsy, quite reasonable. In so far as a yes to the transparency database, however, that every individual case and every citizen should be included in it, I think it is more problematic. It would be a good idea to compare the social transfers systems of the countries and the Federal Government and to work out typical cases, because they would be the same thing as the economic governance system. – But be it, we are waiting for your proposals in this regard. But where we are not watching for long, it is that you are constantly blocking each other and holding back something as meaningful as the minimum guarantee – or if it is just a small step in the right direction. To conclude, as far as this transfer database is concerned, I would like to say something that would increase the credibility of the two government parties in particular: Most importantly, we need transparency in financing the political parties in Austria. I'm sure! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: This also applies to the Greens!]] If you do not agree that we will bring in transparency, you will remain unbelievable elsewhere. Despite enormous public party funding, in Austria we also have a wealth of donations for parties, and the citizens should know who pays. Of course! This is one of the basic principles in democracy. It is handled more transparently in almost all European countries, not so in Austria. That is why we are rightly at the very back of all lists on these issues of transparency and anti-corruption issues. We keep slipping back, that's your merit. And in any case, our contribution will be that, even as regards the transparency of party finances, we will call for a contribution from you here, because we should actually go ahead with a good example. Then explain to the citizens why all the pants should be dropped, just not you who get donations from banks. Yeah, you should declare that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Exactly, Raiffeisen – yes, thank you for the call – you know each other, there you are at home. Now, let's open this up, so that the citizens know who they really are running back for. That would be exactly the debate that is missing. But, please, we'll be there. Now another bridge that is much shorter than you believe, namely from the party donations to the construction industry. Yes, the faster have overcome it – thank you for your thought. Look, the Koralm Tunnel, which is now being raised here by means of a resolution on the item on the agenda, may be a lot, but certainly not an intelligent employment project. Just so it's clear: I am under certain conditions for this construction project. But with the employment argument, this can be justified as the very last. The whole world knows that the very large tunnels in relation to the euro spent and invested generate the lowest number of jobs. But now it is still interesting to know that this coral tunnel will ever only bring about transport policy reason and effectiveness if we enter into a traffic turnaround in politics at all. With this kind of transport policy, it remains a huge misinvestment. Finally, we need to limit transit traffic as we can only somehow. Getting everything out for the truck toll – doesn't happen. Motorway construction stop for certain areas that compete each other. They want to build two high-performance motorways and highways between Vienna and Klagenfurt, while at the same time building the Koralm Tunnel, which is not all going out, with money that you don't have at all. Then tell me what you're for! We'll go this far and say: These projects only have a meaning when a traffic policy turns. And there's much more to it than that. It makes no sense if you are constantly pushing the truck traffic into action with the European Union in terms of transport policy and then you are building really senseless holes. This only makes sense if it is clear that there is as much truck transport as possible and, of course, passenger transport has a corresponding perspective. Otherwise, this will be a misinvestment. And I say this quite consciously as a steirer, quite conscious, because we trust this in contrast to many others who run around and say it must not be raised any tax, but at the same time every issue is still required. That's never going to happen! So: If we want to get there that we have a reasonable transport policy, then it will end up not before. And of course – I give the liberal right – the Federal Government is responsible for whether it is consistent here or not. At the moment, we cannot issue this testimony to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18317	Mr Hundstorfer has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18341	Ladies and gentlemen! I have to get some things straight, I think, or I generally ask for some background information before making certain statements here. I have nothing to do with it – Mrs. Dr. Belakovich is unfortunately not here – but we also have declining unemployment rates in Vienna on the last day, and I have not claimed anything else here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You know my statements very well. I would like to say to you that we are in the minus in all the federal states. It is. Let us be glad together before we wake up each other! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These are the numbers of those who do it, not mine, AMS – just so it's clear. If you say that family support in this country is so bad, I ask you to take note of the following: We have the second best family support from all over Europe. – That's point one. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Point two: We have created a health and pension insurance for caregivers from the age of 3 onwards. I would really ask for seriosity, for seriosity. I know that polemics are sometimes quite good. But if you say here, we don't care about caring relatives at all, that's just wrong. It's just wrong. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And I would also ask for clarification, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gartelgruber. The asylum seekers – you have to read the Minutes, I tell you what is in there and what I have said – are not entitled to refer at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] - But I'm talking about that. Don't think I should have said something here that I didn't say! Who are those entitled to asylum? - Recognised refugees. Today, according to all the social assistance laws of the whole Republic, these people are very likely to be entitled to social assistance and tomorrow too. I think we have a fundamental obligation in this country that recognised refugees who have a recognised refugee status also have access to our social benefits. And that's what I've been talking about. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to make it clear once again: In fact, minimum security is a harmonization of today's social assistance. That's nothing new. There will be no new guideline in two federal states, because this new guideline has already been reached in two federal states, that is in the Federal State of Styria and in the Federal State of Upper Austria. And in all the other federal states there is a follow-up procedure. Even though the difference is mentioned here, the hairdresser example, honourable Mrs Haubner. Do you know how I got the numbers? - From the hairdressing. To make that clear. - Point one. Point two: The 46 percent difference is because that's 14 times and the minimum security is only 12 times. Here too, please, recalculate. That's a simple thing. [[Abg. Riepl: You should be able to calculate!]] Here it was claimed that Mr Buchinger had said that it was 400 000 persons entitled to refer. Yeah, he said, but then quote my predecessor completely. I would have trusted you with this seriosity. The 400 000 were included in the compensation allowance. In the old proposal on minimum security, it was intended to do something for the compensation beneficiaries as well. And these equal payers were then removed according to the government programme, which was extra solved. As a result, this number of 400 000 voted at the time, which is no longer the case today. We have, whether you want or not, 17 000 people in this country who have the social assistance as their sole source of income. We have received this number from the Austrian municipalities and federal states. That's their number structure. I believe that all the heads of state and the wife of the state do not easily sign an § 15a agreement. All together, the heads of state of Carinthia, Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Tyrol, Vorarlberg, Vienna and Burgenland, know exactly what they signed. And they also told us that we have, in total, 150 000 people across Austria who need temporary access to social assistance – temporarily! The average reference is between six and seven months at an hour. This is not a numerical structure that I invented, but that is what the Austrian communities and federal states have told us. That's how you get to the total number. And so it is. That in small communities many people who would have an opportunity to get 40, 50 € increase performance do not request these from various shames, we know. We also know that the anonymity of the cities makes it easier to overcome the fear of thresholds in the big cities. There a lot more people pick up this 40, 50 € increase, and if it's only three months. But it is perfectly clear – and we have never kept that secret – that there will be a certain increase. This has never been kept silent, and it has even been dealt with very soberly with by all the countries concerned. They will not be subject to any of these states to act lightly and do not know what they are doing, but we simply have to provide a certain life situation here in that country. With this need-oriented minimum guarantee, I can only repeat it once again, there is a harmonisation of the social assistance guidelines. The example brought here, by the Billa salesman, the part-time salesman and the 744 €, is simply wrong. This 744 € only gets it if it is alone and not provided. In the moment someone lives in a partnership, the share of living is immediately lost. This is also in line with today's social assistance laws. Then the 558 € will be paid, 75 percent of the Social Assistance Guide. 75 percent of the compensation allowance is the new Social Aid Directive from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. All of this is in the 15a agreements signed by all the federal states. The rest is part of the living. As a result, the difference between active labour income and this minimum guarantee is also relatively high. Who even gets social assistance in this country? Have you ever tried to get this? Have any of you ever tried to obtain permanent social assistance? I invite you a lot of pleasure, you will experience your miracles. It is quite simple that we have such a tight network and so many activating offers. I can only really invite you to drive to Bruck at the Mur, I can only invite you to travel to Vienna Floridsdorf and there to look into the face of the affected people, who today are permanent social assistance workers, who are now inviting us to work-place-activating measures. These are people with life careers that I don't want us all, not all of us. But for the first time, these people have the feeling that I can give something back to society. These are not hammock people, but they are people who in a certain period of life have had problems with alcohol, some with drugs, some with family partners. But these people are not hammocks, but they are people who want to go back to work with everything they have. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I should like to point out that I have already said this three times in the House: EU-SILC calculates differently. In EU-SILC, all aid is counted at 14 times. There's something else that comes out. In the case of minimum insurance, for example, as in the case of social assistance today, the family allowance is included. That's legal status today and it's still tomorrow. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18427	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kurzmann, Mr Linder, Mr Linder, Mr President, on job security through the construction of the Koralm Tunnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:53:58]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18467	I will resume the negotiations on points 4 to 6 of the agenda. Mrs Windbüchler-Saussill has been reported to speak. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18491	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the reports of the Committee on Internal Affairs. One of these reports is the request of the Freedom Party concerning additional sites to combat drug addiction. Quite clearly, the application refers to 2007 figures. The 2008 drug report shows a decline in ads of 17 percent throughout all the federal states. This March 2009 request is simply extremely inconsistent in its form and shows once again the panic that is to happen here, because active drug policy just looks different. First: Of course, there's a lot of police officers who break down big drug rings. But it also needs the clear decriminalisation of consumers, the decriminalization of dependents, and there is a clear need for public consumer space with care. It needs comprehensive emergency places and it needs the support of the family services and also the self-help group. Only that as a whole package can work in the fight against drugs. Police work alone is only a small mosaic in this regard. The further application concerning the introduction of the training model ‘Police Intern’. It is clear that minors – and this has also shown practice at the time – for the very heavy, very intensive police service simply not far enough This is the first time that we have been able They can't be involved, and they shouldn't be a placeholder for missing officials or officials. Young people and minors would be too sorry for this. The third request concerns the temporary reintroduction of border controls. So we are part of the European Union. I don't think I have to explain that here. In the fight against trafficking in human beings, against trafficking in women, against trafficking in children, against the new form of slavery, there is a need for effective international cooperation between executives, especially within the European Union. It also requires real women's and children's rights to be enshrined in constitutional law.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18524	Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18546	Madam President. Minister! High house! I want to start with TOP 4. Mr. Lettenbichler – I don't know if he's there, he's not there – has meant that the situation is such that it doesn't need so many addiction officials, officials who find out in the addiction environment. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Come on!]] I'd like to tell you something. Unfortunately, you're not the subject, so I'm going to teach you. In the addiction field, if I have a few officials, I have few cases, because the officials can handle a certain amount, and it is always the case that this is a rat's cock. If I've caught a drug dealer or several, there's a lot more dealers or consumers on it. So, that means if I have a few drug addicts, I have a few drug cases. Of course, it is also possible to press the criminal statistics and say that I have had fewer cases of addiction because I do not have the corresponding investigators. That is why it is necessary – and Mr Herbert is right if he makes this request – that the number of officials in this field be increased and therefore the addiction crime is combated. Because because of the situation that we currently have a major problem in the burglary area, in the theft sector, which fills the media accordingly, the area of addiction is more hidden. That means, he disappears medially in the sinking, although he's still there. That is why we do not get this, and that is why we need officials in this area to find out. We all know that addiction crime also depends on procurement crime, which is not very low. There you can prevent it. The right step would be to put the officials in the right place, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also like to come to TOP 5, to the teaching profession of police officers. This has already been done in several areas in the executive. The Gendarmerie then had a three-year training in the form of a teaching in Krumpendorf. These officials didn't have to do the federal army at the time. But I'll come later. That was the case with the Federal Police between 1974 and 1984. I think it is necessary to resume these things. I wasn't happy when it was reset for the following reason: We currently have the problem that many of the executives are applying for it – now you can say problem yes or no. But someone who has taught has relatively little chance of coming to the police if he doesn't have a matura. This has the following background: that the police recruiters who made a matura are used to learning, are “inward” in learning and, of course, better cut in the tests. But that doesn't mean they're the better officials. We have a lot of apprentices or former apprentices who enter this field with a vocational training and have no matura who, of course, were no longer used to learning in this form for a period of time because they worked in a profession. These automatically have a disadvantage in a recording test. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] With this measure one could really achieve equality, because among the maturants – we have heard this today on another topic – very many of the Maturant are inside and therefore very many officials who do the training and then throw the towel again sometime after a short time, because they insist that this is not their job. Here one could create a clear equality, i.e., boys and girls have the same conditions. We would even go so far as to say that they also have to do part of a military training with the federal army because it is mandatory for boys to take off the military service before they come to the police. That might also be to think of – in a certain area; it doesn't necessarily have to be six months, but in a certain area, so that they can get something in there too. And it is also important that, when they come to the police, the officials can sniff in first and see if the job is really something for them. On this point, I have to say clearly, we can support this proposal a hundred percent. Mr Westenthaler has already reported in detail on foreign law or on border controls. And then I would like to address something that has already been mentioned here, namely the Burka ban. I looked at the whole discussion: We had had the request in committee for a long time. Now the FPÖ has come to Vorarlberg and, one week before it was dealt with in the Committee, has made its own request, with the wise execution, I must say quite honestly, that the state government may work with the Federal Government to make a government proposal to the National Council on the deliberations in the committees, and the National Council will then adopt the relevant law. – It wouldn't have needed it all. That's just administrative burden, you could have saved yourself. The Greens in Vorarlberg also supported this and also the ÖVP. And that's why we're on the subject again: You just delayed because you were too cowardly to agree. So it is, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18598	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18620	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree to address three motions for resolutions tabled by FPÖ and BZÖ briefly, but they have already been rejected by a majority in the Committee on the Interior. The first request includes the demand of the FPÖ for 500 specially trained police officers to combat addiction crime. – Although it is true that addiction crime needs special attention, Austria is the first one Because of its geographical situation as a transit country for illegal drug trafficking, and, of course, addictions always play a role in the field of crime, for example, when it comes to accompanying crime in the conduct of drug trafficking or the purchase of money for the purchase of drugs, these things. This problem is well known to the experts. Many priority actions such as international cooperation have already achieved success. Specialists in the police do their job very successfully, while concentrated officials alone would not be targeting. They would have to be deducted from other departments and would be missing there again. Little sense makes the creation of a teaching profession of police officers, as demanded by the FPÖ, quite simply because this model would, for example, mean a corresponding branch, i.e. double structures. It is also difficult to train very young people for the very demanding profession of a police officer. In other professions, such as in the nursing sector or in the nursing sector, a certain age and also a certain personal maturity are required. This should also be the case with the police in the future as before. The current two-year police training has, by the way, been harmonised a few years ago and is offered in very good quality. The proposal by Mr Westenthal to reintroduce border controls is neither intended. The comprehensive security concept on the occasion of the Schengen extension has proved itself to be good, as evidenced by the criminal statistical figures. My colleague Norbert Kapeller has already mentioned this in the debate on the security report, which is why I would like to make further comments. In summary, it can be said that outdated and little thoughtful ideas do not lead to the goal, but probably the future-setting, responsible and well thought-out projects of our wife's Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18662	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18683	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the President-in-Office of the Council: It would be almost easier to just go out here and say that you refuse it instead of preaching it with proudly swollen breast and explaining why you reject it. I cannot understand this at all, and I am also very disappointed that these three requests, which I believe are very good applications, are rejected by the government, and that this will then be so lapidar, which in fact makes almost no sense. If you say that Mr Herbert's request on the fight against drugs does not make sense, because other departments would have to deduct officials, then you would have to be the biggest enemy of the Mrs Innenminister and her SOKO, because this would also be deducted by officials and, of course, missing elsewhere. So that's no reason at all. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, Mr Werner Herbert's request concerning additional sites for the fight against addiction crime is a very important, very good request, because there are very, very many failures in the fight against addiction crime, it is very personal-intensive, and one must not forget: If addiction is overcome by crime, then the number of drug addicts, the addicts, is increasing, and this costs taxpayers a lot of money. If This would be calculated and evaluated now, then it can be disputed whether these 500 additional planning sites would really cost so much more money. Mr Herbert's second request very briefly. My predecessor from the BZÖ has already made very precise statements on this subject. I can actually sign all of this. This is really a good thing, and you should really consider the following: Just because that was from 1974 to 1984 and has been behind for a long time, it does not necessarily have to be bad! You can evaluate such a thing, and you can do that with a kind of security academy. So I also think that this proposal is absolutely supportive. There is, of course, a clear agreement from our side on the proposal for a third, Mr Westenthaler, because there is one thing I have to say: I asked a question to the Federal Minister for Border Safety in the wine district a year ago and I then received a reply which is very confusing. In this, the Federal Minister writes: "At national level, the Schengen extension has been transferred from systematic border control and surveillance to selective border control. In addition, transport flows across the Austrian transit network... and in agglomeration areas, increased criminal, traffic and foreign police control mechanisms shall be established.’; Mrs Bundesminister, one thing you have to explain to me: In the same question, I asked you the question of the relationship between the systemised state and the actually serviceable state, and I now only give an example. This is the border police inspection Kleinhaugsdorf: Systemized state, i.e. planning places: 54. In 2000 it was 54, 2008 it is 54. And there are 22 officials employed in Kleinhaugsdorf! That was 57 more in 2000! Mrs. Federal Minister, you, just as your predecessors, are hungering out border police inspections on a continuous basis, you are fighting crime only in constituency centres. And that's actually, I think, security-political insanity, if you let the criminals in, as I said. And with 22 officials – where they have 57 planning posts – you can't do good work. But the beamen even do very, very good work there, although they are so few. And I think: Why do we fight crime only in the agglomerations, why not just at the border? That would be more logical! – I think that is very incomprehensible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior! There will probably no longer be staff in the next few years in border security. This is very unfortunate from the point of view of us liberals. But in the sense and in order to protect the population, you should consider whether it would not be better to strengthen police inspections at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18750	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18771	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Dear colleagues! Some colleagues of the opposition parties have long been distinguished in their parliamentary work, especially in the application, by enormously high quantity. Unfortunately, the quality of many demands remains on the track. Even today, as TOP 4, 5 and 6 of the amendments tabled by FPÖ and BZÖ, the House could have matured a little, I say. Let me take up a few points, which unfortunately were not thought to end: additional sites to combat addiction crime. FPÖ calls for more planning sites, 500 plan posts, for the area of addiction crime. I would like to remind you that more than 3,000 planning posts have just been saved from the police since 2000. These are failures that have to be picked up. [[Abg. Weinzinger: That's exactly what we want!]] [[Abg. Hagen: Mr. Colleague, you took that away before 2000, you forgot!]] And right now, you see that too, the Government of Werner Faymann has presented with Josef Pröll and the Interior Minister a very dedicated plan: plus 1,000 police officers after five years. It is very important to bring about a trend change here clearly. In addition: If we now have a request for addiction crime, will the next come with a request for burglary? There are other examples. I think this is the overall concept of advantage, and this government shows how it works. With regard to the request for the reintroduction of the teaching profession, Mr Herbert, we have a problem, you know. The training is okay, which also works, but the proposal is not okay. This proposal concerns young people, in particular, to complete a teaching profession or training as a police practitioner. But if they leave this profession after two or two and a half years or even later, they have no other training! It is important to give young people a future. They should therefore first complete a school or learn a profession, and then they can still enter the police profession. On the reintroduction of border controls, Mr Westenthaler: You have already referred to this issue. The countries you meant here, however, you did not mention. Perhaps Mr Grosz would like to introduce something in Styria, because there will soon be elections there? Or perhaps you want to close the border with Germany, because from there the largest immigration takes place? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Schengen, my colleague! It's about Schengen!]] Since the takeover of government responsibility in 2006, we have been engaged in the elimination of open construction sites that were created between 2000 and 2006. For example, the Asylum Act and the Foreign Police Act have been adapted and revised – a very important area. As far as the asylum court is concerned, I would like to mention that excellent work is being done there, and I would like to express my thanks to the staff of the asylum court. [[As a result of this, the Commission has taken the view that, in the light of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the ……]] There has been greater legal certainty here, which is important. The Constitutional Court has confirmed this, and we have gone in the right direction. In conclusion, I would like to make two brief comments: Repatriation or implementation of the measures to end the stay. There are failures which have not yet been completed. We need to be more active here, and the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior are here striving to find reasonable solutions together with the EU. Another point that is very important to me: Depleting the enrichment. Please provide more staff here together in order to ensure effective implementation. Exhaust is the most effective means of sustainable destruction of criminal structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18848	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18869	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on the request concerning addiction crime. There is a demand for something that has actually been for a very long time. Since 2003, there has been an intervention group in Vienna to combat street crime, and of course there are drug addicts here. This is a 90-member troupe that can also show very impressive numbers. More than 7 600 dealers could be arrested by the end of May, 200 kilograms of heroin worth € 17 million could be secured, 55 kilograms of cocaine worth € 5 million and 600 kilograms of hashish worth € 1.8 million. So that's almost €24 million in drug money that was secured here. This year alone, a record pick-up of 79 kilograms of heroin was achieved. There are 90 to 120 officials who are travelling here daily in civil and also in uniform in public areas, but also from the police inspections with addiction specialists in the scene of the district. And, of course, close cooperation with the police, with the offices of the city of Vienna, with the social institutions is necessary, because otherwise it would not work. The police alone will never be able to finally solve addiction crime, but it has it under control. But in addition to this addiction problem, there are still a number of other problems to be dealt with, and it is time that there was also a relief from the working police. Of course, the demand for the 1,000 police officers in Vienna remains true on our part, and the SPÖ Vienna has also made a signature action with Zig thousands of signatures. However, a response to this is still pending. In this context, I would also like to mention my parliamentary request to the police, to the police personnel situation, to which I have received an unmistakable answer. There are, of course, statistics. I have a monthly statistics from May, and if you look at it, it is quite clear that police officers are needed here in addition. But the workplace situation in many police inspections should also be improved. In my district there is probably the smallest guard room in Austria, where urgent improvement and enlargement are necessary. Finally, I would like to express my thanks and my appreciation for those police officers who, despite this difficult situation, do their best every day in extremely difficult circumstances to combat crime in the service of the population. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18907	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18928	Mr President. High house! It seems cynical and shows the arrogance of power when the representative of the SPÖ, Mr Plessl, goes out here and says: Well, the opposition applications could mature even longer, they should stay in the committee for even longer. – This only indicates that you are not at all willing to do so. Demands, and if they are still so sensible, they are actually going to be. We will therefore not take note of this committee report, because it clearly shows that initiatives are categorically rejected by you in the safety field. We have already debated the safety report in detail today, and we have different perceptions: the one of the ministers of the Interior, who wants to tell us that it is all right that says it is a beautiful day, Austria should be happy – although it is also supported by its figures in the safety report that exactly the opposite is the case. And as crime increases, particularly addiction crime increases. If the Greens get out of here and defend the practice and talk about the decline in advertising in drug offences, this does not correspond to the facts. But from our point of view, nothing else can be expected from a party that advocates and fights for the legalisation of drugs. Of the Social Democrats, who are also in favour of this policy in the interior area, it should be expected that they will be able to gain more understanding of the staff situation. Are you not actually talking to those involved in the election campaign? Don't make visits to each department? There you would hear that reality is quite another, that addiction crime is no longer done, because the necessary logistical equipment and equipment for officials is not available either. We support the two initiatives that are necessary to increase officials to combat addiction crime. Of course, we also support the BZÖ's request for temporary reintroduction of border controls. – If you look at the statistics today, you only need to look at the fact that, when, in connection with the European Championship, Schengen borders have been re-controlled in a limited time, crime has fallen over this period. The teaching profession of police officers has already proved itself: I would like to remind you that this practice was practiced by the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna between 1974 and 1984 and that the police practitioner, who was thus able to rely on a form of multi-annual and practical training, has proved himself there. It is therefore necessary to make available human resources in particular here. As SPÖ and ÖVP procedure with these opposition parties' requests in the committees and also in the plenary session, it is no different from: Here's the arrogance of power! You will certainly not solve the real security problems with this kind of policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18986	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 757 of the supplements. If you give your consent, I would ask for a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 758 of the supplements. I'm asking for approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Opinion on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 759 of the supplements. I'm asking for your conciliatory sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:22:22]] Agenda item 2 vote
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19044	We shall come to the vote on Agenda item 2 on a draft law in 755 of the Supplements. Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the amendment of the Z15. If you support this request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote on the supplementary request by Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the insertion of a new Z 59a and a new Z 70a. [[Abg. Krainer: Where is the colleague Vilimsky?]] Whoever supports this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever supports the draft in third reading, I would ask that it be approved. The draft was adopted by a majority in the third reading. [[18:24:09]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (658 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Gambling Act, the Sales Tax Act 1994, the Fees Act 1957, the Tax Administration Organisation Act 2010, the Financial Criminal Act and the Financial Balance Act 2008 – GSpG-Novelle 2008 (GSpG-Novelle 2008) (783 d.B.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (657 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the gambling law and the 2008 Financial Balance Act – Gambling Law Novelle 2010 (GSpG-Novelle 2010) (784 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19088	We come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first word is spoken by Mrs Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19117	Ladies and gentlemen! We have now discussed intensively in this House for a few weeks about the two novels to the gambling law and the novelle on the financial compensation law. We have once succeeded in disposing of these novels from the financial committee's agenda, and we would also have called for a redundancies to be made once again in order to give this National Council a better law to be completely different. Why a completely different law – we are bringing in a very, very comprehensive motion for a resolution? – Quite simply because there is no protection of players in this law and because this law only represents the interests of the perpetrators, that is, the organized gambling and the national leaders associated with it, and in no way represents the interests of the player protection. There has now been a very strange discussion and a very strange situation in the Financial Committee: I have never experienced a law in which the representatives of the government parties have made so many factually reasoned considerations and in which there has actually been such a great willingness to talk about them in peace and to think about how to introduce a protection of players in essential respects. If I let all the discussions happen, there has actually been a single Member who said that this is a superlaw. – This was the representative of Westenthal, who has rightly pointed out to us that, unlike many of us, he knows the scene and has a certain assessment perspective. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... the player card!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I have the player card!]] I must admit that from the speaker's desk: These experiences, as well as my colleague, Mr Krainer and many other members of the Committee on Finance, are missing. However, I do not assume that the discussions in the Financial Committee are now the result of the fact that we are carrying out these experiences together. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Submit a request!]] I put forward a joint motion for a resolution, and this joint motion for a resolution was not yet a matter of course at an early stage. For my colleagues, Mr Krainer, Mr Weinzinger and Mr Westenthaler, I should like to repeat: and Mr Westenthaler, the motion for a resolution which reads as follows: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Look!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The sun is rising! All of a sudden!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] What do we want with that? – That’s quite clear: We, all of us in common, want a report from the Minister for Finance, in which he puts us on the table, which makes it possible for us to draw up a legislative proposal from the Financial Committee. The aim is not, therefore, because as a Member of Parliament, we could not do that, a government proposal as in the present case, but an own-initiative proposal from the Financial Committee. – I consider this to be quite reasonable in view of what we have experienced in recent weeks. Secondly, What's going to happen? – We now have a very dangerous situation for players with the law to be passed today: Although we have an improvement – players must prove themselves, and if they have not reached the minimum age of 18 years, they do not enter the automatic casino anymore – but there is no longer any rule in it. The switch-off rule – which turns off after two hours – has proved pointless in the discussions of the Financial Committee, because we have come on it: After a minute, he'll turn on again! That is, the player sitting in front of his favorite machine doesn't even have to think about it: Do I go to the neighboring machine and continue to play there?, but he says: I take the free alcoholic drink from Novomatic, do a swallow and continue to play on the device and can use up to €72 000 again in the next two hours. – All of this is possible. Even if a player from a Novomatic casino would be assigned, he could go to a casino or video lottery terminals of the Austrian lotteries and continue to play there, there is no legal and no technical obstacle. Now we've said: Let's make – and there's no data protection problem at all – a personal player's card for all casinos a personal player's card for all casinos not only for Ing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And who had the idea, Dr. Pilz?]] Westenthaler, but for all those who want to go to a casino, and we make it business across. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say honestly who first had the idea!]] That is, if someone can no longer play at Novomatic after two hours with this player card and goes to the casinos or to the VLTs, no machine works for him. It's over for that day. Moreover, restrictions, for example once a week, and what is very important when it is necessary, can be technically planned for personal loss limits on this card. If, due to conspicuous game behaviour, it becomes clear that people are ruining themselves and their families, then this card should also be able to stop. Technically, this is not a real problem, but contrary to the limitation of the duration of the game, data protection issues will be very plausible because data protection is not a simple matter, and therefore we will have to look very closely at this in the Financial Committee. In my opinion, this motion for a resolution does not draw any poison from the present gambling law novelles. What you want to decide today is a law full of poison teeth, but what we have now agreed together is the introduction of intensive dental treatment by the Financial Committee. And this too is worth it to us, because it is the beginning of an attitude, as I would have wished it to and for myself by Parliament earlier: If we do not get from the Federal Government what we want in the interests of the families, the youth, the addicts and the addicts, then we will take it and try to work in Parliament on a better law. We will not do this in the next few weeks, but we will be presented by the Minister for Finance with the documents. We want to commit him to that and, next year, we want an initiative that we hope will be able to adopt by the same majority. I would just like one thing – and I just remember the following: We have also unanimously asked the Minister for Finance to submit a bill to us on another matter. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's right! Financial service provider! Where's that?]] – It involved investor protection, pyramid games, financial service assistants. What is Novomatic today was a company called AWD at the time of the joint initiatives of the National Council, which – I say very carefully – has the same potential as Novomatic. All of this should have been here a year ago. The Minister of Finance was obliged to present this House before the summer of 2009. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where is it?]] He hasn't done it until today. I am not only boldly seeking not only as a colleague of the committee, but also as the colleagues of both government groups, not only to make sure that we make it different this time in the gambling law, and to remind the Minister of Finance in good time that we have committed him to a presentation, but also to make it clear to him now that the investor protection which Parliament has made for its cause is finally to be followed by the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... what he says about it!]] It cannot be accepted that the Federal Minister for Finance, who has the expertise to solve these problems, simply ignores a joint resolution of the National Council for one year without reason. And – once again – I hope that this does not happen to us on this question. I make a second request – this time a amendment – of which I do not yet know whether the members of the government will agree to it. The proposal is to the fullest extent available to the President and to the House, and I will describe it in its cornerstones. This request summarises all 35 amendments to the Rules of Procedure announced by us. We will therefore be able to assess this jointly in a voting process, and I would like to thank the Members of the Government for not making it necessary for us not to have the Green Group's colleagues participate in 35 votes – thank you very much! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... wouldn't even have your own group...!]] The main points in this amendment are: First: Clear restrictive rules for maximum legal use – 50 cents and not 10 €. It must not be possible to insert €36 000 into a slot machine in one hour. Secondly, A completely different time of the games. Not one game per second, but a maximum of one game per 5 seconds. Thirdly, A whole series of player protection provisions, such as automatic loss limits in the kind of Norwegian model, the player card that I have already described in detail and some other detailed measures more. Furthermore – and this is not insignificant – a change to the request for the revision of the Financial Balance Act: No guarantees from the Republic of Austria and the Minister of Finance for the success of the law, i.e. no guarantees that, in the event of country revenue from gambling, the federal government will assume responsibility for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] No regulations in such a way that, if the countries do not have all the machines they are allowed to set up, the federal liability will be shortened. No rules in such a way that, if the countries do not make the maximum bet and not one game per second, the federal liability aliquot is reduced. Clear rules for the Video Lottery Terminals. Clear ceilings for the video lottery terminals. Absolutely the same player protection rules – whether the automatic is set up by the Austrian lotteries, by the casinos, by Novomatic or by other private individuals. Further: An advertising ban on gambling, a ban on party financing by gambling companies and many other detailed formulations of these main claims of these main amendments. All of this is for discussion; all of this is for the vote. I am perfectly aware that this time you will vote in favour of a law full of poison teeth. I assume you will not agree to these amendments. It is also natural – and we have made this clear from the outset – that we will vote against the current amendments to the Gambling Act and the Financial Balance Act, but I note once again the positive: Firstly, in an amendment, we have jointly negotiated some small, but nevertheless very reasonable, improvements, and secondly, with the motion for a resolution, Parliament announces a serious attempt to take player protection as seriously as some of the national leaders and some members of the Federal Government did not wish to take it seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means: For the first time, the issue of family protection, youth protection and protection from procurement crime plays an important role, and I am therefore pleased that we have made this joint proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19363	The motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, Dr. Pilz, Weinzinger, Ing. Westenthaler has been properly introduced and is under negotiation. The same applies to the amendment tabled by Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament, by Dr Pilz, colleagues. This is being duplicated and will then be distributed. I declare that a request for a separate vote has also been made on this amendment. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20047	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20068	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I join the last words of my previous speaker Peter Pilz: I am also pleased that the constructive climate in the Financial Committee has caused us not just to get through a government template here, but have really and always tried to find an answer to the question: How to make improvements? As the chairman of the Committee on Finance, I have repeatedly sought to achieve a broad consensus for many years. I am never ashamed when good proposals come from the opposition to include them in the deliberations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We take you by word!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: AWD!]] And if we have a legislative novel, the four parties agree, with the fifth party holding a comprehensive amendment, now we have a comprehensive resolution, then I have to say, this is ultimately the result of this incredibly constructive climate in the financial committee. I would like to thank all the political groups for this cooperation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr Pilz, I also have other words, the words of my colleague from SPÖ, Jacky Maier. Then I agree completely with him: I too am not 100% convinced that all the provisions of wisdom are final, but he said in the Financial Committee: It would be irresponsible not to take part in this law, because it means a quantum leap compared to the previous legal situation. What's been up to now? – In recent years, there has been an incredible wild growth with incredibly many illegal gambling offers. Now we are creating a new regulatory framework with three basic pillars: more player protection, more control, more supervision. More player protection – you mentioned it yourself –: Access controls, age 18 years, completeness, photo ID must be shown, data is stored for five years, and we create uniform minimum and security standards for players. We create more control, there is an automatic connection of all gambling machines to the Bundesrechenzentrum. It's very easy: Whoever is not connected is illegal in the future. We also create more supervision through our own “SoKo Gambling”. That means: We not only create all the conditions for player protection and addiction prevention, but also create conditions for efficiency of control. That's really an essential thing, I'd say quantum leap compared to the previous situation. I also like to admit that I have been very committed to a point that may be just a detail, namely on the question of a national license for a poker casino – for a simple reason. I've always said this publicly: In my opinion, it would be regulatoryly unthinkable for the legislator to withdraw from the market a firm that discovered a market gap that was very successful 15 years ago, today employs 400 employees, by law, he may be such an even more annoying competitor for established casinos. This could have done the execution, that could have been a court, but it is not the legislator's task to withdraw businesses from the market because they are a competition for other businesses. I am also pleased that we have made it clear to the Committee: We urgently need a regulation for online gambling. We are not yet that far, we still have to wait for European developments – I say Italy, France, Germany. We also need to look at technical developments, but this is a very rapid development. That is why we have said that we need to make a legal regulation for online gambling as soon as possible, but at least in this legislative period. And one more word, Mr Pilz, because you have so often taken the name Novomatic into your mouth. All your criminal charges will have to be resolved by the courts. I say only as a representative from Lower Austria: We have a high-tech company, which has thousands of jobs in Austria and worldwide, and which is world market leaders in some areas. I would like us to have in our country several of those companies that are world leaders in innovation and technology. Your accusations will have judges to clarify, I will not interfere. This is the case of the courts. But it is irresponsible to criminalise and make bad such companies. Other topic: I am pleased when I see my friend Peter Haubner here that we have also dealt with the question of sport promotion with 80 million schilling. [[Calls:Euro]] - Yes, 80 million €. Congratulations, dear Peter, you've been through it. Peter Wittmann was there too. So, if these two act for the sport, then most of the time they look out for the sport as well. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I am pleased that we are today deciding on a new regulation of the gambling market, which is really a quantum leap. We make sure: Player protection, control and prevention; and with our own source of funding, we also create the financial conditions for this. We are taking an important step, and I am aware that further steps will have to be taken. That is why we have also written an evaluation into the law, and we have established in the Committee – I have already mentioned it – that we also need to deal with the issue of online gambling as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20149	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20171	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You have to let the right light shine on this whole causa again. This novice of the gambling law did not come about because young people have made themselves punishable out of their quest for a game and therefore have to make procurement crime. This law has also not come about because of the concern to protect families, children and young people. And this law has not come about because of the concern to ensure player protection and the wild growth in this area, especially in the communities, but this law has actually been created by the lobbying of a private entrepreneur, by lobbying for the so-called small gambling in Lower Austria. And it comes from lobbying from “mafia” – under quotations – tendencies of the player industry, the gambling industry. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But go! Stop!]] So it is, and you have to take note of that sometime. There's no such thing as little gambling, and there's never been. And all Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians in here know this. The little gambling was never one. These 50 cents in the short time were very quickly large summaries – summaries of turnover in shortest time. And the little gambling was there to Abzocke – really: Picking up – and there was to pull the money out of the bag to those who are at risk of play, their families to take the money out of their pocket and to lurk money. And that was it – more or less it is not. That was the pudel's core, and that's also with this gambling law that we're discussing here, again the pudel's core. It's not about preventing illegal gambling. I am convinced that no Member of Parliament, no Members here, will say: You're supposed to force illegal gambling, I don't care. - No, it's not! But the one thing, namely to really prevent illegal gambling, and the other, namely to grant player protection, can, in our opinion, also come together in a law. The automatic casino operators are at the heart of this law. I just don't understand why ÖVP and SPÖ, or just social democracy doesn't make players' protection first, because from the beginning, but in some areas enslaved that they simply say: [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is the first place!]] No, it can't be! First of all [[Abg. Dr. stupid: The player protection!]] I don't have a 50 cent bet anymore, I have a 10€ bet. That's the first thing to do. It is not the first thing that families are vulnerable to poverty and should be protected. It is not the first thing that young people should be protected, otherwise we would have banned advertising in this law, otherwise we would have had comprehensive player protection provisions in this law from the start. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sports promotion ban!]] This argument now comes back with the ban on sports promotion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: These are millions!]] I have already told you in the Committee that the tobacco ban has in the long term not reduced the level of sport promotion – and everyone is happy about it. It would be no problem to regulate it by law if you wanted it. But this is less aimed at BZÖ, but more towards SPÖ and ÖVP. That is, the constant stimuli are the danger. So far, easy access is the danger. And – this is not yet contained in the law – the danger is that protection zones will not be regulated, especially in the communities. It is in a committee statement that countries should take care of how protection zones are particularly concerned with schools, about kindergartens, about railway stations, to set up cinema centres, where young people are staying. [[Abg. Grosz: It might be good to take protection zones against drugs to make schools! Against drug crime in schools! Her wife Rücker in Graz doesn't allow that!]] Why are these protection zones not regulated? And whatever's missing, that's the treatment offer. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a social insanity. We have already talked so much about social policy today, so much about humanity. As a representative of ÖVP and SPÖ, you have only spoken about humanity today – and I can only say to you: This law is anything but human.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20303	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20364	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20385	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Pilz says that he was so surprised about this open climate and about the constructive discussions, this may be due to the fact that Mr Pilz is never in the Financial Committee, not even in the Budget Committee, for: We always have this climate. We often have many major legislative proposals that we are negotiating for so long until there is unanimity, because the essential financial and budgetary decisions and framework conditions – and I believe that all the leaders of the political groups agree – are so important to the House and therefore we want consensus here. So I can only say: If Mr Pilz is a more frequent member of the Financial Committee, he will experience this climate more often; perhaps he will only argue with other colleagues whom he banishes from there who may be in the Financial Committee. At any rate, it is good that we have maintained such a high consistency and good level of conversation in this area – and it is also nice if Mr Pilz, although he has been in Parliament for a very long time, has learned something new here. This law is about eliminating the wild growth that has occurred in recent years, as well as the many ambiguities in federal and national regulations, but also especially in enforcement. In some cases, there are more machines in so-called prohibition countries than in permission countries, and with this law we create a credible rule that is clear, which is permitted and what is not allowed – and we also create the authority that can and will execute this. That is always an essential question, not only to write anything into a law, but also to ensure that it is executable and is executed – and we do so with this law. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] A key point in this law is the word “control of players” and all that has to do with player protection. In retroactively – perhaps in ten or 20 years – one will certainly say: This was actually the time when players started to establish protection. So far, there has been no such word in the law at all. With this law we create facilities for high access restrictions, complaints are extended, recovery possibilities of each player are extended. My colleague Jacky Maier has been particularly committed to this, but also many from other political groups, including the Greens. It is a good thing that we will achieve this standard for the first time and that all the political groups agree that, if that is not enough and we need to expand it, of course, we will take further steps. On the third theme, on the people who work in playbenches, in machine salons and so on, and that we also get a high standard as high as possible. In the long term, the following is foreseen – initially, play banks have to submit to the Ministry of Finance in respect of their training regulation –: In cooperation with the concessionaries, with the BMF and with the other competent bodies, a training regulation is to be drawn up to ensure that there is as high a standard as possible and as high as possible worker protection provisions. I hear that works councils are here from playing banks, which was also an important point, that of course workers' interests are represented and taken into account. Another important point – that has already been mentioned – was the question of sport promotion. The sports spokespersons of all parties are very satisfied because this law of course means a plus to sports promotion. I have heard from all the political groups, at least from the sports speakers, that they agree very much, even though they may not agree to the law as a whole, as in the case of the Greens. In conclusion: There is an extensive amendment, extensive committee statements, once again a motion for a resolution in the plenary session – all unanimously between all political groups. I think there is a clear 85 or almost 90 percent majority of Members in this House for this law. What's missing is the online gambling game. And many reporting obligations should ensure that we as a house can say whether this law goes in the right direction or not, and that we may be able to re-adjust. Overall, we agree with this law and expect a clear improvement for people in this country and for regulated gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20459	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20480	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The gambling is apparently a hot matter. After all, two years had to be discussed about how to handle it. In the end, we recognise that there is a regulation here that improves player protection and also improves the prevention of gambling. Since this intention is given, we have decided by the FPÖ to accept this law. Nevertheless, a few points you have to point out. There are a few criticisms, some of which have already been raised. An essential point for us was that the Internet gambling is not regulated at all; it is still not. However, the Committee has now made a clear definition of all the parties to regulate it during this legislative period. As I said, One can only hope that such decisions will then really be observed, because they are not, as is known. That's where you have to have confidence. But since the intention is the right one and it has also been recognized that a regulation is necessary in this regard, let us now assume that this will be done. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Have confidence in the government!]] “Have confidence in the government” is a hard word. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I now have confidence in you, Mr Dummful – yes, just – because I have noticed your honest efforts, and I take you into account, of course, of course. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A good start!]] You certainly understand that too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point that we do not like is the increase of the game bet in the casinos, this already mentioned 10 €. However, this is still a better regulation than before, because there has been no limit at all so far. Why we have chosen such a high amount is not quite understandable, but therefore we should not be called into question our basic consent to it. Another point that is bothering us is that the concessionaries in some federal states, who have partly long-term concessions or unlimited concessions, are now losing their concessions due to the new law-making process and have relatively short transitional periods of only three or four years. And this is a very short period of time for planning a human being, for economic planning. This is something we would have liked an extension to be carried out. There is at least a somewhat longer deadline in the Styria. But we didn't get through with that. This is a negative point, but it has not been decisive now, because there is a fundamental intention. At least one plus point is access control. It is, as all the experts have told us, a very essential point that there are a lot of players when they have to declare themselves when they just get into a casino with a card – from all kinds of social layers – to go to a casino. This regulation should contribute very significantly to improving the protection of players. The motion for a resolution, which has now been tabled and which has been put forward by all the parties, represents a motion which we have already tabled. Vienna: the demand to introduce a player card. There you have to clarify the problem of data protection, but apart from that, it is exactly the right access that you can monitor the player specifically, because then the player protection becomes really useful. Then you can also find out: How many times does someone play? How does he play? Because of his behavior one then sees very quickly whether he is actually addictive. There are also scientific studies. And then you can filter out these people and, if necessary, exclude from playing. So this is also a very positive approach. We also hope that this will actually lead to an implementation. All in all: a step in the right direction and therefore our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20546	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20567	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the Greens. Mr Pilz is already gone, Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill, either. Too bad, because what bothers me a little bit is: I believe that almost every second word in the Greens in this debate is 'forbidden'. This irritates me in so far as the Greens are concerned when they moved into Parliament – I know none of them are there now – as a world-wide, progressive-liberal movement. And I believe that the ban is the natural enemy of a progressive-liberal, social-politically-worldly movement. However, today I hear from the Greens the word “ban: ban on smoking, ban on gambling, ban on advertising for certain things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] With regard to advertising, I would like to inform Mrs. Windbüchler-Souschill – just to remind you – that the tobacco ban on tobacco has almost led to the ruin of some football clubs in the early 1990s. At that time, suddenly no advertising was allowed to be made. But all this has already been forgotten! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] On one point, however, the Greens are inconsistent, namely when it comes to drugs. In this regard, we hear nothing of a ban, but we hear of release. That's where the addiction can be frowned! The young people are also involved. – I mean, your line on this whole question is a bit incongruent and therefore not to maintain, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Dr. Pilz, you too have been written in the main book: Finally, stop evading Austrian companies that have a success story! Then I join Günter stupidly: Yes, the Novomatic in Austria also has a success story! It is a successful company that has not been blamed. At least all your allegations made in the committee have been resolved so far. And you'll see what's still going on in court, whether it's going to happen at all. They enjoy immunity. We'll see! Now you've given a very different speech, you've been very careful. However, in the Committee you have repeatedly talked about Mafia and criminal organization, but in turn you have been worried about the poor families of the playthings. – I am also worried about these families! However, I am concerned about at least as many families of 2,700 Novomatic employees in Lower Austria, who, when they come to you, suddenly work towards a criminal organization. How can you actually argue that? Imagine that suddenly children at school are addressed regarding their parents: Aha, who work at Novomatic; the fungus says that is a criminal organization! – Is that fair to the families? No, no, no, That is why I expect you not to make such accusations public all the time, if you have no evidence at all, Dr. Pilz! That's what you're saying. This company accounts for €2.5 billion in sales and this year alone in the small village of Gumpoldskirchen has €90 million in new investments due to the establishment of the International Headquarters. You shouldn't forget that either! Therefore, do not always express suspicions that ultimately lack any basis! I am not talking now about social and cultural sponsorship and everything there is. As we have heard, all possible social events and sports are sponsored. It is therefore necessary to be careful here, and I therefore ask you to refrain from these criminalisations and other regulations! Yes! I think there's really a need to do something against gambling. In this respect, I am with you. But also in this context, you were very nebulos. Every game addict is worth a lot to me in the fight against gambling. However, they claim that there are 160 000 playful people in Austria, while Mr Maier, whom I have learned to appreciate as a consumer protectionist, says that he is always very well informed, says that it is between 40 000 and 50 000. That's a huge difference, Dr. Pilz! That's a huge difference just from the numbers! There are probably much more alcohol addicts in this country than in comparison, but you also do not demand that alcohol be banned because that would be nonsense, since every ban only triggers a counter-reaction, namely the passage into the illegal and criminal. And that's exactly what we want to prevent with this law. Indeed, it is always better to me if there is an orderly, regulated player market and not an illegal one that cannot be controlled. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the core of this law. There is nothing other than that the little gambling is equated with the big gambling game by means of licensing procedure and identification barriers et cetera. You can't have anything against it! On the other hand, I have something against these many small criminal chambers that shoot out of the ground everywhere like the mushrooms. We both have something against it. There are illegally two or three machines, there the game is frowned, and there are no controls. These institutions will no longer exist under this law, but there will only be more licensees who now have to make the more stringent corset of player protection. In addition, there will be a ceiling or a maximum number of machines in this country depending on the inhabitants of the federal states. This will mean that we will have around 10,000 machines less in Austria. This is a success! That's good, and that also means a successful fight against gambling and for the protection of players, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, this is also the end of illegal gambling. This can also be argued monetaryly. Today, we know by means of investigations that, due to the illegal gambling, around €300 million is missing from taxes each year, and the Internet is even more so. That is why the whole thing is certainly a regulatory progress that we can support with our agreement. We don't do that because we're having so much fun today, but I can tell you: We from BZÖ and our colleagues from ÖVP have been trying this already since 2001. Since then, we have been working on it, and in truth this is a continuation and development. That is why we are committed to this law so that it can be regulated. However, I also practice criticism. There's something missing, too, and I hope there's going to be something else. There is a corresponding committee statement. I'm talking about a regulation of online gaming. That is why it is so important because This area has unsustainable conditions. A billion € is currently going abroad via online gaming. There are studies that say that by 2012 there will be €6 to 8 billion that are missing from us due to online gaming because there is no proper procedure in this context. With this in mind, we are in favour of the introduction of a licensing procedure for online gaming in Austria, also with strict player protection criteria. Above all, however, a corresponding share of the money being played there must remain in the form of taxes in the country and must not go abroad. It is not satisfactory and almost a staircase of history that Bet and Win received two licenses in France last week, but not in Austria so far, because this is not possible here. It is bizarre that today the first country in which licenses for online gaming are issued to this company is the country in which the two managing directors were put behind castle and bars a year and a half ago! That is to say, it has developed a little further, which is important and correct, and we therefore believe that we should also come very quickly to licensing and to a corresponding law in online gaming. Mr State Secretary, I would ask you not to wait until the end of the legislative period, but perhaps to present it within a year – this can be drawn up on the basis of the current legislation. – so that we can get proper conditions in this area as well. I would also like to thank the chairman very much. That's what you have to say. We have often criticised the fact that the committees simply do not discuss it. In that case it wasn't! It was discussed in detail. I would simply like to say that this was almost a little too much for me, because special meetings were constantly convened, which we did not all need. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the detailed discussion. I think the result can be seen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20680	Next speaker: Mr Lopata State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20701	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The gambling law was in the basics – you hear it! – in 1976 in the form that we have had it so far. What has changed in the law since 1976 is the currency. At that time we had the schilling, now we have the euro. And that was the last adjustment to 50 cents and 20 €. This is the legal page. But, of course, reality has changed dramatically since 1976. Above all, the technology has changed, and with the technology the so-called little gambling. What was then one-armed bandits, with which one has pulled a lever with which a roller mill has been set in motion, has now turned out to be highly modern electronic devices. However, politics has not been able to come to a new arrangement here, and even now we have often been at the chicken, and until the end I was not sure if we were able to reach this four-party agreement. There are, of course, totally conflicting interests, and we are experiencing in this context what constitutes Austrian federalism, namely in a special aggravation, because within the federal states, as far as the small gambling is concerned, there are at least two categories of federal states, namely, the non-prohibitors on the one hand and the permit countries on the other. The legislator removed the slot machines from the monopoly scheme in 1976, and once the countries have something, they have it and hold it, and it is not easy for the federal legislator to come to a settlement. I am really grateful to the Members who now agree, because if they do not agree, this would be guaranteed for the families and the children and the young people you have spoken about, a thousand times worse than what we have achieved today. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] That is why I say to you: It was high time we managed to get a regulation today! I say again at this point: With the conditions created in 1976, political responsibility was given to the country's legislators, and they regulated it quite differently. And I say very clearly: Of course they didn't have 50 cents in the eye! For example, with 50 cents in Vienna per month, how could you generate 1 400 € of pleasure tax? And similar amounts are also available in the other countries of authorisation. That's why you're not supposed to hypocrite here! The increase to €10 we make at first glance is a huge increase. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes! That's it!]] Yes! But at the second glance it looks something different! You know what was possible with these automatic start keys so far! Otherwise – I repeat – you would never have come to this €1 400 in revenue per month to pay this pleasure tax! And I assume that the automakers in Vienna are not all just about to be bankrupt! That is why I say to you: Let's stop hypocriteing! The two largest Austrian companies have 26 000 jobs abroad, and here in the country we will have the legal gambling between 6 000 and 8 000 jobs. There's no such thing as being against gambling. Do we want that, or don't we want it? You have to give an answer to that! - That's the first point. Second point: I prefer to intervene in these areas of regulatory policy rather than forbid everything in the knowledge that the game will flourish around Austria, very close to the border. I'm from Styria. You don't need to drive ten kilometers there to get to a big gambling temple. I was in Slovakia 14 days ago. What was planned in Bratislava by the old government, but which was now elected, was a mega gambling salon right on the Austrian border. [[Abg. Weinzinger: In Pressburg!]] In Pressburg! In Slovakia they say Bratislava, but I like to tell you Pressburg, that's no problem for me! [[Abg. Weinzinger: Thank you!]] Both are in Central Europe and belong to the European Union. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would like to say: If we had not done so now, we would of course have problems at European level because we would not have the European legal basis for tendering for lotteries and casinos at hand. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We could have done this better!]] This has not been mentioned today. To this day, we had no uniform standards for small gambling in the federal states. Now we have these minimum standards. Mrs Moser, you are still speaking. I'll tell you: The state legislator now has it in his hand what he makes of the law. There are currently five federal states that have zero on the revenue side because they are banned countries. With the €10 we have put in a top frame, but it is the responsibility of the national legislators, who then make use of the law, where they place the upper limit. The countries have insisted that the further matter of the national legislator is. They know the draft submitted by the former Minister of Finance. You tried to regulate everything by federal law, but you can't. Where are the very great progress for me? First of all, we do not want children and young people to get close to the machines. By introducing the obligation to show a photo identification, and because of the fact that it is usually only played in playrooms, children and young people do not get close to the machines at all. Second point: So far, those on the move in the fight against illegal machines have often been discouraged because the legal framework conditions were so weak that they could not act effectively. That is why we have a population of thousands or perhaps even tens of thousands of illegal machines in Austria. From the day the law enters into force – I can promise you – we will be on the road with SOKO gambling to bring in these many thousands of illegal machines. But even where legal machines are located, ladies and gentlemen, there is an enormous restriction. There are currently 4 000 machines in the Styria. When this law enters into force, it will be 1,000. That's something! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] All of this is not taken note of by you! But this is a great step forward. It has already been mentioned by colleagues Krainer: So far, we actually had no means when it came to addiction prevention and player consulting. There is now clear progress on this too. Last but not least, I would like to mention that sport is one of the few areas in which even in years in which we have to save and consolidate, because of this legal regulation which we are making here today, there is no less money available on the federal side, but more money. Such a law is always a compromise. We couldn't handle everything with this law. I am now making a start at European level on online gambling. If there is no progress there, we must quickly find a regulation in Austria. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] Of course, it is our job to move forward. Finally, I thank you very much for the many constructive discussions. We have never walled on the government side, but when good proposals have come – and they have come from all political groups – we have taken them up and, as far as possible, have taken into account in the law. I am glad that four political groups agree with this bill. I mean, we have some too long transitional periods. In this respect, I distinguish myself from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. If you still have to watch three or four years in individual federal states in the small game, then of course this is a necessary transitional period, for example, if you reduce from 4,000 to 1,000 machines in the Styria, then you cannot do this overnight as a legislator. I assume, however, that in the other federal states, as I have been assured by the state legislators, the transitional periods will be abolished very quickly, in order to immediately implement the federal law into the respective national law. I am glad that Finance Minister Pröll succeeded in creating what was previously impossible for the finance ministers to put the gambling in Austria at a new level, and that is certainly a better level than the one we had before.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20813	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20834	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! With this novel, you can say: Good thing needs a while. And it has actually become a good novel. I too would like to thank Mr Lopatka and his team very much for this initiative. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, the Secretary of State has gone out of the way, and I think it is very important that we have achieved many improvements here. There is certainly still some potential for improvement in some respects. That's what's set in motion. But now we do a first big step forward for more player protection, more control and more supervision, and I think that's right. What is of course – and that is why I would like to thank you very much as a representative of the sport – is very important to ensure federal sport promotion. Here the following is particularly pleasing: If you look at the development in recent years, you can see that in 2000 we are still at about €33 million, and with this law we will reach the base of €80 million. This basis of €80 million ensures the future of 14 000 Austrian clubs, especially the basic work in the clubs, and this is very important for Austrian sport. It's like this: By making international comparisons, it is clear that sports promotion is also financed specifically by gambling in other countries. That is why it is good and right that this is also the case in Austria. With this financial basis, the volunteers of the Austrian associations, whom I would like to thank very much at this point, also make an important contribution to prevention, to health promotion and to more movement in schools, and we can be glad that we have taken this step. I would like to thank all those who have contributed very much. I would also like to thank Günter Stummvoll and the other leaders of the political groups for taking this sport into account in their reflections and thus giving a clear signal for sports in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20883	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20905	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The current legal situation in the gambling law was no longer acceptable. The implementation of gambling legislation in connection with country law has led to a disastrous implementation of all the provisions of gambling law. Therefore, it would simply have been a mistake not to innovation this law. It would have been irresponsible to all those who visit casinos, automatic casinos, betting offices and the like. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to thank Günter for his willingness to address proposals made by our group. We have not really been able to enforce ourselves in all respects, but in essence, in particular, in Austria for the first time in the Ministry of Finance, an advisory board or a body dealing with issues of prevention and control of gambling. I am really grateful for this, and I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that is absolutely necessary. We do not need to discuss the number of pathological playful and troublesome players. There are only estimates in Austria that one goes out of 34 000, the other of 50,000, 70 000 and another of 120 000. With this point we have the opportunity for the first time to explore how many playful people there are actually in Austria. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, the essential provision is not only the connection of every machine to the central computer of the Ministry of Finance, but it is that there is a new recovery provision, which is aimed not only at concessionaries who may operate machines illegally, but also at any operator of a machine, in any federal state. If the provisions of this gambling law, which we will decide today, are violated, then the corresponding machine can be confiscated. There are two separate procedures: on the one hand, the normal criminal procedure and on the other hand, a recovery procedure with a notice. According to the provisions of this law, the machine must then be destroyed within one year. I am so glad that there is this provision because I have been trying to find out for six years how many machines in Austria have been confiscated and destroyed. No one could call me a number in this respect – neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of the Interior. These new regulations, in particular with the reporting obligations, will now allow us to control the gambling in Austria and ensure orderly conditions. Finally, one sentence: High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think we should also take care of the competition halls and the competition offices in Austria. Unfortunately, they are still within the competence of the federal states, and we have the biggest problems there. Youth protection provisions are not complied with – the countries are responsible – and workers' rights are suppressed. I am thinking only of the current discussion about an approved competition office in Vienna, where an operational council election was prevented and the two colleagues were released without notice. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We may be able to reach a common line in this area too.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20968	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20989	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! One of my previous speakers, Harald Stefan, has already argued why the FPÖ will ultimately agree to these new laws. These are primarily regulatory reasons, one has to say at this point. Better, there are legal regulations than this wild growth door and gate are opened and allowed. Finally, these new laws were discussed in the Financial Committee from top to bottom and from left to right. It was very interesting, fruitful discussions, and I think that at the end of the day we have come to very interesting legal regulations. We also think that these legal provisions make it possible to limit money outflows over – I would almost say criminal – networks and internet gambling abroad. This is certainly a very interesting variant. The main points – I would like to summarize them again – are worth a discussion and, as has been said, have moved us to agree to this novel. Finally, the slot game – known as “small gambling” – is clearly regulated here. There will be improved protection of youth and players, with comprehensive access controls. Thus, the hubs will not only be present in single branches, but they will be introduced across the board. There is a ban on the so-called automatic start button and a ban on parallel running games. There will be maximum application limits, maximum profits and, ultimately, corresponding warning systems. Of course, what is also a very crucial thing is that the slot machines are connected to central computers of the Federal Accounting Centre, which, of course, prevents tax evasions that have so far been in these “criminal” backrooms, as you can say so beautifully where illegal machines have been, and where they have been. Of course, you can no longer manipulate the sales of these machines – that was the case in the past – and that is a good thing. Long speech short sense: We're seeing good improvements here. The licensing procedures – and I hope that they will be carried out objectively – are also a good thing. There will be no more dubious poker salons in the near future. I personally like to play poker, but I think that if you license this and clearly forgive it, you will also specify clear rules in this area. Finally, allow me to put something in the direction of the Green Group – Peter Westenthaler has already done it before –: I find it really embarrassing that the Novomatic group from Gumpoldskirchen – I grew up in Gumpoldskirchen and there have my roots – is so undifferentiated. You need to know that there are almost 800 jobs there that Novomatic has invested almost €100 million only in this location. And this successful company, which conducts its business just as professionally as other companies, is not simply used as indifferently here. – It certainly can't be! I'd like to say something to you: The jobs are just one side. The other: 100 million were invested, and mostly in professionals, in painters, in construction companies from the district of Mödling. In other words, there was, of course, a corresponding added value, and it would be easy to say that this company is more or less criminal and has to do with strange powers. – This is too short for me personally, I would like to say clearly here at this point. Finally, you can also be sure – the FPÖ is not the patron of the gambling companies, quite the contrary, there are now legal regulations, that is good, that is important so – that we will continue to look at these gambling companies in the future, whether all these provisions will be implemented. We will react quickly and hard, should not be so. In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21045	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21066	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It has already been said a lot on this issue today, but I think it is very important that you really light up the current situation. I'm from Lienz in East Tyrol. There are locals, restaurants, bars where there are two, three machines. I have looked at this very carefully during the last months: There, from 10:00 in the morning until far after midnight, the same and very many very young people sit in front of the machines and throw a lot of money into them. This is even so far that families slip into poverty. Ladies come to me and say: Please, honourable Member, help me, talk to my husband! This goes so far that the last euro is carried in such a play area or in such a back room and thrown into such a machine. Only if we manage to stop that, and if we achieve that all these people have to prove themselves, so that we know who plays where, that it is no longer possible for 13-, 14-year-olds, as I have observed in the country, to play on these machines, then much has already been won. This goes so far that even at gas stations there is a wild growth at such machines. So if we succeed in bringing this to a halt, we have won a lot, and that is especially not only player protection, but also family protection. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are certainly also some criticisms of this law – we will continue to work on it; Peter Westenthaler is already leading – one thing is already said: The countries too are now in demand. We only have a minimum standard today. The countries are very likely to tighten these laws. I hope that this wild growth, when the countries intervene on a massive scale, will once and for all be halted, that in this sensitive matter very much will be done by means of precise access rules – when the photo ID shows who goes where. Above all, there are no more single devices, and there is much better supervision. I should also like to say: Today we are talking about addictions, which act in part like alcohol diseases, which are partly criminal in order to get money and throw it into such machines that are operated by any illegal, I almost want to say, gangs. I've talked to some executive officials who suspect them in the Czech Republic or what I know where. There's a company in Vienna, a company like Novomatic already much better, where we really know what's happening, and where we can be sure, above all now, that the staff will be trained and that trained staff will certainly take action to ensure that there is no law violations. All these machines are, we've heard this many times now, networked with the Bundesrechenzentrum. This is really hopeful that not only all taxes will be delivered, but that you will really see exactly where is being played. There the new SOKO gambling can really focus on if it is necessary. I am sure that this new law protects the players on the one hand, and on the other – and above all – the families on the other. One more thing: It really can't be that any political group is going here and a fair company that is investing the funds again in Austria simply gets very dirty. That's what I'm trying to keep from doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21120	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21142	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! It was undoubtedly a very difficult, complex matter, and certainly not the most sympathetic regulatory matter. But I think it has always been our common goal to increase player protection and preventative effects. We have not made it easy, and the result is an expression of this intensive work and is making decisive progress in the sense of the common objective. Although there is a constant need for further improvement – we will submit to it – it has been a great deal of success for the time being. Only one number shows: There are currently 18 534 slot machines in Austria. The new scheme will only be 8 414. That means that there are 10 120 machines less, so more than half has been reduced. However, Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill is wrong in the motivation for this legislation: Above all, it was necessary – under a certain amount of time pressure – to reach today's novel, because we must ensure that our gambling system meets European requirements in the future in order to maintain the game monopoly. This is essential, however, in order to prevent – which is often legitimately feared – that the international gambling mafia in Austria enters. In this context, I would like to appeal to my colleagues, Mr Pilz, who Much of it very much appreciates: As Members of Parliament, we should deal with our responsibilities and our influence with great care. To criminalise companies behind the protection of immunity is not responsible for dealing with our task. Much has already been said by previous speakers. It is about 2,700 people who work at Novomatic in Austria and who have to be put into it when such accusations are raised. I hope, anyway, that we do not confuse what our task is and what the task of the courts is. It is those who have to examine and judge such accusations. That is why our Constitution rightly and wisely enshrines the separation of violence. Let me conclude by saying: We will now be with the same intensity and commonness, I hope to turn to the regulation of Internet gambling. ==References== In June, the European Court of Justice adopted a direction-setting decision which will enable it to be licensed nationally and associated with it. That should encourage us. I am We will also have a legal corset in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21193	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21214	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that in recent years and in recent years, gambling has changed considerably more negatively. The background is new media, modern electronics, Europe-wide and global offers, and also the case law, as my previous speaker mentioned. All of this affects the development in the gambling sector in Austria enormously. Recently, technical tricks have also been developed and applied to avoid the protection provisions professionally. Especially the player protection was actually led by these measures to total farce and ad absurdum. The present draft law, the amendment proposal, the Committee's decision and also the motion for a resolution tabled are a matter of regular intervention in this sector. The main topics are youth protection, player protection, and we also provide the opportunity for strict and efficient review and prevention of circumvention tricks. For the first time, uniform national minimum standards for gambling companies are laid down. The slot game and the video lottery terminals are reorganised. The machines must be connected directly to the Federal Accounting Centre. I believe that this is one of the most important provisions, because it makes it possible to have a comprehensive control in several directions. In addition, in the amendment, the financial donation of the Advisory Council – which was already mentioned in praise – was decided for addiction prevention and addiction advice. The new access system has been quite precisely defined and a training system has been commissioned for employees in the game industry. The Committee's conclusions and amendment were unanimously adopted in the Committee. I believe that alone – and even today’s discussion – is proof that we are not just taking one step here, but really making a quantum leap in the right direction. Even if it is not a hundred percent hit, it is, I think, the right start and the development in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21255	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21276	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My colleague, Mr President, was right when he said that this law is not the final conclusion of wisdom. A large drop in advertising from a liberal point of view is the still far too high upper limit of €10 for us – even if you see it differently, Mr State Secretary – the three-year transitional period for gastronomy and, above all, the not yet regulated internet gambling area, because you know that over €1,000 spent on the Internet according to statistics of each Austrian household in the year for gambling is spent over €300. That is why it is really essential to regulate this area quickly. Mr State Secretary, we have heard your promise, you will also speak and see that this internet area is being regulated very quickly. It remains to be said: That's all I could do. Nevertheless, our liberal demands – which would be there: Addiction prevention, youth protection, the networking of the machines with the Bundesrechenzentrum, which was an important requirement, and also the prohibition of multiple games – will be implemented. We will agree because a total ban would not be a viable solution. It is good if we wait for the experience of practical implementation and, after the evaluation of the gambling law, we re-regulate and dissociate any uncertainty afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21312	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21334	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This is an extremely important matter that has been waiting for a German-level regulation for a very long time, and in some way a framework for national legislation. Even in my time of government in Lower Austria, as a result of the event venue, I have always had to deal with the little gambling. It would have been much, much easier at the time if we had already had this law. I think that this is progress and I really see it as positive. As the term “player protection” always falls: Of course, family protection must be a concern to all of us! We have also had the illegal field widely available. Now, as Secretary of State Lopatka gives us the honour here, let us just point out that such laws always make sense when there is actual control. I remember having an official in Lower Austria controlling this by the way. It's like a fight against windmills. If you do that, you have to school properly and also put together a decent team with a corresponding strength. Mr State Secretary, if I consider what you have to do with pointless savings in the financial sector, that you always close your eyes to desk officials in the ministry – which seems to be becoming more and less and less – and where control should be exercised regularly, this does not make me very optimistic. I hope you can convince me, on the contrary, that the financial sector is really taking this seriously and is really taking control in our Republic, because the worst thing that happens is simply the illegal area. We now have the opportunity to intervene in orderly. It's just with a working control. You promised it in your speech; we will be very careful to ensure that you actually implement it. To the idea of networking and connection to the Bundesrechenzentrum: I still remember well – that must be quite exactly eight years ago – to Professor Gustav Adolf Neumann, who was introduced with this idea. At that time he was rather desperated and believed that we did not come to a breakthrough. From this speaker's desk there is also a warm thanks for the commitment that the great Lower Austrian Gustav Adolf Neumann has always time-consuming to ensure decent conditions in an area in which there is a certain gray zone! As a low-Austrian, I am happy when we have skilled companies with many jobs. I think it is the wrong way to criminalise this; we should think about it in the Green Group and go into it. I mean, anyway, the employees there have not deserved to be pushed near Mafia organizations.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21376	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21397	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) When I was on the 26th. Feber’s petition on “Glücksspiel-Wildwuchs on the example of the market community of Jenbach – an unmistakable and dangerous development” was actually not predictable – and it was made quite little hope for me – that it would come to a solution relatively quickly. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his team, especially Philipp Sutter, who has coordinated a lot so that this has become possible. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think that many citizens in our communities, where gambling problems occur, are very grateful for the fact that there is a consensus across parties here today. From my point of view, there are three points that make gambling so dangerous. First, of course, it is the threat to society – which has already been presented x-fold today – because gambling is simply increasing and there are new local and new appearances on the Internet. The The second is the implementation and the challenge for the authorities, and the third is economic. I think that to shape this mix was actually the challenge in the past. I believe it is important that we continually improve the law in the future. I therefore also welcome this joint proposal: improving, optimising, evaluating and addressing current things. Secondly, I believe it is important that the Internet gambling game, also in coordination with European standards and technical developments, be revised and adapted. The third is – and that is, I believe, in the interests of all of us: We must stop and combat abuse, illegality, manipulation and also fraud in gambling. I don't think it's just a thing to ban, problems don't solve. It is the better way to create and work on framework conditions here. In this sense, I wish that we have framework conditions with the gambling law, which allow us to have proper and clean regulations for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21447	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21468	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In addition to the regulatory requirements that this government template, which is intended to bring order into the player market, I see two or three other areas in which there can be much added to the protection of players. On the one hand, it is very important for me that it will be mandatory to have a staff training in the respective institutions. the concept of how to deal with gambling and a collaboration with player protection facilities. I think the employees in these salons, in these companies, have a sense of it, yes, need to be able to develop a sense of it, so to speak, to take the next step that is planned in the sense of a warning system, namely the player information – you have been daily for so many times, how does it look? – down to the player's lock. All of this, I believe, is an essential point and an essential task for the employees of the salons, since it is also appropriate to be vigilant, in addition to the advisory board or the newly established body in the Ministry of Finance – in cooperation with the Federal Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Consumer Protection – where information work on gambling is carried out. Spielsucht is a disease, and if educational work is done, people can better deal with it. Addiction prevention is an essential area to be processed in this newly created place. Advisory counseling and player care are with one point, up to the development of best practice examples and models, namely in the collaboration between the gambling concessionaries as well as authorisation holders and the player protection facilities. When all this is evaluated in 2014 and recognizable mancos show up, it is urgently necessary that we take them back and re-establish them so that orderly player behaviour in Austria can be possible – because that must be possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21510	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21532	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this government template, I believe, we have reached an important stage on a very, very good path. Further objectives will follow. Today, overall, it has often been implemented how important this legal measure is in relation to player protection and wild growth. When I think of my state of Salzburg: We have not allowed a small game of gambling, and yet there are about 2,000 machines; we can now at least have them. Overall, it is an important side effect that the safeguarding of the gambling monopoly for Austria is also achieved, precisely because of the implementation of European standards and requirements. If one has seen how difficult it was to come into a common arrangement and put it into a legislative text, then one can think of how much more difficult it will be for officials, especially in the ministry, to implement our regulations, in particular all the technical equipment and programming that is necessary to do so. That's a really big task. I wish them a lot of success and thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21565	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21588	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! This change in the gambling law puts economic and social objectives within a framework. It is up to the legislator to lay down the political framework with standards. With this change of gambling law, an important step is taken towards an enhanced prevention of gambling. The Advisory Board at the Federal Ministry of Finance will also contribute to countering gambling. By setting a maximum win and a minimum duration for the individual games, the search for games will also be restricted. Because of the clear specifications and tasks in the automation area, the player protection is strengthened and more efficient. With the definition of the so important networking of slot machines and the video lottery terminals with the Bundesrechenzentrum, direct control in this sensitive area is only possible across the board. The closure of tax gaps creates a competitive environment between suppliers, and greater tax justice is included in this area. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this novel of the gambling law, a financial contribution to sport is also defined. With a secure sum of €80 million per year – open to the top – financial support is provided from the tax resources of the concessionary of sports. This law is not only a necessary and correct step, but also a social progress in the regulatory activity in terms of gambling, not only in the protection of players and youth, in control and competitiveness, but also in the support of our sport. Thus, today's day by adopting this law is also a good day for sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21626	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21647	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Through the new law, through this innovation of the small gambling with machines, it is especially countered to wild growth. At present, about 10,000 machines are legally established, and the estimates of illegal devices are about to move in this area. In the future, 5 600 machines will be available in the four federal states that have already allowed the slot. It is – and this has already been addressed several times today – intensifying the protection of players, especially with the new rules of access to the automatic casinos, where only full-years – there is a requirement of identification – are admitted. It is also invested in control by the SOKO gambling. Of course, it is also important that the legally established machines will be connected to the Bundesrechenzentrum in the future. For the first time, the job for addiction prevention and player advice is set up at the Federal Ministry of Finance. So far, the maximum use for small gambling has been 50 cents. However, one also needs to know that there were parallel games by which these borders were crossed at weitem. – These tricks are no longer possible in the future. Gambling can become a addiction, which is problematic for those affected and their families. A ban will force the resulting suppression into illegality, and the players will still be active across the federal territory of Austria. – This would certainly not help anyone. On the contrary, with these new legal provisions, starting with training, information requirements and full liability of the operator, a huge step has also been taken to improve the protection of players. A huge challenge will be the regulation of the online gambling game. I hope that the Financial Committee will also work on it as efficiently and as efficiently as it has been before.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21689	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21711	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is completely undisputed that gambling needs legal regulations. This amendment, together with applications and Committee fixing, improves Austrian regulations. Youth protection and player protection, control possibilities as well as evaluation by 2014 are three essential areas I would like to maintain. The problem of Internet gambling will be dealt with soon, as it has been agreed. Of course, I am pleased that this proposal has broad approval in this House and that a success has been achieved for sport. The chairman of the Sports Committee, Mr Hermann Krist, will certainly have some to say about this. Ladies and gentlemen! However, like Jacky Maier, I would also like to address the competition offices, the betting offices that have taken control and can be found at every corner. I know that they fall into the competence of the federal states – I speak of Upper Austria, where action needs to be taken. This need for action is also reflected in the proposals of the major cities, for example the resolution of the city of Wels on the Upper Austrian Landtag, which was adopted unanimously, with the votes of all the political groups. Ladies and gentlemen! For all legislators – as here at the federal level, at least in Upper Austria – it is important to make up-to-date and practicable regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21750	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21771	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, a lot has already been explained on this subject. Four parties are going along, and each of us is aware that this solution, which has now been negotiated over a longer period of time, is a compromise and, of course, cannot achieve completeness, that it must continue to be evaluated, for it is a very important matter that affects not only individuals but, if this fate strikes, whole families are affected. It is therefore all the more important to have achieved this progress towards the present state of affairs. Many important approaches, which have already been explained in detail by my previous speakers today, help to ensure that the law really improves them. They range from the control of the devices themselves to the control of the players or, which is very important, also the care, the support of those who may be vulnerable to playful, to the positive effects that can be expected from the location reduction or the limitation of the number of devices at the locations, because this does not increase the temptations and temptations, or even stay as big as in the past. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I think that these intensifications are very likely to help to reduce the so-called wild growth, improve direct control of players, and thus counter gambling. We need to take care of the evaluation in the next few days. That we also find a positive effect on sports promotion in this law is more than a positive sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21807	Next speaker: Mr Christ. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21828	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! With this innovation of the gambling law, from my point of view, a great success has been achieved as a sports speaker in the sense of a sustainable financing of Austrian sport. The government programme still states: Increase the lower limit from at least € 40 million to at least € 60 million. In the meantime, we know that the lower limit is €80 million, that there is no cover, that even from 2013 onwards we can participate in the development of lotteries, if they develop in this way, even when it comes to the development of the gambling federal taxes of the lottery concessionary. It was important, and this has also been set out in the government programme in such a way as to ensure and reform the financing of Austrian sport, a commitment to the gambling monopoly as a basis for financing, and in the case of – and this was particularly important – a change in the legal framework through European requirements, the creation of an adequate, equivalent funding base. – That was successful! Considering the first proposal of March 2010 with at least €60 million, maximum €70 million without valorization, the current solution is certainly much better. With this we can work, sustainable funding is given. I say thank you to all negotiators in the field of the Ministry of Finance and Sport and, of course, to our Minister of Sport for his consistent attitude to the benefit of Austrian sport.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21861	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21883	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If one criticises that the law goes too little, and the Others believe that it is far too strict, then it can be assumed that we have found a good means in the financial committee. The amendment to the law clearly improves the protection of young people and the protection of players and also, across the board, restrictions on access. The Financial Committee has made clear at its meetings and also in the Committee statements what it is about. However, one thing has to be clear: We cannot forbid playing because the desire to play or try the luck in the game is as old as humanity itself. As much has already been said about this, I would like to say in telegram style some examples of the protection of players, such as the agency to be set up by the Ministry of Finance for addiction prevention and addiction advice, and the electronic connection to the Bundesrechenzentrum, which guarantees improved monitoring and compliance with the requirements of this law. This also includes, not yet mentioned, the certification of parts of the software of these machines, perhaps also with the status of revision security in order to ensure verification. Mr State Secretary, it will be very important that we also regulate the Internet game, which is becoming increasingly widespread, faster. We have done this until the end of the legislative period. I think the sooner, the better it will be. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this innovation is an important step in the right direction, and I am very glad that it will be decided with the agreement of four parties – perhaps of five, the Greens have a few minutes to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21922	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21959	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First I have to defend Peter Pilz. If the MEPs here defend the position of Novomatic Hoebart and Windholz, then anyone may also represent the position of Casinos Austria. In I was so familiar with the Green Paper of the Greens. I already knew that. All these cases have always been directed by the casinos to the politics to explain how bad it is in the casinos of Novomatic. Let's take care of that now. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Very good!]] Now it's a big deal. It has succeeded in casinos over the years, and that was a success of the legislation to push back exactly this game-seeking story, with the installation of the threshold: I go into the casino, I have to prove myself, I can be locked, they wonder if I can afford it at all! – It is precisely by that one has achieved that gambling in the Austrian casinos – great gambling – can no longer be lived out to the extent. Then where did that tend? – It has tended to automate. And right now we are doing the right thing by applying these regulations there, namely, the same word in the same way. This also explains why, in addition to the 15 concessions in the theoretically up to 27 automatic salons, which will be significantly less, because the countries will not give so much, apply the same rules. - Not quite! Sorry! Casinos Australia Representative Pilz, that's important! In the casinos it is so that you can play without a limit that does not turn off at all and there is no 10 € limit. Therefore, you have to look rather when you run a casino, whether you do not intervene against the other casinos without competition. Therefore, the scheme is €10. It has nothing to do with the machines! The individual listing is limited to 1 € and means a significant restriction compared to the status quo. That's it! Therefore: We implement everything, we implement a player protection goal, and we do something meaningful with the motion for a resolution. Let's see how it works! Let us improve what is necessary! And above all, Mr State Secretary, we will make the rules for the Internet game as soon as possible, because there it will be pushed further! We will now experience this: The slot game will be more neat and players will be more likely to be found in the other area. In this sense: more cooperation! This also applies to those representatives who re-open the old documents from other areas, such as Mr Pilz, whom I am very grateful for his objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21998	Proposal for a Council Decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Mr Dr. Strutz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22020	Mr President. High house! We will give our approval to this government template. [[Abg. Haubner: Who is “we”?]] It is an improvement of the status quo. We are aware that the law to be decided today is not the stone of the wise. I give the critics who cannot give the consent, in so far as the search for a game and the search for a game cannot be eliminated by these legal measures – but they can be guided in orderly and controllable paths. We therefore agree because the law will lead to greater transparency and therefore also to greater control and facilitation. It is to be welcomed from our point of view that there is a federal legislation, although the automatic salons and single machines with the strict player protection regulations and supervisory rules remain in national competence. I would like to point out that the Internet gambling game which has already been discussed many times today needs to be re-regulated in this legislative period, because it is a fact that the online gambling with a share of around 40 percent already represents the largest share of total gambling expenditure per household. The abolition of the division of competence is particularly welcomed, since in the past, shared authority competence has at least led to major problems in practice. The networking of all devices at the Federal Accounting Centre therefore seems particularly useful as a control measure from our point of view. There will be a way to better and more effective control and design of youth protection and access to the games. The new licensing procedure and the restriction on the creation of machines will restrict wild growth on the gambling market and allow for measures against the criminal and illegal removal of the backrooms, as has already been said today. For these reasons, we agree with this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22054	Mrs Dr. Moser has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22078	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! From the quantum leap was the speech, Mr. Col. stupid. You know exactly, in the narrowest sense of the word, physically, a quantum leap is a transition to a lesser degree and not a qualitative change in a total process. And that is exactly what applies to this law! Although it offers slight improvements to the status quo, the essential things we believe are going to get worse, namely worse. Mr State Secretary, we know, and there is no point in saying: There is a doubling of the player bet, there is a multiple of the number of games in a certain period of time, and that means, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, a multiple of the problems. Let us look at the problems quite specifically! Go to Carinthia, meet and look at the statistics in the hospital, after the gambling was, as it were, permitted by national law in Carinthia. What do you think the figures in statistics have changed? – Originally, there were six treatment cases, outpatiently treated in the matter of gambling. And now, 233! Please, this is a massive increase in the problem. Or look at the other hospital, De La Tour: Originally 1 percent of treatment cases due to playfulness. And after the state law legalized the machines so to speak – 15 percent. Third example: You may also have seen the “Hohes Haus ” program on Sunday a week ago. There was a good contribution from Kalksburg. A playful person told about her challenges, about her burdens. Finally, her therapist will be interviewed. And the therapist, Dr. Poppe, is confronted with the question: How do you estimate the doubling of the game bet at € 10? – The therapist’s answer was that he quoted a sick plaything. And the sick playful says: San deppat? San die deppat that they double the bet?- Oh, my God! So that was to be heard in the “Hohes Haus ” program. Please, this is, as it were, a feedback from the expert level, because you have brought a gambling law without consideration, without expert hearing and without the affected, the family members – so many who suffer from bankruptcy because members of the family are playful – into parliament. We reject this law, because there would have been a way. There would have been the way to Norway. Norway has made a systematic restriction, although legalisation has been carried out, but the loss of the week is limited to €250. And what are you doing? – You limit the two-hour loss with €72 000 if I have the right memory! There are worlds in between: Norway €250 a week, with us every two hours €72 000. This is your gambling law! And what you do about social problems, financial problems, even treatment problems – please, that is your responsibility, Mr State Secretary. We also talked about this 10-€ limit. Her honest information in the Committee was: Certain areas have been tightened, so we have to raise something at the level. The “increasing” is a doubling, and in combination with the increased number, this results in just this legendary €72 000. That's the way to ruin, and we wanted to stop that. We have really systematically continued to negotiate on player protection. I also need to thank you for the constructive work, for example for the Idea of the player card of Colleem Westenthaler, But in total, the law remains behind the requirements. No online game ban, the betting offices are the problem – we have heard this in series. Finally, another Bonmot: What do you think is the maximum tax rate? – In the past, the maximum tax rate was 80 percent for the auto companies. Thanks to this law, it drops to legendary 30 percent. – We don’t carry that!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22136	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Since extensive amendments or supplementary amendments and requests for separate votes have been tabled and a short interruption of the sitting to prepare the vote is not sufficient, I shall put the vote on agenda items 7 and 8 after the vote on agenda item 9. We are continuing to complete the agenda. [[20:16:38]] 9. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (681 D.B._Other Organiser European Convention on main inland waterways of international importance (AGN) as amended by amendment of 15. October 2008 (745 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22176	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke on the floor. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22204	Mr President. Well, this convention, it reads quite well in itself: Inland waterway transport, ecologically wonderful, goods ecologically useful on the waterway. The whole has only one small, but for my region, namely for Lower Austria, for the Wachau, essential hooks. The issue is that the Wachau should remain as one of the last flowways, and there are serious concerns that the current technical measures, namely the mere dredging of the carriages, will be sufficient to meet the needs of this freight transport. It is said to us from the ministry that this would not be a problem, but the devil and in that case the back door are in detail. The question is, what is in it, how can we change this Treaty? Appendix III deals with the technical details – i.e. how long a suspension bandage is, how high, how wide, how deep the chassis must be – these can be changed. And that by a body so close to the citizen, that is to say, I read it: The main working group on inland waterways of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. There you can imagine about how close-to-citizen they will act. They make a proposal, which will then be sent to the Member States. And precisely where the technology is being addressed, one fifth of the Member States are required to object, and it is not enough as in the Appendices I and II concerning the designation of the rivers or the important ports, the opposition of only one Member State. In other words, we will need co-compatriots if, at once, the technical framework conditions are to be changed by this main working group on inland waterways of the Economic Commission and so on. This opens the back door contractually to do what we do not want – namely, a dam, perhaps including power plant in the Wachau. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] In order to counter this, I shall put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] To this end, corresponding petitions of the Wachauer municipalities – I know from Weißenkirchen – have also been addressed to the National Council, but also a negative opinion from the Wachau working group, the Wachau working group. The Ministry of Life has also given a negative opinion and says: In the future, an expansion will not ensure that one will get out without a stagnation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22276	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22327	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22349	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Environmentally friendly freight transport and the reduction of pollutant and particulate matter are an essential transport policy principle of our Minister for Transport Doris Bures. I would like to remind you that a number of measures and initiatives have been taken in recent months. At this point, I can only remind you of the really massive expansion of the railway infrastructure and the fight against the introduction of the Gigalins. In addition to the rail, shipping is an ecological alternative to road freight transport. Furthermore, there are economic advantages of the transport of goods by ship, such as the reduction of traffic congestion and traffic accidents. Ladies and gentlemen! With the Danube Austria has a waterway of international importance. It is therefore right and reasonable that Austria joins the European Convention on Waterways of international importance. While such agreements have long been signed in the area of rail and combined transport, this has not been the case in the field of environmentally friendly shipping. With the ratification, Austria sends a formal signal that it will assume its responsibility for the Danube section in Austria and will continue to do so, thus providing the shipping with constant conditions. In addition, the Austrian Danube ports Vienna, Krems, Enns and Linz were included in the list of inland ports of international importance and thus strengthened their position. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing I would like to say very clearly here, because it is falsely said again and again: The Convention is not a river expansion programme, it does not require Austria to build power plants, nor does it lead to a deterioration in the environment. The World Heritage Site of Wachau is certainly not threatened by this agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Ha! Ha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You believe that!]] The plan of a Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel, which the Greens are collapsing, I would say, was also taken out of the air. There are neither the Austrian General Transport Plan nor the Government Convention nor the Danube Shipping National Action Plan. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But internationally!]] Such a project, Mrs. Dr. Moser – as we are certainly of an opinion – would not be ecologically meaningful or financially feasible. Therefore, appropriate speculation should be rejected. The ghost of a Danube power station east of Vienna has no real background either. The Danube Auen near Hainburg are a valuable habitat for endangered species of animals and plants and will continue to do so for many more generations. The ratification of the Shipping Convention will bring considerable resources to Austria. These are also largely used again for the renaissance of the Danube east of Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Inland waterway transport is an ecologically and economically important mode of transport. With the Danube, Austria has an important international waterway, and with the ratification of the agreement on waterways of international importance, Austria is committed to its international responsibility for both environmental freight transport and – which is also particularly important – international responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22428	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22449	Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Heinzl! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, if all of this were as simple as you represent it or what you represent it, my dear colleague, why did Germany not ratify this agreement? It is about inland waterway transport, and the Federal Republic of Germany is a much, much more supply-rich country than we are. We have the Danube. Where else is IWT with us? Germany does not deliberately ratify it, because this 1996 agreement – which is a very outdated agreement – is based on the water standards that are enshrined in it, it is likely to imply the power plant expansion of the Danube's upper runway in order to ensure the right water level. If Germany does not ratify for this reason, why do we ratify it? We ratify blue-eyeed. The Wachau is now abandoned. The international agreement is legally binding; what is contained in the Government Convention is legally arbitrary. What is in other confessions – no power plant expansion, whether it be in the Wachau or after Vienna – is arbitrary. This can be changed by law at any time. But here we have an international agreement, which puts us in a legal corset, and this legal corset does not only have the threat of future power plants due to the necessary water level – what Mr Kuracka 2006 for Sheerflein has contributed because he has raised this to three meters; that is his Austrian addition to this international agreement – no, it is still a second essential point. The second essential point concerns a so-called Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel. Please, this is a project from the Third Reich. This now appears again in this international IWT agreement. This is a project – Adolf-Hitler-Channel originally called it – which is now to be updated again, quite specifically through the projects of our neighbouring country Slovakia. They are already planning a freight terminal port from water to rail or road, not far from Bratislava, in the north of Bratislava. It cannot be that we are now perhaps implementing such an insurmountable international agreement into national law and saying: Oh, my God! It's not that hard for us anyway, because we still have other things, A, B, C, D, E, F, G, perhaps another EU Water Framework Directive et cetera. – Only, our problem is, it is an international legally binding agreement. Mrs. Minister! They themselves probably have not gone through the effort – we have – to read all the opinions on this ratification, whether they are from the Chamber of Workers, from the Environmental Prosecutorship Vienna or also from the Ministry of the Environment, the City of Vienna, the renowned forum for science and the environment, the environmental roof association and others, the WWF et cetera. There are a number of objections that you ignore with this ratification. Submission No 1: implementation of the requirements only with massive interventions such as additional congestion; Number 2: opposition to Community legislation, such as the FFH and Bird Protection Directive; Point 3: Objection to obligations Austria from numerous international and international conventions, such as the Ramsar Convention for the Protection of Wetlands – Donau-March-Thaya-Auen –, Bernese Convention, Bonn Convention, UNESCO World Heritage Convention; Number 4: conflicting with commitments that force Austria, for example, in the Wachau to maintain improvements achieved with EU money in LIFE projects; Number 5: Contradict with national law in the field of nature conservation and national parks, point 6: opposition to the applicable legal – also ecological – order of the via donau; point 7: lack of reservations against submission under arbitration decision... – and so on; Number 8: ‘Excellent economic interests are missing and unfoundable’; Number 9: “Interests with other public interests – especially ecology – are foreseeable.” – This comes from the Ministry of Life, the Ministry of the Environment. Number 10: the wrong point of approach for the shift to the ship; Number 11: Excessive deep targets – the city of Vienna has applied this – Number 12: Expansion spiral through explicit AGN targets for modernisation and new construction of waterways. I could continue, but I'll save you the last four passages. Against all these material objections, you blindly ratify an archival agreement that lays down potential bombs for us. I can't do that, Mrs. Minister! That's why we're talking about it. Protest. That is why we will also try to act against it at other levels. It can't be that with this ratification you practically clear the track for a competition on the waterway, which goes primarily against the rail anyway. They do not move any truck transport volumes to the waterway with this ratification, because the problem is that the road is still far too unattractive to the road, even if you are doing a traffic jam in the Wachau, even if you would take a traffic jam in Hainburg to follow this ratification. I am sorry, Mrs Minister, this ratification is such an unnecessary thing, and you are doing it anyway. I don't understand rationally, so please explain this to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22544	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22566	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already noticed in the Committee that the representative of the environmental organizations present there has, in my view, become a fairy taler, and I also believe that he has not served the environmental organizations well if he has told such robbery stories as she has now told Mrs. Dr. Moser in a similar form here. The political reality still applies to me, and I cannot imagine that there is a political group in this country that seriously supports or plans a dam in the area of the Wachau or in Hainburg. So that's once the political reality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: After the contract this cannot be excluded!]] That is why I also believe that this argument, which is led by you, is in fact detrimental to the matter, because it also distracts you from a really reasonable idea. Let me therefore come to some transport policy arguments relating to shipping. If we consider integration within the European Union because of the fact that both the Eastern and South-East European countries have entered the EU, we know that this is an increase in the cross-border dimension. Transport in a range of 7 to 9 percent per anno means. This leads to an overload of both rail and road roads, and in spite of all the extensions that are planned, it is of course a need to implement this rail development for environmental reasons as well. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (the arms widen out) There is still plenty of space on the track!]] Now I'm just giving you one thing to consider: If we assume that a freight tonne is transported 100 kilometres on the road, you will get 300 kilometres of freight with the same energy consumption on the rail and 370 kilometres on the waterway. This should only show how ecologically the expansion of the waterway is. If we were to transport the goods currently transported on the water on the road, we would know that emissions would increase by more than 10 percent. If more goods are on the waterway, that's actually less emissions, it's less noise, it's less accidents, it's less congestion. To this end, the objective should be to develop freight transport by 2015 to ensure that, in the end, a million trucks are transported more on the water than is currently the case. If you see that the load on the Danube is between 10 and 15 percent and the 80 percent on the Rhine, that should also be the goal. Therefore, it is necessary to force the expansion east of Vienna, but without, as has been said, the meagre ideas of the Greens, especially the green organisations, and to put the fear of a dam in the room. I assume that, apart from this three-kilometer experimental course, the expansion will soon begin and I also expect the political action or decision of the Federal Minister. This is applied transport policy, even if the corresponding impulses in the field of shipping are put in place here, when Hungary will have the presidency within the European Union next year. They have already stated that they will make the Danube region the central issue of their presidency, and here it would be important for Austria to act as a pioneer as regards the expansion of the Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22630	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22651	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There are, of course, some fundamental positive arguments for the European main inland waterways Convention to be concluded today. This is, once again, the transfer of traffic flows to the environmentally friendly waterway. So far we go with the thing d’accord. This is not a dispute either, and in principle something very positive for Austria. If you read through the document now, it is built up like a pure statement of intent. Inside it stands “intend to undertake”, so it’s a better LOI, a Letter of Intent. But if you don't go here now and say that's such a LOI or, as some translate, a “liter of India”, practically a Wischi-Waschi-paper, if you don't see the whole thing as a pure intention, but as a contract, then it starts in some points to become hairy. I'm sure I'm going to talk about the sometimes possible intention, but if it's so far, then everyone will just say more – and we've known this in recent weeks from the intra-coalitarian talks: Pacta sunt servanda!, and the whole thing is going through. And I am sure that the EU will at least call it such, we do not call it threats, we call it expressions of love toward Austria as they occur within the coalition. What is it about now in concrete terms, or where are the points where we see criticism points? – In the course of time, it is necessary to make guarantees for the passenger depths or for congestion stages. The cost will be €6 billion, possibly more. We know this in Austria: Such a building is never right, it will be covered by at least 20 percent. And since, Mrs Bundesminister, we already want to protect you a little from possible criticisms, such as today's Court of Auditors on the Skylink project, saying that the project management was under every criticism. I don't think we'd talk about 6 billion euros, but much more. The second is: If we go through these measures, there are projects such as in the Wachau or in other areas where we have environmental problems and where we have, as a result, tourist problems. That means: If we only want to go through certain measures, then we can do that alone, then we don't need this agreement, or we – and I recommend it in the other case – should stick to Article 15, which is the termination. It is said that everyone can do it alone, and we would suggest it in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22699	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22721	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have not made it easy, but we will agree to the ratification agreement. This has the following reasons: We see it positive that efforts are being made here to lead more goods to the ship or to the waterway. We think this is necessary. The train is not equipped to transport so much material. We know this from other discussions. We know that the capacity... – No, it has no overcapacity. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The train has overcapacity!]] On the contrary! I know, I have talked to many economic operators who transport a lot on the track and see the problems and therefore avoid them on the road. I think every truck charge that comes from the road and is transported by the waterway is a positive aspect, and that is why we will agree, even if on other points we may not see the whole positive. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Moser.]] – Mrs. Moser, you've already spoken, now I'm on it. It should also be noted that, of course, a problem is that the railway or especially the road is cheaper than shipping. We see it as an important step in the right direction that something is being done here towards equality, so that shipping becomes more interesting and attractive, but perhaps you need to work on it with other measures, Mrs Minister. What we are also criticising is that this agreement will have far too little impact on the cross-border impact and that a clear common strategy for river-brainers does not appear to be recognizable. Furthermore, it is not exactly what agreements there are for sustainable construction and new construction in this area, but perhaps even more detailed. But all in all, I'm right that as many goods as possible are transported by sea on the inland road. We will, of course, support the request of the liberals regarding no levels of congestion in the Wachau. That's what we see. It is a necessity that this World Heritage Site will be preserved, that it will not be pumped in here, and that is why they will receive our support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22764	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22786	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, we are ratifying a European Convention on the main inland waterways, with the intention of this Convention being clear. It is a matter of making it clear once again that we prefer environmental modes in Austria. Like the railway, inland waterway transport is one of those modes of transport which are more environmentally friendly than road transport. In general, in Austria, we have always had the clear objective – and still, despite ever more difficult circumstances and greater pressure within the Union – that we focus on all the measures that lead to a shift in freight transport from road to rail or inland waterway transport. Allow me briefly to say something about the discussions on this convention and the fear that this agreement will lead to a power plant building in the Wachau. I really do believe that no person in Austria – no one – really believes that the ratification of this agreement on the construction of a hydroelectric power plant in the Wachau comes about. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why?]] The legal framework would not allow this – apart from the fact that there is no such intention on the part of the Federal Government and on my part. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But there are water level guarantees!]] But it is also important to me, ladies and gentlemen, that you, in particular, should always be right, how important it is for us to rely on renewable energies that, without a doubt, hydropower is one of those sources of energy that are renewable energy. Nevertheless, the ratification of this Convention is, of course, far away, there is no intention at all, and I would also like to remind you of the concern or the fear that the ratification of this European Convention will result in a power plant building in the Wachau. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz:...not understood! ... Problem!]] As far as the review is concerned, Mrs Moser: We have been familiar with Parliament's work very well and for a very long time, and I have always taken it very seriously. We have taken into account many of the points that have been criticized in the review. One of the points – especially from the Umweltdachverband – was that the autonomy of the decisions must lie in Austria even if the arbitration court makes decisions. If you decide today, this addition in the ratification will ensure that Austria decides what measures will be taken when, and that autonomy will be ensured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have also mentioned the Ministry of the Environment. This commitment to inland waterway transport is, of course, jointly supported by the government. You've listed what concerns there have been. This has also been strongly endorsed by the countries in the course of the review, and even the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment has said in the opinion – and I would like to give it to you – that I quote: ‘From the point of view of the BMLFUW, the present draft European Convention on Main Inland waterways of international importance is to be expressly welcomed from the environmental point of view.’ I believe that we should not go over things, as it were, but rather take them as they are, namely that we are expressing once again with the agreement that Austria has a great interest in forcing ecological modes of transport. All legal framework conditions – whether this is the EU Water Framework Directive on the protection of the ecological status of waters, or the Ramsar Agreement, the bird protection agreement you mentioned – are fully upright, have full effect, and are in no way restricted in any form. Our regulations on land-protection laws, environmental impact assessments, are not tangled. That's why I'd really ask you. I would actually have thought – also from Austrian transport policy, and from what we always represent at European level in transport policy – that we stand together on this: Austria itself – autonomously – decides the question of power plant buildings, no environmental protection law is limited in any form. All laws on the protection of nature are further upright. We will still have a lot of opportunity to discuss about the fluent overall project east of Vienna, which is its own point. This is also the main point of our desire to protect the Danube Sea National Park and to protect it from the dangers that exist there for nature. Therefore, investment is mainly in this direction. I hope that, with these statements, I could disperse the concerns I would understand, but in so far as in no way are there any questions of power plant construction related to the ratification of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22870	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, no, no, 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22891	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Dr. Moser, dear Dr. Rosenkranz, I can already understand your fears in part, and environmental issues and environmental concerns should always be taken seriously. But when I remember, for example, when I was a countryman in Tyrol or before the councillor, when there were always the fears of the Greens towards the Unterinntaltrasse, this is just an example of the fact that these fears are really unfounded. [[Call the Greens.]] In this case, it has now really been tried several times – by Mr Heinzl, by Mr Maier, by Mrs Bures – to make you plausible that these fears are completely out of the air. In other words, it is always said – especially by the Green Group – that we should rely on means of transport that are really very good at environmental policy, and there is no question that the ship is very, very environmentally friendly. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but that's all right now! What is it now improving?]] It's even more environmentally friendly than the train. The energy consumption in the train is only one third compared to the truck, with the ship it is only a quarter – Mr Maier expressed it in kilometres. Carbon dioxide emissions – which is always important to the greens, which is very important to us all, I believe, – are only a quarter of truck traffic. The noise pollution in ships is extremely low. The truck tonne kilometres are much more environmentally harmful. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But that's all right now!]] The environmental costs – and so on – in relation to the ship amount to the 2.5-fold. Overall, I think we can ratify this agreement. This gives us a commitment to environmentally friendly modes of inland waterway transport, and I believe that we are well advised if we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22953	The next speaker was Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22974	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we decide on the ratification of the European Convention on the main inland waterways of international importance. The Convention completes a number of UN-ECE legal instruments in the field of infrastructure as they already exist for road, rail and combined transport. These agreed parameters are intended to provide an international framework for the planning of the development and maintenance of the European road network and ports of international importance. The Austrian Danube section fulfils this international importance, it is classified as a waterway of international importance in accordance with the technical and operational criteria laid down in the Convention. The public Danube ports in Vienna, Krems, Enns and Linz were included in the list of inland ports of international importance. The ratification of this Convention is important for Austria's economic location and thus a real step, because Austria is an export nation, and thanks to this central European situation, Austria is of great importance as a hub for the East. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, but why does it not do Germany?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Germany as well!]] We are an economic partner for the East and for the rest of Europe, and we are therefore required to improve the framework conditions for this economic location in Austria. With regard to rail transport, Mrs Colleague: We already handle around 30 percent of freight transport on the rails in Austria. We are indeed the top riders in Europe, that is what characterizes us. Otherwise it is with inland waterway transport, we still have capacity, there are figures of less than 5 percent, here we muffle in the truest sense of the word still in front of us. In comparison, the waterway still has some capacity, and we could use these free capacities and relocate transport for shipping and, of course, for the transport industry. The targeted development measures can lead us to increase from around 12 million tonnes to 30 million tonnes by 2015, which would be very important for ecology and, of course, for the economy. In this respect, the relatively low investment costs are also very positive. If one sees that it is in shipping – transport in water – 1 €, compared to just under € 2 at the road or € 6 at the rail, then we can invest eco-friendlyly here. I believe that a clear trend in Europe has been evident in recent years: Transport in the EU is increasing while the infrastructure remains behind this development. With this agreement, we can contribute to further promoting transport in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23029	Next speaker: Mrs Binder-Maier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23051	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to mention that it must be possible to express concerns, to explain viewpoints, and to listen to them. I think that's living democracy, and that's what you have to allow. First point. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. The argument that the EU will go beyond this ratification and this agreed agreement on Austria is rebutted by the fact that Ms Bures has proved steadfast and persistent in connection with the Giga lines. Our Minister of Transport has, together with our decisions, been able to prevent the approval of these in Austria, and that is crucial. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, thank God! Thank you.]] In this context, it is also apparent that one cannot assume that the political leaders do not work serially, do not work responsibly – on the contrary. This agreement is necessary and important. There will be a classification of waterways, certain priorities will be defined, and what is particularly important to me: Despite all of this, all the decisions concerning Austria concerning the Danube are taken by us. What is also to be mentioned is that in Austria we have very strict ecological conditions, in many cases the EIA law comes to fruition. We have a strict nature protection law, we have a framework law and the Ramsar agreement. We therefore have many measures to work well on the one hand, to raise concerns or to raise objections in order to protect our environment and yet to make future-oriented decisions. And I trust our minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23097	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23119	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Government template on the European Convention on the main inland waterways contains internationally uniform definitions of the technical and operational characteristics of these waterways and their ports. Shipping on waterways is not considered to be an environmentally friendly way to transport large quantities of goods. The Danube as one of Europe's most important waterways is already part of the TEN corridor. Ladies and gentlemen! Of the ten Danube countries, seven have already ratified. It is about considerable financial dimensions of EU funds for our country, which I consider very important for the economy in difficult times. This waterway is, in principle, of the utmost importance for the economy of Austria, because it is only possible on the waterway to supply large industrial companies such as the Voest and similar raw materials accordingly. It is about finding solutions that are future-looking to deal with the Danube countries – Countries that in the past have largely belonged to Austria; I can only mention Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria – a connection to the Black Sea in order to enable transport of goods in the most ecological way. The negative aspects at present are that there are low water and floodwater at certain times, and therefore transport speeds and reliability are limited. That is exactly what should be countered. The ecological aspect, however, is one that can be seen to the highest degree here, and it must not only be viewed with one eye at a time, as was the case in some studies, but one must look at the holistic aspect. These are exactly those parts that my previous speakers have already referred to, that one can transport the largest tonages with a minimum energy effort, result in minimal environmental impact, and thus already create an important element for environmental protection. It must also be noted that, due to the limitations that have occurred due to various events in the previous neighbouring countries, there are now considerable free capacities – up to 90 percent – which can be used even more intensively, thus restoring an ecological advantage. There is no 100 percent advantage, but if you have a correct assessment of advantages and disadvantages, it is certainly a 95 percent ratio to the positive and 5 percent that you have to discuss and should also discuss. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, this is a transport policy decision that has the highest positive effect on our home country of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23170	Mr Herzegovina came to speak as a next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23191	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! How was that in the committee? – Mr Heilingbrunn, President of the Umweltdddachverband, there – with commitment and intensification as it is in its own way – very points out his concerns, concerns and objections. I believe that almost every one of us can find itself in any organization that is summarized in the environmental roof association. It's probably not necessary to be hostile to him. Or: Is it necessary to defame him and call him fairytale narrator, speak of robber's stories, and so on? In terms of content, it is not necessarily his opinion, but I believe it is important to deal with environmental issues. I am side by side with him, for example, when it comes to protecting the last freely flowing rivers and floodwaters from small power plants. The criticism is covered, that is not a question. It is completely absurd to imagine a power plant building in the Wachau – world heritage and national sovereignty, something like that still exists – or a waterway construction Donau-Oder-Elbe, which is not at all detractable. In reality, a motion for a resolution weakens these things, which are crystal clear and which have also been made quite clear by the Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, we do not decide that Mrs Minister will ensure that the Danube will be watering in the next few years. I do not think that it is a matter for anyone to take decisions on matters of course. The fluent overall project, which will subsequently be a very important project for Austria, has an ecological side, it also has a meaning and a transport policy meaning. We have carefully examined and fully supported nature conservation and fisheries. On the other hand, Mr Heilingbrunn has objections, for example, and we will also examine them very carefully and take them seriously. If it succeeds in optimizing the project there and there, we should be right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23231	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke for the second time. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23252	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I haven't forgotten anything, but for some I have to explain it again: Repetitio est mater studiorum. It's about us having a contract here that keeps it. We have already had it on the question of the transitional periods of the EU, since everyone has also told us: Now we have a contract, we must not become a contract. There is nothing fixed in this work, but in the back of Appendix III and Article 14 is how this can be changed. In my theoretical game – and this is not intended for a legislative period or so that tomorrow some excavator or similar – it is about what is possible with this contract. It is possible that we are given by this main working group on inland waterways that the technical conditions must be changed in such a way that, in order to be true to the contract, we must say in the country: Oh, oh, oh, we can't be against it alone. Just as it is interesting in Appendices I and II, especially in this sensitive Appendix III, a veto does not use anything, but we need a fifth. Then it comes out that they say: Unfortunately, we need to do a dam to implement these new technical parameters, because the Danube may be too low in water and there is this guarantee. It's not about that standing right in front of the door or that I believe that someone – yes, there are some who want to do this – wants to build a power plant. But with this agreement it is legally possible, under international law. And we want to know this possibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23285	Mr Höfinger is now speaking at 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23307	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on this decision on the Convention on the main inland waterways clearly goes in two directions, but I am convinced that we can also achieve a overall positive outcome if we discuss these two positions under one. On the one hand, there are, of course, concerns about the negative environmental effects on the waters, in this case specifically on the Danube and the Danube, or on various feeders. On the other hand, however, it is about forcing goods to shift to the waterway with the undisputed ecological advantages that result. Of course, concerns and indications about negative environmental impacts are also appropriate and desirable – no question. What does not bring us further, however, are the above-mentioned scenarios and technically unfounded representations, which have been presented both by my previous speaker and by many today and also by the committee. Because one thing has to be clearly stated – I would like to put it explicitly again –: The agreement regulates the framework for an extension, but the decision itself whether the construction of a waterway is carried out is up to the individual state, so in this case also to us. This Danube-Oder-Elbe channel, which has been quoted very often today, is not to be found in the national action plan, neither in the general transport plan nor in the government agreement. Therefore, I assume that there will not be any deterioration of the ecological status due to the flow-building measures, but that a positive ecological effect in the transport sector can be achieved by shifting to the waterway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23349	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mag. Brunner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23370	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! First of all, I would like to make a brief comment on the Committee's culture, which has also been reflected here. If we want to invite an expert and get input from him for a professional discussion, and then he's taken off as a fairytale uncle, then I'm very concerned about that. I think it should be appreciated if someone provides us with technical input, and if so seriously discuss it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second. Somehow the green fears and the green fears have been smiled. We Greens have long shown fears and fears about nuclear power. I don't think anyone's going to apologise any more today that these fears were justified. We have expressed concerns about oil dependence and environmental impact of oil dependence, fossil energy, decades ago. At the latest for a few months – if you look into the Gulf of Mexico – no one will perhaps agree that these fears are more than legitimate, and we have to get out of the oil. Mrs Minister, let us come to the climate aspect! They say: Yes, this is all much more climate friendly than driving on the road. As long as you are still investing more in roads and financing unnecessary projects throughout Austria, this will not bring us forward in climate protection. It would also be a possibility for the ships to adapt to the Danube, and not vice versa the Danube to be adapted to the ships. This Agreement provides for guaranteed water levels. The Ministry of the Environment writes very well in the opinion that these water levels cannot be guaranteed without intervention and that this will only be guaranteed in stored sections. Therefore, fears for power plant expansion are very close. However, if the Ministry of the Environment comes to the conclusion that it is environmentally compatible, this only confirms my criticism that it is not an independent Ministry of the Environment and does not only take environmental interests into account. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it is now said that the Danube-Oder-Elbe Canal is not in the general traffic plan or in the government programme, I say: Okay, but that's not legally relevant either. If we ratify this agreement, it is relevant and I have to give Dr. Rosenkranz the right to: It says that we then undertake to implement the measures provided for there – and there is the Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel inside. You can say a hundred times that we have all the nature conservation directives – fauna-flora habitats directive, bird protection directive, Ramsar Convention. Yes, but we see that all environmental projects or all projects that affect the environment will then be huge infrastructure projects, which will be given special public interest. It is then possible to break down all environmental regulations and laws, and precisely for this purpose this ratification will also create the foundations. Moreover, infrastructure projects are always sold as particularly ecological projects, and everything is better than before. I think we should then stick to what it is, namely a huge infrastructure project, which creates some compensatory measures, but which is certainly anything but an ecological measure. We therefore strongly reject the ratification of this agreement. By the way, I believe that Austria needs a strong, independent and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23444	No one has been reported here in the word. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Transport Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 681 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request: The French and Russian language versions of this State Treaty are in accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG by making it known that they are involved in public consultation at the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on the preservation of the World Heritage Site in Wachau. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I inform you that the Croquis has not yet been put to the vote on agenda items 7 and 8 and that the vote on these two agenda items will then be put to the vote on Agenda item 10. [[21:10:42]] 10. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (684, e.g._Other Organiser Federal law on safety measures in foreign aircraft and air carriers (746 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23522	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Heinzl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23549	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There are very good and very strict safety rules for EU-based airlines. Restrictive provisions shall also apply to third-country aeroplanes that wish to launch or land in the EU. The EU's black list of airlines whose launches and landings in the Community are banned because of serious safety deficiencies covers all 21 pages and well over 100 airlines from all over the world. This list is supplemented by regular checks. Airlines from third countries starting or landing in the EU shall be subject to random checks, the ongoing compliance with the security provisions shall be checked. The EU Directive to be adopted today lays down rules and procedures for the even more effective enforcement of international safety standards for aircraft from third countries. The review of aircraft and crew needs to be harmonised across the EU and information on defects collected centrally. Any emergency measures against safety defects must also be harmonised. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Single rules for the inspection of third-country aircraft will further increase air safety for passengers, crew members and the population on the ground. The highest premise in the field of aviation is: Security is ahead of economic interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23583	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Maier. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23604	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to remind the Federal Ministers that we have agreed in the government programme to draw up an aviation strategy that we do not know until today. I would be glad if you could tell us today when we can expect it, because, given the situation in international aviation, I was particularly interested in the aviation strategy of the Federal Minister for Transport. It would also be necessary to recognise the Austrian strategy in connection with the Single European Sky. However, let me briefly comment on the forthcoming airport fee directive, which we want to decide in March next year! As I hear it, there is to be the review in autumn and now, at the end of June, a kind of beauty contest in which the users of airports, as well as airport managers are heard. As you know, these are now a little controversial about the ways. Therefore, I think it would be necessary to define the political will decision. I would like to ask you what you are doing in terms of opinions and what procedures you will choose, whether you can imagine putting in place a similar procedure, such as the “digital dividend” as you are planning to implement, and how it is supposed to involve an external third party, an expert, who analyses what the economic, economic and economic effects mean – or whether They remember to also use a regulator or to define regular formulae. Regardless of the economic location of Austria and, in particular, Vienna, the question also arises in the area, how it continues with the airport and how it looks like the cost of this Skylink investment, which, as we hear, will be extremely high. Will that be the passenger? Will that be the airports? Will that be the airlines? Is the existing administrative procedure appropriate to take the right measures, or do you need other steps? [[Call the FPÖ:When you throw the managers out, that would be really interesting!]] I would be interested to hear from the Federal Minister how she sees it. I believe that it will be necessary – this is applied aviation policy, and I would have expected it on the issue of the aviation strategy –: How do we deal with the location in Vienna, in Austria – keyword: third slopes? What impetus is there on the part of the Ministry of Infrastructure so that such an advantage can be developed as quickly as possible? As we know, there are Europe-wide bottlenecks as far as slopes are concerned, so that seems to me to be a very important measure. Mrs Bundesminister, in summary, I hope that we will receive an answer from you today to the question of when the aviation strategy exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23638	Next speaker: Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23659	My President! Minister! High house! Flying is getting cheaper and cheaper for the guest. Between 20 and 70 € costs a flight within Europe when booking early. At the same time, airline costs are increasing, fixed costs, airport charges are increasing. Our AUA has also become a criminal offence. There is, of course, a risk that the airlines will start to save on service and maintenance in order to bring these costs back in, because they can no longer charge to the guest. The times when airlines could demand high prices for scheduled flights are over. Now you only make more price dumping, look more and more down, far seeks to regulate the price more and more down. The danger is, of course, that you have to save somewhere else. This may be with the staff, with the service, or it may happen in the service and maintenance of the machines. There is the old flyer and pilot statement: They're all coming down, the question is just how. But if an accident occurs, it is particularly dramatic because many passengers are always affected at the same time. I looked at an accident statistics on the Internet. It is interesting that the destination plays a role, for example, Asia and America are more dangerous than Europe. It is also interesting with which plane you fly. A DC-9 has an accident probability of 19 : 1, an Airbus of 37 : 1, a Boeing 747 of 52 : 1, the Airbus A330 but for example only of 943 : 1. There's the probability that hardly anything happens. These dangers must by no means worsen, so we welcome a uniform EU regime.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23695	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. 2 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23745	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Silhavy! Mrs. Minister! Of course, my long-distance goal is also the unspectacular cycling in the international aviation sector – no question. In any case, with this perspective of this international agreement, we will also be very happy with all our heart. Mrs. Minister! But there are other things that are very dear to us. No question, Mr Maier, we do not just need an aviation strategy, we need an infrastructure strategy as a whole. We need a strategy for aviation, road, rail, waterway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier.]] – It’s nice to see you, even broadband. This has to be done because the interrelationships are strong and synergistic. But now go back to aviation. Mrs Minister, the Court of Auditors clearly identified and clearly identified the whole mess at Skylink, according to the report of the press tomorrow. The documentation and also the authorisation to be examined at all is based on our green initiative. We have organized the Syndicate Treaty, which forms the basis for the Court of Auditors' audit. Now it is quite clear that Black and Red, the State of Lower Austria and the Land of Vienna, at the expense of either their own pocket, speak of their own taxpayers or at the expense of future passengers or at the expense of various other people, have caused massively exploding costs in this construction measure. The construction management was miserable, the control was miserable, the awarding mechanisms did not work properly. Total: I don't know how it goes. We already have complaints from Lufthansa regarding further development, and complaints from the AUA. Mrs Minister, it is also necessary to clarify how your assessment looks! If the Lufthansa Schwechat wants to make the hub for freight freight in air transport, how does it look with the night flight ban? What will be the future of the locals in the house? Because freight air traffic is usually night traffic. The second question to you – quite specifically – about this noise protection regulation: We know that there are deteriorations, especially for the airports of the federal states in the regulation which you intend to see, which is already available to us for consideration. We also know that it is only after the municipal election in Vienna. Tell me! The third and last question – quite simply – is: If you are already breaking a lance for shipping – okay! –, also for freight transport on the rail – okay! –, why prefer Are you still taxing aviation? Why is there no fuel taxes in the aviation sector, why are they partially exempt from the basic tax? When do you finally make tax justice for modes of transport, so that the shift towards rail is getting more and more started? Farewell from the lobbyist for aviation, to support especially of rail freight transport! This “pollutant competition” for the railway must no longer exist! Speak and answer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23800	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23821	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In order to be able to answer Mr Maier's question in a moment, I may be taking this away from you, Madam Minister. –: Mr. Maier, since this debacle was filled with Skylink by the Lower Austrian head of state Erwin Pröll and the head of state in Vienna Michi Häupl, and was occupied by the party politics with unable managers – so they have to answer that too! – I would suggest the ÖVP Lower Austria and the SPÖ Vienna charges the higher costs that have been incurred. That would be – I believe – the right thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is a good idea!]] Now I want to come to the EU directive. Of course, everything that serves the safety of people is to be supported – in that case, an idea of the EU, which is also to be supported. One must clearly say that air safety is a very sensitive issue. Especially there is relatively little room for free. I believe it is important that people also know that those who fly over them do not fall down. We know that we can avoid a lot of damage and suffering. I think it's important that the highest standards are in air traffic. This should apply not only to European airlines but also to others. Equal opportunities for all, security for all, best security for all of us. That is why we will be happy to agree to the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23865	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23886	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This legislative innovation adapts the national legal situation to EU provisions. Europe-wide harmonised effective enforcement of international safety standards for third-country aircraft flying Community airports must be implemented quickly. The 2004 Directive has been extended by a new one with regard to criteria for conducting field inspections. Austria has with the original introduce numerous content of this Directive through security measures. Few adjustments to the current novel are the positive result. Prior to the entry into force of the Directive, qualification criteria for inspectors entrusted with the supervision of foreign aircraft were largely non-binding. Now, legally binding training and quality criteria are defined more precisely not only for inspectors, but also for the procedures used to eliminate deficiencies. The present draft also provides for the verification of compliance with international safety standards not only for aircraft and third country companies, but also for those from the Community and those landing outside airports. We agree with the law, because it is not only about increased air safety, but also about the importance of the air transport industry to safeguard Austria's economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23928	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. – 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23950	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! – Mr Donnerbauer, but in particular all those who have contributed to a consensus matter here: [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] It's very amazing! Mr Hagen, I do not know what you meant by the Skylink and the attack on the head of state in Lower Austria. It was he who had the construction stop that exchanged management. I do not think this should have been noted in Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Hagen: Nevertheless, it goes down! It didn't improve!]] But this proposal is very good! If parties here are to assume responsibility for a project that is being further developed, that it is an economic project that will bring revenue, then – I believe – it is already a difference to see when one says that the BZÖ should actually take over the funding of € 17 billion for the mortgage. [[Abg. Hagen: The ÖVP too! The Martinz wasn't there, Mr. Colleague?- Oh, my God!]] They're gone. They're not coming anymore. They're gone. I would be very reluctant to say so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to Mrs Moser's speech: This green “honey moon ” that broke out today! She will gladly agree to this law. And then you'll make a proposal again, namely to tax the passengers with a kerosene tax. That's absolutely amazing. In the previous debate, I have just missed the European dimension of inland waterway transport in the Burgenland, introduced by Mrs Brunner. It's really hard to say as greens: We are actually opposed to the shift to the waterway, but we were the ones that were already against nuclear power! – Mrs Brunner, when was it that the Greens were already against nuclear power in 1978? The greens haven't been there yet. There you have to learn a little story! But, well, that was the previous debate. We are in aviation safety. I can say that we will vote in favour of this legislative proposal. He brings more security, he brings more cost-effectiveness to the location at the airport in Vienna Schwechat. I hear that all other parties will also give their approval. Thank you, until the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24011	Mrs Bures spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rädler, I would like to thank you very much for the fact that you have now also signaled your group's approval of this agreement, because I was not as sure as Mr Maier, as he actually says, that we are ensuring more safety in the airspace with this agreement. I think there is no doubt and there is no doubt that aviation is also of great importance in a global networked world for an economic location. I think it is also in doubt that we must do everything we can to prevent negative effects in aviation as far as possible. This is true in two areas, namely noise pollution to the population, where there is a very high level of concern, but also, of course, with regard to pollution. I'm going to comment on both of them very briefly. It is important to me that we involve the stakeholders of the industry in terms of a strategy in aviation. Therefore, in creating the roadmap we are working on, it is necessary that all those who work in this field in aviation can also speak in favour. I think it makes sense, as I said, to involve those involved in aviation – whether that is the economy or the airport, whether this is the Austro control – in this strategy. There are very intense and very constructive discussions. As regards the issue of Single European Sky, I believe that the importance of larger airspace in Europe after the volcanic ash cloud has become clear again and that there are many good reasons why we are working to actually limit the airspace in Europe, which currently consists of 35 airspaces, to nine. I believe that this reduction in airspace through the Single European Sky gives the opportunity to show that economy and ecology are not a contradiction. In addition to more safety, what can we achieve with only nine instead of 35 airlines in Europe? - We'll have shorter flight times. Shorter flight times mean less kerosene emissions. Less kerosene emissions mean less pollutant emissions and less costs for airlines. And we will be able to react much faster in terms of European votes with nine airspaces, because there are fewer interfaces than is the case at present at 35. I have also helped the last Transport Council at European level to discuss this again with the Transport Ministers. I can tell you that Slovenia is currently in charge in our airspace, Central Europe, which is Austria. I will visit the Slovenian Transport Minister in the next few days. We will discuss the implementation and acceleration of this common airspace, also because, from next year on, Austria will be presiding over. I believe that this is a very important project, which will also have a high ecological and economic benefit and will also ensure greater security. As far as the issue of air noise is concerned, we need to find, as I mean, several approaches. I am also convinced that we need to see this more holisticly. Since I am also responsible for applied research, I can tell you that, with regard to technology development and the construction of turbines in aircraft, of course, with technical progress, much can be done to reduce fuel consumption, but also to significantly lower noise levels. The new Airbus A380, which has only recently landed in Vienna and Linz, has around 30 to 40 percent lower noise levels than the usual Airbus aircraft had in the past. This means that we also have to invest in research and development, because this is a significant contribution to the relief of the population, for example in the field of new technologies, we can achieve a lot in terms of noise development. I have no doubt that the thresholds agreed in a mediation agreement with the population regarding the third track at Vienna Schwechat Airport are binding in an exemplary way. Therefore, the draft must apply the noise thresholds agreed in the mediation procedure for the third runway. I do not think I have to say anything about the issue of ownership and where all the issues relating to the Vienna airport need to be discussed. I also believe that I do not have to deal in detail with issues relating to eco-taxes, taxes on fuels, because this falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance. It is, of course, in a package with the Minister of Finance to clarify which new taxes he is introducing and whether this is a consideration. In Germany this is the case. I think that there are many good reasons why we should ask Austria to introduce such a tax. But that is, as has been said, a fiscal policy issue and therefore a debate with the Minister for Finance. I should like to point out once again – I am referring to what the first speaker, Mr Heinzl, said – that this federal law is once again a question of greater security, that we must have better training for those who control the aircraft, that there should be black lists for aircraft with serious technical deficiencies, so that we have more controls to make airspace and aviation safer. The focus, the priority, is, with every understanding of the economic situation of airlines, clearly where the safety of passengers and the safety of the population are concerned. I am grateful for the fact that, as far as I know, all the political groups in this House are giving their approval to this security package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24100	Next speaker: Mr Keck. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24121	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Flying is getting cheaper and cheaper. This also increases the number of passengers and flights. The number of smaller aircraft – charter flights, business or transport jets – also increases and increases, but also the toughness of the competition is constantly increasing. The flight operators are trying to minimize more and more costs in order to: Profits to achieve, although they sell their flights partly at sluggish prices. There are offers Linz-London at 5 €. And then some airlines try to introduce a toilet fee. This is a funny, bizarre example, where the airlines then start saving. But it will be serious about the fuel habits of these airlines. It is refuelled where it is the cheapest and as tax-free as possible. But it will also be serious at home airports. Only where the fees, including the handling and security fees, are the least popular. Especially serious, ladies and gentlemen, it will then be in engineering and maintenance. Not a few of these airlines also save here. The EU has already responded in 2004. Since 2006, aircraft from third countries have also been allowed to be checked. It is therefore the right to impose immediate measures and the complete documentation. The essential content of this federal law, which we now decide, is the implementation of ramp inspections on foreign aircraft, EU and third country air carriers and their crews at an domestic airport by specially trained inspectors of the ACG, the imposition of security measures with regard to foreign aircraft or foreign air carriers that wish to fly, fly or leave in the Austrian airspace, and also the determination of the qualification requirements and training of SAFA inspectors. Ladies and gentlemen! For Austria with its Eastern Europe hub in Schwechat and its nine national airports, which are increasingly flown by smaller business jets as a destination, this is the right step towards further risk prevention and security of the population and passengers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24161	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24182	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! With the government paper on the Federal Law on Safety Measures for Foreign Air Vehicles and Air carriers, we have on the one hand to implement the implementation of an EU Directive into national law and on the other hand to extend the scope of the existing Federal Act on Safety Measures. In particular, the implementation of ramp inspections has been extended to aircraft and air carriers subject to the supervision of another Member State. The conduct of ramp inspections outside airports and non-commercial aircraft shall also be carried out. In particular, the field inspection controls poor maintenance, obvious damage, and, interestingly, exceptional flight maneuvers when those that cause serious safety concerns are observed. The opinion of the Austro Control also welcomes this law and has no concerns about its implementation. The importance of aviation and hence the safety need in aviation is increasing. Not only the holiday time is travel time; the numbers speak for it. Since 1990, the number of passengers in Austria has tripled. We had around 317 500 flight movements at the six Austrian airports in 2009. Airport Alone We had 18 million passengers in 2009. The Federal Act takes an important step towards further raising aviation safety. That is why we very much welcome the approval of all the political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24224	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24246	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Security is an important and high asset for people and is being treated here again and again in the debates among the various aspects. Today we are dealing with aviation safety, and it is very welcome that all the political groups here will stand together and agree to this law. We are therefore in line with the European Commission's wish to extend the current safety measures to aircraft and air carriers subject to the supervision of another Member State of the European Community. In my opinion, this law also requires that BMVIT, in the interests of aviation safety, can also lead to the conduct of ramp inspections on foreign aircraft landed outside airports. The same applies to non-commercially operated foreign aircraft with a maximum permissible mass of departure below 5 700 kilograms. I mean, it's important that small and small aircraft are also affected. The Annexes lay down, inter alia, more detailed requirements on the qualifications requirements of inspectors and the classification of identified deficiencies and the following emergency measures. We in Austria are very well served, we have internationally recognized inspectors – in other countries there is still much need to catch up in this regard. There are also alleged inspectors who are only firemen or members of the ground staff. And in these cases, I think, security is not given that way. That is why this uniform law is only to be welcomed, and I think that we will all, together, adopt this law unanimously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24282	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24303	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, this federal law, which is under discussion, is to be welcomed, as it contributes to the safety of air transport. Many previous speakers have already pointed out: Tens of thousands of passengers rely daily on safety standards and controls being carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of this Directive brings about a standardisation of inspections to ensure a level playing field for all aircraft in all EU Member States. But there is still much to be done in the European sky, as the past few weeks have shown. A doubling of air traffic is expected in the European airspace in the next few years. That is why the Single European Sky directive provides for harmonisation of the European sky – a subject that has been on the agenda for a long time, but little happens. Mrs Bures, you have already mentioned this: The objective must be to harmonise the European airspace and a summary of functional airspace blocks. Air safety needs to be made more efficient and cheaper in Europe. Today, for example, a large number of different air navigation systems still prevent safe and cost-effective flight handling. The comparison with the USA, where much more flights are handled than in Europe, shows that there are around 70 percent fewer delays there. This means that the benefits are obvious: timely flights and shorter travel times, so that less kerosene consumption and cost savings are achieved, and the environment is offset by less CO2 emissions and noise. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to ask you to take appropriate care of this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24349	Mrs Mag, as the last one, has been mentioned. Hakl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24370	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The excellent experts of your ministry, I believe, have made a good contribution in the implementation of this directive in order to further increase safety in international air transport. I am very happy about this because, in recent times, an unpleasant impression and impression has emerged, which cannot be swept away by this good work, namely, in the safety regulations for rescue flights with helicopters, where, as in other areas of the ministry, one cannot sometimes defend the impression that decisions are not completely separated from the various individual interests of individual companies and organizations, something which is, of course, incredibly harmful in a democracy and can never really arise. Especially in recent times – you have thankfully pointed out this in your speech – we have had to take losses in air traffic due to the ash cloud, which has led to massive economic consequences. Mrs Bundesminister, the issues of air transport safety now include the security of transport of persons across Europe. And I believe that with this and also with a shift of passenger transport to the earth, on more ecological modes of transport, such as the rail, we have to deal intensively. In this context, I remember that on the route across the Brenner not only travels more freight traffic than all the Alpine passes of Switzerland combined, but also builds incredible traffic congestion every summer. And I am firmly convinced that Brenner is urgently a powerful rail for goods and people is absolutely necessary. There was also consensus in this house. A State Treaty, which we all signed, states the absolute indispensability of this project, which the Commissioner for Transport, in his introductory statement in Saragossa, once again referred to as the EU's priority 1 transport infrastructure project. The extension of this route to passenger transport and in particular to freight transport on our common agenda is therefore urgent. Mrs Moser, sometimes it is a bit strange if the Greens, as the only party, do not agree with sensible inland navigation measures, and only by them incredibly important infrastructure projects, which at all provide the prerequisite for transport from aircraft to rail, from road to rail, to always face rejection and skepticism. I think that's counterproductive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24415	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 746 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:49:33]] Vote on agenda items 7 and 8
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24465	We now come to the vote on agenda items 7 and 8, which I make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft gambling law Novelle 2008 in 658 of the supplements. Mr Pilz has asked for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on the following parts of the draft law as amended by the Government template: Article 1(1), 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28 and 31 and Articles 3, 4 and 5. Whoever gives his consent to these parts of the draft law in the version of the government template, I ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we reach the vote on Agenda item 8 on the draft gambling law Novelle 2010 in 784 of the Supplements. Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled a supplementary or amendment and a request for a separate vote. I will vote in accordance with the classification of the draft law on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(1) of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues, who are referring to an amendment to Article 1(2). I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I seek for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the additional amendment tabled by Dr Pilz, colleagues, concerning the insertion of a new point 1a in Article 1(5), paragraph 5. 4 lit. a. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, Members of Parliament, who will have the following amendments in Article 1(5): paragraph 1; paragraph 2(7); Paragraph 4 lit. (a) point 1; Paragraph 4 lit. (a) point 7; Paragraph 4 lit. (b) points 2 and 4; Paragraph 5 lit. (a) points 1 to 3 and 7; and Paragraph 5 lit. (b) points 1 to 3 and 7. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, which concerns the deletion of Rule 1(9). I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Pilz, colleagues on Rule 1(10) of the Rules of Procedure. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 (10) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Dr Pilz, colleagues on Article 1(11) and (12) of the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here to give their approval with a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 (13) of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I call on those Members of the House who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The vote will now be taken on the amendment tabled by Dr Pilz, colleagues, on Rule 1, points 14 and 15. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues, on Rule 1, paragraph 16. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 (16) as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 17, 18 and 19 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, which refers to the insertion of a new point 19b. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1(20) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues, on Rule 1, points 21 and 22. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1(23) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues on Rule 1(24). If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2(1) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues on Article 2(2) and (6), and the deletion of points 4 and 5. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who stand up for it to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stumbling, Krainer, Dr. Pilz, Weinzinger, Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on improved player protection. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 103.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues and colleagues on the financing of therapy offers for players with pathological or problematic game behaviour. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[22:02:18]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 1142/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Tamandl, colleagues on “Natural cosmetics and biocosmetics – protection against fraud at EU level” (747 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24800	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24829	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you buy organic cosmetics or natural cosmetics in Europe, you sometimes have to expect pure chemical bombs to be bought. – This has been demonstrated by tests carried out by several European consumer organisations. In Austria, in contrast to the countries of the European Union, there are already clear rules. We have a Codex Directive on Natural Cosmetics; a Codex Directive on Biocosmetics is currently being worked on. The main problem, however, is that there are no standards at European level, no appropriate regulations and, of course, also the Austrian consumers who buy abroad, but also the Austrian companies that produce and sell their goods in accordance with the code. Therefore, in a joint request, we have asked the Federal Minister for Health to continue to work on this Codex Directive on Biocosmetics and to ensure in the new Code that the corresponding state quality marks “natural cosmetics” and “biocosmetics” are made possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At European level, it is necessary to introduce these standards, which we have in Austria, and to insist that appropriate directives on natural cosmetics and biocosmetics be established in Europe as well. Austria has a pioneering role to play in this decision. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I would like to take this opportunity to refer briefly to our decisions here in plenary on food labelling, which have been voted on in the European Parliament today. I also take this opportunity to thank Federal Minister Stöger for having also implemented what we have represented in Parliament, namely for a designation of origin for food, for unprocessed food and for processed food. Today's decision in the European Parliament is in line with the requirements of the Austrian National Council. I would also like to point out that it is not only a matter of mandatory designation of origin for meat and poultry and dairy products, but also a designation of origin if consumers are deceived about origin, for example, when a ham is used as Black Forest ham is offered, although the meat comes not from the Black Forest, but from Italy. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With this proposal, we are in favour of fraud protection in natural cosmetics and biocosmetics, as we have done in food matters. I can invite you to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24888	Madam President, I should like to speak now on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24909	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If a citizen who is not familiar with the matter reads this request, he may say: No, if it is clear where “bio” stands, it will probably also be “bio”! This is the expectation, with which many consumers make their purchases. They trust that the content will keep what the packaging promises and what it says. This is expected by the consumer in food, where there are already safe, recognised and well-known seal of quality in the meantime. People are right to choose when it comes to food – and finally it also has an impact on their health. Creams are similar to food, food for the skin. The skin is our largest organ, it is the most important barrier between the environment and our internal organs in relation to infections. So it has a very important protection function. The care of the skin is particularly important for women. Therefore, they are also selective as to the substances they feel in their skin. And now the word “bio” comes into play, for many people something like a magic word. The fact that “bio” is on it is somehow a guarantee that the world is in order, it means nature, undistorted and pure, it also means a good and gentle dealings with nature, and that means that one does something particularly good to oneself and his body. Therefore, people are quite willing to spend a little more money for “bio”. The positive experience that many people have with organic food then also transfers them to other organic products, and this can lead to quite unloving and negative circumstances such as in a case from my circle of acquaintances. A middle-aged woman with very sensitive skin wanted to do something particularly good and has therefore resorted to biocosmetics. Everything indicated this: the name of the product, the design of the packaging, i.e. color, flower, label et cetera, everything on it. The ingredients have admittedly not read them. She has relied that the cream contains what the packaging promises. Unfortunately, she was allergic to one of the ingredients, which then led to an irritable and ugly, but thank God has resulted in a treatable rash. What did she learn from it? – She has learned that she cannot trust. She has learned that she cannot rely on information, and she has learned that a product was not safe for her. Therefore, in addition to the content of this request, we are also very clearly concerned with basic values such as trust, reliability and security. Consumers rightly expect policy that there are rules on which they can rely, which give them security and justify their trust. And that should also apply to the field of biocosmetics with this request. Of course, this does not affect consumers' commitment to inform themselves. In this context, however, we have to solve the square of the circle. More and more information should be available on a packaging in a legible size, and if we are not to use more and more packaging material, we will have to think of other models. Good seal of quality, which is safe seal of quality, is certainly a good opportunity, but – and I'm back at the values – there must also be the corresponding trust of consumers. This proposal, which is likely to be approved by all, is an important component of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24963	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24987	Madam President. Federal Minister! We decide today to make a very important request if one assumes that many products have natural or organic labels on them. This is an absolute promoter. Everything that is “bio” is purchased. This is, of course, not only for the seam, but also especially for cosmetics. If you may shine somewhere like a bacon black, if you are 80, but want to look like 20, then you won't have much else left – at least the advertising – than to buy the best items, and they are naturally organic, natural and otherwise everything else possible. Mrs Hagenhofer may have noticed: After washing my hands with a wonderful cream, I bought myself an EU fan in Frankfurt at the airport. She is of course also natural and organic and everything possible, and she was sweaty. – The result: I've had a red rash up to the elbow. This is something I should have known as a consumer speaker: Where the industry is concerned, it is not guaranteed what is on it. I should have known. That's the motivator for me to say: Yes, this request is as necessary as never before! He might be a little late, but we're 100 percent behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25017	Mr Pirklhuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25038	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, we have already discussed this request intensively in committee, and of course we are taking part. It's a good initiative. However, I would like to make it clear on this occasion – because some have spoken about the fact that there are only scam products on the market at the moment – that: There are, of course, biocosmetics which are certified by control bodies, but which are not, so to speak, binding legal standards. And this is the gap that will be closed with this proposal in so far as the Austrian food code, which actually applies to food, will, interestingly, also regulate cosmetics in the future. The specialist body, which we have also discussed in the Committee, which is now responsible for food, will also regulate the field of biocosmetics. But let us take a look at the request, Mr Maier, who has two points of impact in the matter; one with regard to the Code of Good Quality, which you have already explained, and also a direction of impact on the EU level. In this respect, you also have our full support. I am very curious about what the Minister will tell us over the next few months about what this initiative will look like at European level, which echo he gets from the other ministers of expertise when it comes to establishing European rules on bio- and natural cosmetics. This is necessary because this is a growing market, and it must not and should not be a deception of consumers. But one thing is also said, Mr Maier: A quality mark law and a bioimplementation law are still in the pipeline. What we are addressing positively in this proposal is not yet in place. We don't have a law of quality. We want this to be settled there. So, Minister, this is a housework. We are still waiting for them to be completed. Obviously – I hope you may also take a position on this – there are news in this area. There are discussions between ÖVP and SPÖ, as I know. Is there something new? Have you agreed yet? Can we soon expect the presentation of a law of quality marks here in the house? The same applies to the Bioimplementation Act. We are still waiting for the relevant template. One more thing about European consumer information: The European Parliament has today decided to reject a number of others; for example, it rejects the traffic light marking, which we very much regret. That would have been a good, simple system to get a clear message about the product label without reading much. For example, when it comes to the implementation of the directive, we welcome the mandatory labelling of sticky meat. So the so-called cuddly ham, which will be produced from waste with the transglutaminases, will be mandatory in the future. – A success of the Green Consumer Protection Policy at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25084	Mr President, Mr Spadiut is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25105	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Biofood labelling is clearly regulated and there are no legal standards for the labelling of biocosmetics. It can be referred to as ‘bio’ by any manufacturer as ‘bio’. Consumer protectionists criticize that there are often natural products that are at best pseudobio products where a small amount of natural substances are confronted by a large amount of chemical substances. In order to exclude these deceptions, it is necessary to establish legal criteria for the use of the terms “natural cosmetics” and “biocosmetics”. That is why we shall vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25132	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25154	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is to be welcomed that more and more Austrians not only want to feed healthyly, but also increasingly to pursue a natural and sustainable lifestyle in other areas. A highly developing area is the area of natural cosmetics and biocosmetics. Many people prefer these products, they want to supply themselves with natural ingredients, and these people have a right that they also receive biologically flawless products in the cosmetics area. The least natural and biocosmetic products are really organic products; Mr Maier has already done this. They often consist entirely or at least predominantly of chemical, artificial substances. There are no labels. In the field of biocosmetics is a variety of impenetrable and misleading Terms, trademarks and markings exist. The result of this consumer deception is, especially in women, that skin reactions often occur. There are a total of more than 4,000 known substances that produce skin reactions. These are also often known as healthy substances. Therefore, a code chapter on biocosmetics is to be welcomed with uniform principles and rules. Of course, we also welcome the advances at EU level, Minister, that legal criteria for natural cosmetics and biocosmetics are required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25190	Mrs Mag. Aubauer is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25211	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Please accompany me from the cosmetics department in the supermarket to the area of food! If you buy meat in Austria, on which the AMA organic seal is stamped – also good, there is also the AMA organic seal – then you can be 100% sure: [[Abg. Weinzinger: There you go to Metzger and not to the supermarket!]] This meat comes from organic production, the quality is often controlled! There are improvements in food at EU level – Mr Maier and Mr Pirklhuber have already addressed some of today’s decisions – and there are since 1. July a new organic logo; here for those who do not yet know it. [[the speaker shows this]] ==References== July 2010 must be marked with this new European organic logo for all organic products produced within the EU. However, a transitional period shall apply until July 2012. Our approach: What is good for food, this should also be possible in cosmetics. That is, we need a reliable quality mark for natural and biocosmetics. That is why, Minister Stöger, we ask you to demand clear standards and rules for cosmetics at EU level, because we consumers – we are all – do not want to be cheated, but we want honest information! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25252	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25273	Madam President. Minister! This more than necessary application concerning so-called natural cosmetics products once again shows clearly what dirty methods consumers are guided by the manufacturers, because many companies, we have already heard, apply for their products as “bio products” with “natural ingredients” – probably knowing that these products do not contain any natural substances at all, because they are partly or even completely made of artificial or chemical substances. This is a real piggy for me – to say it in Steirisch – as consumers are deliberately led astray, deceived and deceived. [[Abg. May. Gässner: That's what we say in Upper Austria: pigry!]] It is therefore up to us to put an end to this decision, which we are going to take today, by adopting appropriate legal provisions, because it is possible that such practices are only possible because the term “bio” is not protected in the case of cosmetic products contrary to the bio-labelling of foodstuffs. I believe that this is the right way we are taking today that we are no longer seeing it, because there are also sufficient complaints by consumers about the extent of allergic reactions to the use of these articles in cosmetic products that consist mainly or predominantly of artificial ingredients. In order to stop the future, it is therefore urgently necessary to draw up legislation, which will clarify what bio-cosmetics should understand at all, because, as my previous speakers have said, where “bio” is concerned, “bio” should also be inside. I believe that this is an important step in the right direction. Moreover, those companies producing bio-cosmetics will be subject to strict controls in the future to ensure that all past errors of consumers once and for all belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25327	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall therefore vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 747 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 104.) [[22:23:04]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 1143/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Gabriele Tamandl, colleagues on the revision and strengthening of the EU Toy Directive (748, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25379	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25407	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Each of us has certainly heard of the fact that children's toys contain substances that cause disease. In 2011, an EU Toys Directive is to enter into force, and this directive is not sufficient for these substances to cease to be present in toys. It is to the consumer protectionist of the House, Jacky Maier, and to the honourable Member Tamandl that we are actually taking this resolution here for the second time today to strengthen our Federal Minister when it comes to considering this directive again at EU level. It is simply not to understand that there are children's toys that endanger the health of our children. These are not small things, these are cancer-stimulating substances, these are heavy metals, there is nickel inside and everything else possible. I believe, Minister of State, that it is really necessary for us to achieve a new directive here in Europe. We owe it to our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25442	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25463	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, it's a sad fact that news about dangerous children's toys is getting more and more common. Against the background of the increasing number of cancers in children, it is also urgent to minimise these loads with harmful substances as much as possible. Children can react much more sensitively to chemicals than adults, and smaller children, in particular, have toys not only in their hands every day, but also in their mouths, which is true for hours, Mr Deputies. Since it may already be possible that certain chemicals are released from the toy and enter the children's bodies. There is also an EU Rapid Warning System: RAPEX. Member States will be informed that certain products in the European Union are being challenged due to impairments in the health of people who want to use these products. Toys are also growing. These are mostly cheap toys that come from China and do not meet the safety criteria that we and the European Union lay down. For most toy tests, CMR substances are also included in the chemical parameters. CMR means that the substance is carcinogenic, hereditary or reproductive. This new EU toy directive, already mentioned, also has certain positive aspects. It will be possible to strengthen control, not only manufacturers, but also importers and dealers will have to ensure product safety and product conformity for toys in the future. But in the area of thresholds regarding processed chemicals, it goes far too far to us. Here, too, Austria's side and Germany's side disputed that this Directive requires maximum levels for children and, of course, for all those dealing with these toys to be affected by health problems. As part of the work on this new Toy Directive, Austria has also been very critical of these rules and has not agreed to this new EU Directive in agreement with Germany, knowing that it would be technically possible to produce toys in such a way as to keep these chemicals as low as possible and not to achieve the maximum levels laid down in the Directive. Therefore, it is also appropriate to maintain as much as possible these harmful substances. Mr Federal Minister, we want to strengthen you with this motion for a resolution in your company, so that you can also influence decisions at EU level in the future in order to tighten this EU toy directive.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25512	Mr Doppler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25533	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The protection of children must be a very important concern for all of us. Therefore, we advocate more stringent toy guidelines and strongly reject toys in which carcinogenic CMR substances are imported from China. We also look at the new limit values for heavy metals in children's toys. In the future, even more lead can be released from toys than under the previous regulation. If you know that fragrances, nickels, and much more allergies can be created, thus putting the health of children at risk, we will have to act massively against such machinations in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25560	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25582	Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to this subject, there is clarity, but no question: The EU Toy Directive does not go far enough. However, I would like to mention one aspect that we would also consider particularly important, namely the control by third parties, by independent bodies in the country of production. If you can't look at the manufacturer's way of producing it, you may not even know where the problem is, or only too late if a damage occurs somewhere. That would also be an area that we should actually discuss. As a first step, I think it is good and right that we have agreed on these limit values, as they have been established, especially as regards carcinogenic substances – and that we have here adopted a clear resolution calling on you, Mr Federal Minister, to ensure and, at European level, to step up this toy directive so that no carcinogenic substances can be found in these products, even in traces, that there is a zero tolerance in relation to such values. That's what we're working for. We will agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25612	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25633	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the revision and intensification of the EU Toy Directive with this proposed proposal, it is true that, in principle, we have already adopted it unanimously in the last legislative period, both in the Consumer Protection Committee and here in plenary. Unfortunately, however, God has not done anything at all at European level, and that is why this step is now necessary. It should be borne in mind that, especially for very small children, there is a great danger when 80 percent of toys come from China and are in circulation in Europe, with non-food colours, or also with Softeners, which pose the highest risk for the children, so that one has to intervene in this regard. This request therefore has its rights, and in particular it is important, Mr Federal Minister for Health, that you also act in this regard at European level, so that this will be handled in the future in the interests of consumers, especially in the interests of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25673	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25694	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We buy toys on many occasions to our children and grandchildren, but actually don't know what's inside this toy or what's released at these games. It is true that the number of notifications in the EU Rapid Warning System RAPEX – which concerns dangerous consumer goods – is constantly increasing, and the system is also working, and it is always working better, since the EU Member States are reporting on this, but also the EU candidate countries. Nevertheless, we must make further improvements to protect our children, which should be reintegrated in this directive. A quarter of the reports in the RAPEX system concern toys. In particular, CMR substances suspected of release of carcinogens, change human heritage or endanger reproduction have been reported. The EU Directive allows for a number of exceptions, and limit values are often not scientifically possible. From CMR-stuffs, the content of the product is not decisive, but its release is relevant. For the control of CMRs, existing requirements for food contact materials whose release value is less than 0,01 milligrams in a test could be considered as an indication, i.e. not detectable. Examinations should be carried out by independent third parties, as I agree with you. Health is our highest good, and children are the most valuable we have. Mr. Federal Minister, we are sure that you will support a strengthening of the EU Toys Directive in its proposed form to protect our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25731	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25753	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Dolinschek, you are perfectly right: We have already dealt with this issue during the previous legislative period, but unfortunately we have not continued at European level. It is therefore justified that a motion for a resolution on this subject should now be reintroduced. Let us take a brief look at what has happened in the years since 2004: At that time, we were dealing with quality defects, 486 of the number reported per year, and today we have 1 993 defects, 472 of which are toys – and that is before textiles or other import goods, mostly from China. In other words, we need a rule in the future: Be it now the thresholds to be limited in relation to heavy metals, whether it be chemical ingredients, fragrances or a CMR ban. All of this must be taken into account in a regulation and included and must find legal precipitation. I hope that we can advise and bring to a reasonable conclusion at the next consumer committee meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25789	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25810	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. May. Gässner:... Grandfather!]] – I am not yet a grandfather, Mr Gaßner, but perhaps it will still be. As regards this EU Directive: The “Eco test” magazine has found out that in a test of 13 game or leisure equipment plasticizers have been found, namely dangerous and carcinogenic hydrocarbons. These ingredients are particularly dangerous to children – and especially now that the bathing season has begun, it must also be pointed out that, for example, there can be risks in inflating an air mattress, but also in increasing health risks. This starts with skin rashes and is ultimately a huge threat to the whole body. We have therefore requested that in Austria these products should also be subject to an immediate inspection and checks at wholesale stores where these products are offered. I can only hope that the Minister of Health here has complied with our request, our request. And it really cannot be that, as the Chamber of Commerce has told us, it will now pass on these complaints in peace to the Federal Centre of the Chamber of Commerce – and then you will see. I believe that the summer time must be used to clarify this question in Austria. We just have a cheese scandal behind us, who has cost numerous deaths, therefore: Please don't wait so long until something happens in this area that we don't want all of us to! Let us try to clarify these open questions! Let us try to tell them clearly whether the limit values that apply to us – whether they are toys or leisure articles – are actually applicable to these products so that we can let our children go for a swim, for example! That is why I would ask, because in autumn, when the bathing season is over, it might be too late for one child or another, and it could have already done a great deal of damage – and that only because we politicians did not react in time in this matter. I would like to ask you, Minister of State: Let's do this together! I think it is a very, very serious matter if, of 13 samples, twelve articles are classified as unsuitable, yes dangerous to health. That's why you have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25845	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25868	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! All my eight previous speakers have expressed a positive view of the revision and strengthening of the EU Toys Directive. This attitude is also important and necessary, because there must be no compromises as to the health and safety of our children. The current chemical safety regulation for toys, as contained in the new EU Toy Directive, is insufficient. Like all products, toys also contain a variety of chemical substances. Depending on how firmly bound they are in the products and how much these products are claimed, smaller or larger quantities of this substance can dissolve and then be taken up by children during play. Toys with cancer-inducing plasticizers, with toxic heavy metals and allergy-inducing substances are repeatedly found. The focus is on so-called CMR dusts. There is a mixture of various substances that are considered to be carcinogenic. Figures from Germany show that the limit values for car tyres are about ten thousand times lower than those for toys. There is a need for action here. It is important that we support our Federal Minister and the negotiators with today's decision-making process in order to renegotiate or amend the directive at EU level. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Toy is not a product like any other, it is intended for the most vulnerable consumer groups. Therefore, there must be no compromises in the toy either. Toys in the trade must be safe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25918	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25939	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I can thank you for bringing in this resolution. I used the discussion in the Committee to discuss this issue at the last Council of Ministers at European level, which dealt with health and consumer protection issues. At the request of the Federal Republic of Germany, this issue was also on the agenda. I made a speech and said that it is particularly important for us to strengthen the topic of toys, set limits on carcinogens, improve the Toys Directive. In the discussion, the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria and Italy have expressed themselves in this direction. I will do everything I can to confront the new Commissioner with this situation now and to achieve a further change. Thank you for your commitment! It is urgently necessary to launch initiatives in this area. But we also need a majority in the European Union. – Thank you for this resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25976	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. No final word will be desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 748 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 105.) The agenda is exhausted. [[22:42:48]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-06-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26022	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 1163/A(E) to 1179/A(E). Questions 5740/J to 5779/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 17. June 2010, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
