ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2654	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I ask the MP not to advocate the minister during the session. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, on the basis of Article 287, today you have the right to request a notice and an explanation based on Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I ask you - whether any of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2655	Dear fellow MPs, what I'm about to say, the question that I'm about to ask shows all the consequences of the criminal privatisation we've had in the last 10-15 years. Namely, it is Somboro and a few dozen oil workers "Sun" who received a transfer to Vital Vrbas, although the city is more than 50km away from Somboro, with a warning from the employer of Invej that if they do not accept the contract annex by October 1st, they are fired. These people have come into a situation to run out of work, no severance or compensation from the National Employment Service, if they refuse to offer to continue their work at the Vital in Vrbas. At the same time, the employer shut down the production of margarine, mayonnaise and ketchup, and he declared the workers of this department a technological surplus. These workers have the right to severance and compensation from the work bureau, but the employer does not give it, but points them to work with another employer, Vitala, in Vrbas, who is 52 kilometers away from Somboro, which is of course not by law. They're offered a job, but not a secure transport. In fact, half the transport costs from Vrbasa are about 6,000 dinars, they would pay themselves from the minimum wagers, i.e. Of 21,000 dinars, which means that people would have about 15,000 dinars left. Working hours start at 6:00 p.m. and it's just science fiction so people around Somboro and the villages can get to work. This is just one of the examples of domestic privatisation, but it shows all the absurd privatisations that we've had to look at in the years behind us. If we all know how well protected people are by various local self-governments and public enterprises who are literally because party personnel can't even fall off their heads, then it's just amazing that in the private sector and those companies that have been more than successful, especially in one area like Sombor, in the agrarian area, they shut down the facility and treat workers who have been employed in one of these companies for many years. I find it also devastating that local self-government has absolutely no hearing of these people's problems. I think, unfortunately, this situation, of course, is not unique when it comes to our country, but it shows how many major problems we have to face in the future. My question was asked to the prime minister, Mr Dacic, who is full of mouths fighting for socio-economic problems and fighting for the most vulnerable, and I hope that by October 1st he will be able to find a solution and help not only these people, but all those who are in similar problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2656	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Milekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2657	Respect, Mr. President. I'd like to repeat one question. You weren't here yesterday. A colleague, Siniša Kovacevic, has asked a question that I have been asking, although around here for several weeks. It's October in a few days, all the committees have been set up, only the Committee on Culture is not. Please, if you can answer us why not and when it will be established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2658	I can answer that right now. The Committee on Culture will be established, I hope, in agreements maybe this week and perhaps next. I can't tell you exactly. We had an agreement within all parliamentary groups, on the composition of the committee, on who will be chairman of the Committee. Since the parliamentary group, which we have agreed to manage the Committee, is currently not a member of that committee, another member of the committee from another parliamentary group will take over the presidency until the Committee member is replaced, so I expect it within the next seven days. It's just that there's no other background behind it. I expect as soon as possible. I also raised that question today, and thank you for your suggestion. Mr. Neven Florist, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2659	Dear Mr. Minister, allow me to take advantage of your opportunity here today in front of the National Assembly to ask you a question about the situation at the Faculty of Philosophy in Kosovo Mitrovica. Some of our fellow professors have informed me that this higher education facility has not worked for a long time, that there is a problem in the collective, that there is a problem in the management of this higher education facility in the dean and to be honest, they have informed me and that you have reacted quite correctly so far, that you are aware of the problems that exist there. My question is – since the ministry is showing good faith to solve this problem, can the problem be solved by the start of the school year, so that this problem is not transferred to the next school year? Allow me, at the very end, a brief conclusion. If the state can afford itself the luxury of not operating a higher education facility in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Nis, because they are indisputable territories for Serbia, I believe that the state cannot afford the luxury of not operating a higher education facility in Kosovo Mitrovica, precisely in a territory that is institutionally trying to separate itself from Serbia. Finally, to conclude, my question is – can the problems at the Faculty of Philosophy in Mitrovica be resolved before the start of the school year, so to speak, in that part of the country function both in the context of education policy and in the context of the general state policy towards KIM? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2660	Minister, you normally respond by written means within 15 days. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. I apologize, since the Rules of Procedure define and define that questions can only be asked by one representative of a parliamentary group, I made a mistake and just so you know that it was not intended. I didn't notice these were MPs from the same parliamentary group. Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2661	Mr. President, fellow MPs and all the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission. I have one question, or I'm looking for a notice that I, I think, in this high house, asked more than a year ago, the Ministry of Culture and Information. My question was – is it possible that some percentage of the TV subscription that Serbian citizens pay, remains for local TV stations and media? I got the answer that a commission was made. It turns out now that Churchill, when you don't want to do something, you just make a commission. I received an answer from the then Ministry of Culture and then the Minister, very kindly, that a commission was made that makes a proposal in that direction. Meanwhile, to put it this way, in a large way, unfortunately bad, the topic has opened up – paying for a TV subscription. The percentages, managed by the Public Service, collection of television subscriptions, say it is getting smaller from month to month. I don't want this time, there to be an opportunity, I'm talking about what's going on, I'm just asking the question of citizens' equality. Are the citizens I belong to right, who regularly pay for a TV subscription or does it look like the vast majority of citizens will no longer pay for the TV subscription? Does the question of how to charge television subscription have anything to do with constitutional rights, human rights of citizens? Let me explain a little bit what this is about. So, and the television program of any station, including the Public Service, is some kind of goods. So it's the only goods that the citizens, whether they wanted or not, when it comes to our public service, have to pay. I'm not familiar and I haven't heard of any other kind of goods that a citizen has to consume that kind of goods, and this is about the Public Service. Therefore, I do not dispute the existence of public service as such and the programme he should present to the citizens. I voted alone in 2002 for the payment of a TV subscription, but now, gentlemen, we've come to a situation where in one city, in the city where I come from, the court rejects the non-payment of TV subscription and as is the case with other utility services, which citizens use, turn out to be guilty, not to say fools, those who pay a television subscription. Therefore, I want a notice and an answer, as these days in the media were also about how it was financed by RTV Serbia, on purpose I will not tell Belgrade, I think they should be banned from using Belgrade's television name, if that would be Belgrade's bi-television, then it should be paid by the Belgrade citizens. I don't know why they'd pay me a subscription to Belgrade TV. So I want comprehensive information from the Minister of Culture and Information - what the Government and the Resort Ministry are thinking in that direction, especially after knowing that the previous salary, and there is over three thousand people, I mean the vast majority of honest and honest, has barely received personal income. So, what is the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Government regarding the future and functioning of the Public Service? About the fact that I expected, as a working child, that these four unions, which exist on RTS, would ask the leadership, or director who now says the people, got stuck in a mouse hole and gone nowhere, why didn't they first ask him what was up with the salaries and how would RTS be financed? I think there will be opportunities in the coming months, at least as far as New Serbia's MPs are concerned, to ask the leadership how these funds were raised from a subscription that the federal citizens paid neatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2662	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2663	I don't want to talk about TV Belgrade, which doesn't exist for 22 years, but I want to talk about Kosovo, which is under the Constitution in Serbia. These days we see that the new government and the new president around Kosovo are sending really contradictory messages. We can say that there is a way of continuing the interpretation of Kosovo's policy as it was during the previous government. Nothing's changed. Remember, let's go to the barricades, let's go from the barricades. The infatuation of the people continues, our people in Kosovo. One shouts that he wants to talk to the president of Kosovo, the other shouts that he would share Kosovo, the third shouts that good neighbourly relations should be established, the fourth, here is the newly elected president of the Kosovo Committee, says international agreements must be respected. I don't think what Borko signed, except that it was done abroad, could be an international agreement, because we would have to ratify it. So if you're Drecuna, if you're going to calm the Serbs who on weekends on their TV shows, on local TV stations in northern Kosovo, pump and go down, and these shows are worthy of X-Files and those series with Scully and Mulder. He thinks it's Mulder, so at least tell him not to exaggerate, so he can say it's international contracts. It is clear that after meeting with Mrs Ashton, President Nikolic will probably be clear when we will be able to discuss the new platform. I remind you that in the last resolution, which was adopted here last July, it says that we demand, at that time, that the situation at the crossings be restored to the situation before July 25th. You're aware of how pointless that was at the time, but you didn't listen to us, and how pointless it is now. As we await a consensus on this new Kosovo resolution, I would ask the government and the authorities not to send such contradictory messages, not to be in vain, and such a deluded people down in Kosovo. My question is, it has nothing to do with politics, in line with technical negotiations. I asked Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior before rest, which is why the government regulation that prescribes the crossing of the line is not respected. Remember that regulation says that this line is only crossed at crossing points, not where it comes to mind. What we were saying about crime, corruption, smuggling, etc. slowly going public, and you who have criticised us and accused us Serbs from Kosovo of declaring criminals now see that there is crime and how there is. Certainly not all criminals, as no one says, are, say, criminals, which we often hear. In a response sent by Prime Minister Dacic to the question – why the regulation is not respected, because it is clear that crossings are not used for crossing, but alternative roads are used. Remember when KFOR started blocking the alternative roads, there was someone raising barricades on normal roads. On second thought, KFOR may have done more to comply with the Serbian government's regulation to cross the line at crossing points rather than beyond crossing points. Since Mr. Dacic, in principle, convinced me what the regulation contains, which was not my question, because we know what the regulation contains, I will encourage myself to ask technical questions. In response, Mr. Dacic said that police officers control the crossing of passengers and vehicles at administrative crossings, that's fine, and provide an administrative line. That means where they're not crossing. My additional question is - how many people have been punished since the regulation was adopted for crossing the line outside the crossing point? It says - the crossing of the administrative line of the AP KiM is only allowed in the prescribed places, and these are the transitions, except in special cases, with the approval of the competent authority and in the case of force majeure, in accordance with the provisions of Article four, five of that Regulation. The second question is, how many times have the authorities given permission to cross the line outside the crossing? So the first question -- how punished is it because they went outside the crossings and two -- how many times they let it go beyond the crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2664	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2665	Just 10 seconds so we don't waste the funds without reason, because Mr Markicevic has done it perfectly and precisely when he asked the question and how he got the answer. Since we have found that the board has not yet been formed, it is quite possible that there is no need to send the question again in order to spend the money. I think the report contains, which is the Ministry's obligation, to the Committee, when it is formed, detailed data, because you asked at this time a year ago. In this response, there is a response that the strategy is adopted, i.e. to be adopted on 28 September 2011, the order of the commissions working on which laws are being passed, which is referred to other ministries. Compared to that, you will be safe in the situation that citizens who are interested are given the correct answer without going to empty mail several times, if you agree. Thank you all for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2666	Of course, you understand that you had to ask some questions during this period. (Predrag Markovic, from the place: I have set up, if they agree, you as a leadership, and Mr Markicevic has given his head a sign, which I respect. We'll take that as a question. Thank you. The word is Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2667	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the news has been received very undetected and calmly in public that Mr. Predrag Culibrk has been appointed as acting director of the state company's office. Of course, the public could also be pleased with Deputy Prime Minister Vukic's statement that for the first time in the history of Telecom, a person is coming to the head of the state company, a man who is impartial after five years of ruling the DS, and we know what kind of DS rule in that company. The problem, however, is that ten days before the election, Mr. Predrag Culibrk entered the DS. My question for Prime Minister Dacic as prime minister and, of course, for him as interior minister is – is the government aware that the head of the state-run company, which operates most profitablely, has brought in a man who is a member of the DS? What does that mean as a coincidence? It is very interesting that this formal link between Mr. Culibrk and the DS is a minor problem for me somewhere, because the chief lobbyist for his arrival in that position, at the position of the director of Telecom Serbia, because he was formerly director of the "Telecoma Republika Srpska", was former director of Mr. Branko Radajko, who was a prominent member of the DS. Of course, this leaves the question whether the choice involves stopping all those investigations that could and should be continued in the "Telecom of Serbia" itself? Is it true that these investigations will stop and the people will not know the truth about whether some senior DS officials have been pulling out of Republika Srpska Telecom and Telecom Serbia for years? Does this mean that it will be stopped and an investigation into the fact that Telecom Serbia bought a sports channel, they say completely illegally, and that today it is being broadcast illegally, because it has no RRA license? Is it true that she will be stopped and investigated for how she beat the debt to Telecom's bankrupt company "Futura" with which some alignment and beating were made by "Futuri's" kiosks branded with "Telecom's" logo? That cost 22m euros. If they'd branded from here to Vladivostok, it wouldn't have cost so much. I'm going to make a parallel here, which is simply an association that brings me to this maneuver where the current government hid behind a parade that Mr. Borko Stefanovic puts into agreements with Pristina. The Democratic Party of Serbia is certainly against these agreements, not only does it approve them, but it will also seek an epilogue, or seek to determine their validity at the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We, though we do not accept and approve these agreements, understand the political maneuver made by the government, that it washes its hands and hides behind some state continuity, that in this way it happens that, here yesterday, the state of Serbia has in some way legalized the border in the very heart of Serbia, changing those letters on integrated border management. (President: I apologize, since your time is up, do you have a specific question? My questions are also very specific. (President: You are right but up to five minutes. It's now five minutes and 15 seconds, so please stick to the Rules of Procedure. I've asked you a few specific questions that I'm asking you to answer, and I'd just like to say that the DSS and how it welcomes the fight against corruption and crime, but what's happening now with Telecom is some continuity of government and the influence of DS, which in any case smells like a cover-up of clues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2668	You have the right, of course, to ask specific questions, but I also ask all MPs to read carefully the Rules of Procedure on the form of questions, because asking questions does not mean making broad comments on other political issues that are not relevant. You, of course, can formulate it another way, but the questions are being asked in a specific way up to five minutes. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2669	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will be brief. He may seem a little bit important at first sight, but he's got a big message. In Serbia, the review of privatisations, the review of suspects, failures, etc. is current at this time. On the other hand, the clear government policy is that it has put investment in production, in economy, because it alone creates a new value, it can hire, lead to employment, etc. My question concerns the situation when it is privatized and after the privatisation of the Small Transformer Factory "Minel – Trafo Mladenovac". It was a very successful company, it exported to Russia, Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Montenegro, etc. What happened? What's this about? This company, many say that they are working there, deliberately destroyed, to open up a space for foreign companies to do the job. So, what is it, that this firm, which has been very successful, is in a position to open up a pre-fashion procedure now? It's 230 workers. We can say a little or a lot, but the message has to be to keep both production and employees, and then hire someone new. What kind of privatisation is that? What is this about, if a very successful company gets to the point of pre-determining? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2670	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2671	Thank you. I will stick to the Rules of Procedure and ask a very short question. I'm sorry he's not a culture minister here, and I'm sorry we don't see him at these sessions. I hope that this will not be a tendency for the work of the Serbian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Ministry of Culture does not propose anything or appear in the parts of the session that are scheduled to ask questions. My question is, specifically addressed to the Minister of Culture – when will the cultural development strategy of the Republic of Serbia be completed? Is there even a change in the head of the Ministry of Culture and when we can make this document very important for the Republic of Serbia that we expect at the meeting of the Republic of Serbia Assembly, that is, when we will have the opportunity to discuss the strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia and to adopt or reject such an act? In view of this, my question is also the letter of the Council for Culture, I will say exactly what it is called because I have recently seen it in numerous documents that we have received, that is true – the report on the work of the National Council for Culture which all MPs received on 19 September 2012 and when you read it carefully, and I do not doubt that the people elected to the National Council for Culture, the people most respected in the fields of culture that they represent in this council, write in a very alarming way about a negative relationship and now already the former Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Culture and the Assembly are in the past convocation towards them, that the coordination of none in the work of the Committee on Culture, which, unfortunately, we have yet to realize that it has been established either in this conference, nor in coordination with the Ministry of Culture, which was represented by former Minister Predrag Markovic, was not. I have another question for the culture minister – did he start coordinating between these three bodies, which are also required by the Culture Act to work together to adopt a national culture development strategy? Let's not forget, culture is extremely important and it's one of the identity ministries in the Serbian government, how important it is for this country and in recent events, is that it refers to cultural institutions at local levels, where the founders of the city's assembly are, as is the problem. I don't want to stand on either side or in the case of a theatre in Belgrade, but I want to point out how much culture in our country loses its significance and maybe it pulls away its consequences and reflects on all other areas that may be more important to people than culture, but there are us who think that order is completely different. I would like the Minister of Culture to give a written reply that we all here would like to meet such an important act or document, which we expect finally to appear in front of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2672	Just for the sake of informing you, since we today have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education in the details of the agenda, so today we have Minister Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education. That is why the culture minister is not invited, of course, to come today from 16:00 to 1900 hours, when other representatives of the government will arrive. Today we have a session where government representatives will be in front of parliament together with the Prime Minister and MPs today from 16:00 to 19:00, as usual, the last Thursday of the month, will be able to ask questions to all members of the government and, of course, the Minister of Culture. The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2673	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for using this privilege and for asking Mr. Science and Education, Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Mitrovica. How long has it been with the centre of regenerative medicine, or the bank of stem cells, since we know that this project, which has been approved, is of national importance to us, our country? I remind you that Serbia still doesn't have a stem cell bank, that it leaves Serbia four million euros a year because these stem cell samples are sent abroad and charge from our people for, I would say, a huge sum, somewhere up to 2,000 euros to keep and send such cells abroad? I'm not talking about costs per patient moving from 20 to 100 thousand euros for stem cell transplants? So my question is whether, when they start building this centre, because we know that there is a location in Kragujevac, we know that the funds are approved, we know that there is knowledge and willingness of people who would be involved in this project and everyone is eager to participate in this project, because this project has, once again, national importance not only for the treatment of diseases, but for training students, young researchers and, of course, preventing, brain draining from our country. So it's really one multiple, complex project that, I think, is of great importance for all of Serbia, that is, for all people involved in this project, especially for the Ministry of Science and Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2674	Thank you. Does anyone else report from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Suzana Spasojevic and Vesna Stepic. Once again, I would like to inform you that today we will have a session with representatives of the government from 1600 to 1900 hours. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives ofproposals Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have also called on the sittings of Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica and Prof. Dr. Zoran Mašić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and Prof. Dr. Slobodan Stupar, Assistant Minister of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We continue to work and move on to the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendment Law and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korać, Miljenko Dereta, Ivan Karić, Mirko Čikiriz, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić, Ružica Igić, Branislav Blažić, Marijan Rističević and Ivan Jovanovic. You have received the Report of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before we move to a search for the draft law in particular, I remind you that the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Ružica Igic, have drawn the amendments together to Article 6. In accordance with Article 157(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Svetislav Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korac and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Miljenko Deretta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2675	Good afternoon, President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, we continue a lively discussion from yesterday's, first from that general debate, and then from yesterday's committee. In fact, one formal question helped me to learn some things I didn't know and to explain to me some that I didn't see clearly. So, there is a proposal to get the university student conference to be legal person status by enrolling it in the court register. I've learned that there's a court register that registers public services, i.e. State institutions and some private educational institutions because they have to largely monitor certain obligations arising from the law. I myself and my colleagues suggested that the Student Conference be registered as an APR association with an explanation that it would ensure their greater independence from the institutions with which they should communicate. From the ministry's proposal, in fact, if it adopts the Belgrade University Student Conference, it becomes a state institution. Because by enroling the state in that register, he becomes the founder of the conference. In that sense, these students' representatives become state representatives of students in front of the ministry. Now, if we go further condescendingly, the less they represent students as one independent segment of the education process. Many of us older ones remember times when there were so - called. The advice of the students, who actually tried to conduct among the students the then state policy, which was against many freedoms for which the students had fought, and for God's sake today. As one of the reasons why legal status is required is that the conference could have access to the funds given by the European Student Union whose conference is now a member. What is not said here is that since 2000, it has been a full member, and since 1990 it has been a candidate for the member of that European Student Union of Serbia, therefore, one of the state's independent union and has had its own giro-account, on which it has been receiving funds from the European Student Union on a regular basis for almost 12 years. In this way, by opening this account, the question of the bill is, in fact, the essence of this intervention, one competition is being created between these two students' organisations, which will certainly, in my opinion, not contribute to better understanding and greater communication between students at Belgrade University. Two, here in the explanation it's said that this is how registration is done. The granting of legal personality status is equated with the status of legal person of the University Conference, which has its own account which is in the vault i.e. at the Ministry of Finance. So, in the state, in the most important sense of the word. I must say, I expect that when the European Student Union gets an account that is in the country, it will seriously consider whether or not it will pay something, because there are other mechanisms that the student unions are funding, in an independent way and are trying to encourage those student organisations that are not in such close contact with the ministry whose work they should actually be dealing with. I have to say I'm very sorry that our amendment has been rejected, but at the same time I'm very glad, because we are now able to call things a real name and say that the student conference of the university is actually a state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2676	Thank you. Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2677	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, respected members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, before I answer the question of Mr. Dereta's colleagues, since we discussed it yesterday on the Committee, I would like to inform you of two things that are not technical but are related to this session. First of all, I want you to know that a colleague of Professor Zoran Mašić and a colleague of Professor Slobodan Stupar are not with us these days because they are at a regional conference on higher education, otherwise they would both be here with us. They are in Dubrovnik, where the Regional Conference on Higher Education is held and they will present what we have done at the level of higher education in the Republic of Serbia. It'll be a good opportunity to see where the rest of the countries are, to exchange experiences and see what the conditions for further co-operation are. The second thing, counterpart Cveticanin asked a question, I will find room to answer that, and as far as my colleague Stojkovic is concerned, the answer will be given in the afternoon, as the issue is more complex. I would now return to this position expressed by my colleague Derret. Yesterday we talked a lot about it, I think the two amendments concerning the status issue of a student conference of universities in Serbia, so in Serbia, not Belgrade, my colleague Dereta, they represent not only one university but all universities in Serbia, both state and private. I must tell you that among the student population, among the members of the student parliament are representatives of the student union and the student union, and those who are not, and they are all members of the student parliaments who participated in the selection of the student parliaments conference. So they make a much better deal with each other and understand each other than we think. Why? Because everyone represents student attitudes. Possible animosity, if I may say so, or some sparks that existed among them, have been resolved years ago and there is no disagreement among them. If you don't believe it, we'll call you when they hold the next conference, so you can see on the spot what it looks like when students work together to achieve their goals. The second thing, the amendment-related one, is that this gives the possibility to the University of Serbia student conference that, apart from the fact that the Higher Education Act makes the organisation a legitimate representative of Serbian students, that they have a legal personality and that you are right to co-operate with co-workers from the ministry, that they can compete, get funds and have autonomy with them. Watch out – autonomously with them to have, because if they accepted your logic that they now become part of the state, then even colleges could not, on the same basis, compete for Tempus or some other programs, because they could also be objected to for being a state. There's a kind of autonomy inside the university, you should know that, and college, which they and how well they use. The Law governing courts, Article 25, provides for the registration of legal persons and other entities in the court register and the registration of all those established by law. All educational institutions are enrolled -- four conferences established by the Law on Higher Education are according to their position and aim identical, two conferences of universities and academia of vocational studies are already enrolled in the court register. We did not accept your amendment just because we believe this solution is more suitable and simple, for them more comprehensively and fulfils the purpose of student requirements and gives them the opportunity to be in every way part of the student organisation or organisation represented by students in Europe. I must say, their colleagues from Europe have been here for a few months. They organized their welcome, they organized their joint work, because these students' representatives came to evaluate exactly these elements you speak of – how autonomous they are of the state, whom they represent, above all, and what attitudes they represent. They will write an independent report that will be the basis for concluding whether the University of Serbia Student Conference deserves or does not deserve to be a member of the European association. To be honest, I don't have any concerns about their status, as I don't have any concerns about their demands either, because part of these requirements has been translated into this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I think this solution will be satisfied, but I appreciate both your concern and your effort and your interest to make a different solution, or this solution, possibly not the basis for some possible problems in the work. As far as we're concerned at the Ministry, you can be completely calm. As for others, you know it's a very relative thing. Students represent students, and if they represent others, it's not good for them or for students in whose name they speak. These students who are now in the student parliament, i.e. the student parliament conference at the University of Serbia, are completely autonomous and know exactly what they want and have shown it to us several times in the right way and we have managed to find common language with them over the past few years. There was their desire to help them further, and we are doing so with this bill of law. I think they'll be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2678	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2679	Just for a little while. Of course, I want full co-operation and coherent co-operation between state institutions and students, but my experience as the parents of two students, who were active and in student parliaments, teaches something else, which is that student parliaments are a very dynamic form of organization in which, as you know, a permanent struggle is being fought between representatives of political parties and those who are considered authentic representatives of students freed from the influences of political parties. For now, political party representatives win because they have stronger infrastructure, etc. I'll just say it on one small case that's indicative of me. Of the 19 presidents of Belgrade University in the conference, 19 presidents have the Belgrade University, 18 are men, one is not the case, for example, with representatives of some private universities, where they are mostly in most girls, i.e. Students, which says that those representing Belgrade University, I am talking about him as the biggest university, not reducing the fact that the Conference represents all universities in Serbia, introduces a system of values that seems to me to be out of line with the policy this country is leading in terms of gender equality and percentage of women's representation, which says some other criteria are prevailing. So, I'd say these are party-political interests among students. So, to be clear, the Conference is already a member of the Student Union of Europe. Look at the website. They're a member, they just can't use funds because they didn't have an account. I simply fear that the moment it is seen that this account is made by a state institution, those funds may be obtained in a difficult way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2680	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Nenad Canka as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and suggests that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Nenad Canka, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're continuing our work. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2681	Thank you. Mrs. Kovac, you'll be counting on me for the time of the authorized representative, not the group. Minister, thank you for your detailed explanation of why you rejected this amendment. You basically repeated what we got as an explanation for why the amendment was rejected, and mostly nothing here is disputed by those things you said. What you all MPs who have read in detail this bill, have made them do, we who are not lawyers, is simply look at where the register that institutions or organisations register in is. Here you did not accept one, in my opinion, a good amendment, that, like most legal entities, that registration is done at the Agency for Economic Registers. I'm not sure when that law was passed, but it seems to me that when these laws were passed, there are very few institutions or organizations that are registered in these court registers. Then I was thinking maybe we should do this in that special register, where political parties, citizens' associations, NGOs are mostly registered. I think it's run by the Department of Local Self-Government. Under the law, they have a special register. But this isn't a classic community of citizens. When you look at who registers in the court register, it's a state institution, public service and private institutions. So it seems to me that this student conference is not one of these subjects. At least I want to be ironic and say that it really shouldn't be a private institution. This is where my colleague was talking about how these conferences are being abused a lot. The example is that in one conference you only have one woman, or student, and that in another conference of private universities is a very different representation. That suggests that there's something wrong, that they're not as independent as they'd like to be. I think you should have accepted this amendment. What confused me yesterday when you said on the board that it wasn't just an interpretation of the secretary of the ministry, so the people who are doing these legal tasks at the ministry, but that this was the explanation of the Serbian Government's legislation, and I took it a little bit. I'm counting, that's where the great legal experts sit, so I guess they know what they're talking about. It seems to me before that you suggested this by momentum because in 2006, some of the conferences were registered in that court register, and you didn't think twice about it, so I think you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2682	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2683	Now, let the minister ask the MPs. Please explain to me what gender equality has to do with the right to its own opinion? I'd like you to explain that to me. My colleague Derrett mentioned 18 men and one colleague and you mention it and I don't understand it at all. What difference does it make if 18 representatives of Belgrade University are men, what does it have to do with their autonomy and the right to express their position? I see you're implying political belongings as well. Please explain to me that both I and the public of Serbia would understand what you wanted to say. The famous question of Bora Corbe – that was the hardest, she said, to me when I was a student, what did the writer mean? Please help me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2684	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2685	Don't quote Bora Corba, the DSS will do it with pleasure. Now let me explain. I assume you know that in the previous term, this congregation passed a law called the Gender Equality Act. That's the government you participated in. So you voted in favour of that bill. That law regulates exactly what I'm talking about, so thanks to that law, we got 30% less represented gender today in the National Assembly. I am proud of this law, and we have applied it more clearly, so that there are 80 very capable, beautiful women in the congregation today, who have ennobled the work of this home. That's what I can say because I've been in the past few conferences, where there's been a lot less women. As much as they respect it, I don't know, but all the institutions, organizations, where you have a choice, even appointments, there are even talk about boards of directors, unfortunately, that law of some institutions respect, some don't. The student conference had to take care of which gender was less represented in the election. You said what did the writer mean? Well, for example, in that student conference, I don't accuse your political party, all these parties participated, politics has a lot of influence, and in politics it's mostly men who are stronger and who have more power to fight through these political bars, etc. You have a woman's glass ceiling, where a student gives up on it, that she simply can't get into some dirty political struggle. I'm going back to the beginning. Therefore, the conference now that it is registered will be a legal person, i.e. if registered in this court register will be a state institution. It is under the obligation to respect the Law on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2686	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2687	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. This first part, thank you for the explanation, because it's more for the public than for me. I know what you're talking about, but I didn't ask you that. I asked in the context of the information that my colleague Derrett took and which one of you called. It's part of the autonomy of student organizations. They chose their own representatives. They chose their representatives, no one affected them whether they were going to choose a colleague or a colleague. Here she was, to say the insinuation, that 18 men are, uh, politics is involved. I prayed for that little detail to be clarified, because the representatives of the students, absolutely insist, when they come to the Ministry and when the meetings are held, that the representatives of political parties, who are eventually council members in some town halls, not to attend these meetings, would not have a party mark, and their right to support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2688	Thank you. Mr. Deretta, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2689	Come on, you first. I'll leave it to the missus.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2690	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2691	Let me finish this line of replicas. First of all, it does not reflect the gender structure of students, not at any university, so it is not possible to study 10% of women at all universities. So, first it's problematic. Secondly, and all the political parties, when we made the parliamentary lists of candidates for the council, we all got, or our municipal committees got the experience, not to talk about candidates for MPs, so the instruction you have to follow, because there would probably be 90% of the men, and only 10% of the women, that this was left at will. So we've all been instructed, that it must be every third woman, or member of a less represented sex. So I'm saying that it's controversial that this conference, or all these associations, doesn't account for it and that they haven't been given instructions as it has to, simply to balance it. So if we have 18 men and one woman, it doesn't really reflect the natural structure of students.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2692	Thank you. Mr. Derrett, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2693	Thank you very much. First of all, please, I did not insinuate anything, but I made it very clear, so I would ask you to choose words when describing what the MP or minister said. So I made it very clear that as the lady has already mentioned, this structure, I am talking about Belgrade University, at all, about the conference. This structure of representatives of Belgrade University students does not reflect the first composition of the student body, one, and two, I expect you to expect that the moment the state becomes founder by giving this jury an account to the Student Conference, the rule that the Student Conference, whose founder, must respect the Law on the percentage of representatives of the minority group, that gender equality should be respected in the future, if it has not been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2694	Thank you. Minister Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2695	Thank you for your concern, but we will not interfere with their choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2696	Thank you. Mr. Deretta, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2697	Mr. Minister, you may not interfere as the Ministry, but in other institutions where you are active such as political parties etc., perhaps you could point to your young colleagues a problem that no doubt arises at the university. I'm the question of the number of students in this body tied to a value system, which is obviously being promoted at the university and among the students. That's what I'm worried about, a team before, as my colleague says, students are more at university than men. Therefore, what is best said about the Student Conference, at least when it comes to Belgrade University, is that it is inadequately representing universities and all you agree with them is an agreement with inadequate students' representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2698	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2699	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although I am a woman who appears after these replicas of gender equality, I will not discuss it. I want something a little different to set things up. If he's the founder of a student conference of states, which becomes when he gets a jury account, then that body is no longer a student body but a state body. If a body is a state, to whom it suits, to whom it lays accounts, to whom it finance, whose interests it defends. If we already know, and we know, let's not pretend it's an unknown fact, that the parties have a big influence and they're trying to have the greatest influence in the student conference, will you, Mr. Minister, convince me that the parties in power will not use that influence. You're not going to influence gender equality right now, but I'm pretty sure you want to influence some of the other things that this student conference is going to bring as views. What I mean and what I mean is, a wise government would be really interested in having a partner in student conferences, and no actor to play a role they write. We've had it in the 1990s, such an organization has made a gift-mar in this country. She confused students and the public and the state and everyone else. I think this way is a step back, and there's no need to take a step back. They profiled student organisations, gave them the right to go ahead in that segment, to really be student representatives and to fight for the interests of students. You remember that famous student organization and the name of their leader, if that's what it's called, I can tell you, but I remember very well that they didn't represent the students. Don't let Mr. Minister have one member who looks completely harmless in this story, stay on this because we're going to take a step back. It's going to happen very soon that we're going to have students on the street who are going to stand behind the fact that they're not going to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2700	Thank you. Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2701	I would ask you not to underestimate the students and their right to speak on behalf of the population they represent and to identify each other as they please. And I would ask you, especially colleague Vojić Markovic, to take care of what you say. The student representative in the previous term was the DSS boardman, everyone knew it and you knew it, but then probably, you didn't have the basis for this kind of discussion. Students pick their own representatives and dots. If you want to accept it then fine, if you won't accept it and that's okay, but don't put something on the Ministry's back that doesn't have anything to do with it. Please come when they have scheduled their conference and address them in a way that you consider appropriate and tell them all about it. You ask them for what you ask me now, and you know the answer in advance. They're completely autonomous. Conference of the University of Serbia, presented in this case by the president of Belgrade University, Prof. Kovacevic, representing all universities and they are registered as a legal person. In whose name do they speak, do you think? On behalf of the University of Serbia, of all Serbian universities. Does anyone ask these people political character, no. There may be some who are politically determined, that's their right, but within the choice of politics there is no. Please understand that. A student conference of the University of Serbia and a student conference of higher schools and universities, they are all gathered together and represent everything. I don't know if you knew, but in the previous term, a representative of the Student Parliament was a member of the DSS, which is politics. Excellent, so what, then, questions the basis on which you ask a question addressed to the Minister. Now, if they get legal status, now the minister will interfere. He won't interfere, and he can't interfere, first of all they won't allow him to interfere, and the minister doesn't think to interfere. Let them choose whom they want and express their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2702	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2703	Mr. Minister, please don't underestimate me. What I've told you is very clear arguments and I've said them very openly. I haven't said for a moment that I'm underestimating students, but I don't underestimate you, Mr. Minister, or what your party's been doing for the past 20 years. The students have never demonstrated against the DSS, but for God's sake, they've been against your party for years. From that experience, from the position of someone who was in that story, I remind you to step back. So I'm very open to it and I'm not threatening anyone, I'm just clearly talking about it and I'm asking you not to underestimate my arguments. I don't underestimate students, but for God's sake, I'm overestimated by the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2704	Thank you. People's MP Miljenko Deretta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2705	Thank you. So if there's a misunderstanding here, he's very simple to resolve. So far, until it is registered by the state, the conference is a formal independent institution, which represents students. The moment it's registered in this register, it stops being and you can say that they all represent freely within the status you give, but formally it changes its character. It becomes founded by the state. I'd like you to take that distinction seriously. So this is a consequence that will not be seen immediately, but over time more, I am confident, will show as a very important element for selecting a representative who will represent students within the conference. That's one thing. Secondly, of course, we will ask a question and will ask the youth above all LDP, the question of other representatives of student organisations, who should also pass a conference that is now becoming state-run, I repeat, becoming a state institution, being able to communicate freely with the state and with the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2706	Thank you. Minister Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2707	Thank you, Mr. Dereta. This second question is a question that will now come to the agenda. There is, I should say, the position of a student conference now in Serbia's parliaments that all student organisations participate in writing law on student organisation, in order to just avoid the trap of a legitimate representative of students in individual universities, or universities. We also invited colleagues who participated in the "Tempus" programme, to see how experienced they are in other countries of Europe and then to make a joint law on student organisation, where it would be possible to find a literally mechanism for all students who want to do so at all universities in Serbia to participate in the selection of their representatives, so that those who really, I say, spill that solution would be a legitimate representative of students and then to avoid possible assessments, some of whom we say here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2708	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives finds that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2709	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have now gone a little far and wide around this first amendment. I studied in the '90s, and it was always a political organization, when we talk about the student union. As far as I know from the stories of my colleagues who were older and before 1990 it was an absolute political organization and those stories by 2002 and 2003, I know it was also a political organization. Maybe it's not like that today, but you have to understand our fear, and you can't explain to us that you talked to the students. Allow me, we have some students in our own parties, and we organized some forums and consulted some students. We didn't exactly make these suggestions by heart. I do not fully agree with my previous colleagues, of course, but it is an urgency that the conferences of the university and the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies registered to the court registry are not an excuse that this can or cannot be registered at the Association of Citizens or in the APR. We also consider here that these two organizations, which you listed as justification, are not well registered and that the court register is quite a rigid framework for students, although I speak for my political organization "Green" is very cruel for one of our liberal visions of modern society. Doesn't necessarily mean we're right. You have rejected that amendment and it is not disputed. I wouldn't go into it about gender and gender equality, but we've been chosen here on some principle. Maybe we'd all be men or we'd be all women if someone voted the way he wanted. There must be a minimum, as there is a minimum in this congregation. In that sense, I still find it too rigid to be in the court register. If it wasn't right, then let's change those previous two registrations, not make this one wrong. Thank you. Of course, with the best of intentions are all suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2710	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same text was submitted to the 4th Amendment by MP Ivan Karic and the joint MPs of Svetislav Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korac and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? National MP Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2711	Thank you. I'm reporting for the rejection of our amendment. I'm in discussion with Mr. Secretary, and I welcome, of course, the chairman and all my colleagues. We've already discussed this, and I think we've come to the conclusion that the implementation of the Bologna process is not going at the pace we expected. There is also this amendment, which we wanted to point out that the reduction of the number of test deadlines under these circumstances is an additional burden for students and that it is possible for this to be dealt with in a palitative way by the introduction of potentially extraordinary deadlines by individual colleges to be something that will further expose students and their families to the costs under these circumstances of the economic crisis. You remember that I offered, even if it was a radical solution, not to be touched at this point, and that's what I said in principle. That proposal by my colleague Banovic, who was somewhat transitional, to allow at least four and six deadlines, something that at the moment might solve a problem that is immaterial. What you are saying in your explanation of the rejection of amendments, where you say that the number of test deadlines will be changed in the way you have predicted, i.e. to reduce, in order to allow higher education institutions to focus on providing and increasing the quality and efficiency of the teaching process, reducing student burdens, continuing student knowledge checks, increased colloquium and so on, assures me that we have absolutely recognized that this cannot happen in these circumstances. That is why we have suggested that you try to solve the matter, therefore, when more extensive changes to the Law on Higher Education are approached, and not at this point, when it is clear that politics and the Bologna process have not been fully implemented, even when implemented, you know that it is easy to stop at many levels, and I think we will all agree that it is already stopped at this low percentage of passivity, which we have all seen together and recognized. What I also want to point out is that time is not on our side. Even if we were to reach an agreement on the pace of completing the Bologna process and its implementation, we are already talking about a third decade of this millennium, and we think it is necessary to reconsider this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2712	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. National MP Neven the Flowering, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2713	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would only briefly like to announce the position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia under this article, which is very controversial, as regards the reduction of the test deadlines and to explain why we have abstained from submitting amendments to this point, that is, this member of the bill. We're primarily against the fact that students are downgraded by probationary deadlines. We are to leave them with as many deadlines as they need, but on the other hand, we respect the reality that even teachers who have been raised have to write as many scientific papers as they need to, to be chosen to call, they don't sometimes have time to hold test deadlines to the extent that it might suit students. So we need to find a balance in the need of life itself between the specific needs of the professor and their burden and the concrete burden of students. To conclude, we think this is a good bill. We think this is a temporary solution, and sooner or later, we're going to have to go to some system solution, to do this in such a balance that it's going to be stable. This law is the answer to life itself. If the needs of life change, members of the law will likely change. Please don't think of this as a hard, concrete solution that is now a sacred letter. The Bible is a holy letter. This is just one law that will adapt to life, and that is why we felt that this should be supported at this point, even though all sectors of the state and education are in this state, that we should try to raise them in some way. That's why we are for this bill of law and specifically for this member. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2714	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2715	I thank the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, for this fourth amendment we had a wish and I will give you an example. We had a desire to go out to the students to meet this amendment, and we probably all have that wish together, but in different ways. I'm going to give you an example of two of the same colleges, with the same class name and two of the same textbooks, almost identical, which have practically identical numbers of sides. At one university, the exam is passed from parts and tests are conducted and 50 students are eligible for the final exam in four days with one professor, if they want a higher score than six. At the second university, 150 students respond to this exam in general, in two terms, with one professor. If this is Bologna, then there's something we haven't figured out right here. The message of our amendment is that more opportunities for students are still more possibilities. We all forget very quickly, when we get out of the student benches, the troubles, the problems, the deadlines. We think, if you want to make a thing to absurdity, that students should have 12 deadlines over the year, when they learn. I'm not talking about the criteria and don't respect our criteria. When they learn, when they get the exam ready, they need to take the exam and pass it if they know it. After all, who is there for whom - the state because of citizens or citizens because of the state? College students or college students, etc.? Of course, it's more of a philosophical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2716	National MP Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2717	Just for a little while, relative to the argument of a fellow Florist. The fact that we know in advance all of us who are part of the academic community, and that's every argument that needs to be considered from the point of view of teaching staff at universities, but also with every good will to understand it because I'm subject to it myself, it's clear that you'll be burdening teachers through extraordinary deadlines anyway. So that argument, in that sense, I think it's falling into the water. As for the necessity of these changes that a colleague of Cvetićan himself mentioned, I also spoke about this in principle debate, and I was just asking you not to treat the law as a legal act for one-time use, because by not being able to send this solution to the bill, we are actually going to be in a position to re-change the law very on the same basis. I think it's smarter to think about a systematic, system solution, and thus approach this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2718	The People's MP, Neven the Florist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2719	Very short, just one minute. I absolutely agree with you that we need a systematic solution and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always support any solution that can last. I don't think any smart party sitting in this House should have any misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2720	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2721	Thank you. I filed in the same text the amendments for the following reasons. Minister, we're starting at the end. For what? We passed the Higher Education Act in 2005. Then a fundamental reform of higher education was announced, which we fully advocate, except for the application of Bologna. The question is how much is it applied, for a number of reasons that are more or less known. I think that only when we fully apply Bologna when we fully enable students to study as at European universities, because you have called in defense of these changes to European and world colleges, that there are colleges with two deadlines, three test deadlines, etc. Yes, Minister. But there's a professor in charge of 10 or 15 students, and here's a professor for a thousand students. He hasn't seen or recognized them in his life, and he's never seen them in his first exam. How do exams go down there? Through seminar papers, colloquiums, etc. Of course, that possibility is very much in practice for us, but it's not. For what? We know that in certain universities, scientific and teaching councils are opposed to the decisions of professors to enable students to do so. Who's going to end up paying the price of the wrong system? Students. One more thing, everyone we studied knows that at least the professor spends his time on the exam itself. For what? The legal exam, the people who passed the bar exam, passed for one afternoon, the whole college. When can a professor arrange an exam? This afternoon, Saturday, Sunday, which is often done. Will this be an explanation that we will allow these teachers to pay more attention to the students of scientific work, working with them, etc.? I don't think so. And we'll just burden the students. Of course it's not a subject... Mr. Chikiriz, I'll just let you know during the time. I will use the time of the parliamentary group. (President: Will you use the time of the parliamentary group? All right. ) Of course it's not the subject of basic education, but you've been acting as Minister of Education for the fifth year. You must finally break, because in many interviews and your statements, you say that our education system is obsolete, that learning unnecessary knowledge, that knowledge is not functional, that we have a problem, most often, with students who end up with graduates, that when they come to work, they are simply unusable because we do not do what we do in world colleges. Students spend six months to a year studying practical work in a company or in a company and the moment they graduate, he is fully qualified for work and can create a profile for the employer. Here when a diplomat comes, so it's one really old, surviving, not to use some more difficult expression, the way of all education. You know when a kid in primary school starts in first grade, you know what parents say first? Buy him that backpack with the amplifier, so the kid doesn't bend the spine from the weight of the textbook he's wearing. What's going on in the second, third, fourth year of primary school? Parents can't handle a lot of math assignments that get basics. Then teachers send another professor to private classes, etc. So we can talk about the problems of our education system by morning. This would be just fine if we had made a fundamental reform of the education system. You know what students at European universities say, to whom the professor pays enough attention, they have regular semesters, then colloquiums, they know each other, they see each other regularly? They say I'm ashamed not to pass the exam and I don't know anything in front of a professor like that, who gave me so much trust and who didn't just teach me knowledge, what is done to us. Here are the professors, I'm not saying in general, there's everything and everything from the best to the worst examples, but basically that's what the analysis says, that teachers are trying to teach the student knowledge. What's going on in a normal good education system? They're preparing a student and a student for life. In addition to knowing that he has ethics, knowing what he's going to do, having social intelligence, having a teacher's relationship has to change completely, as in medicine, the most important thing in this ethical relationship is a doctor-patient. In the education system is the most important relationship of professor - student. So, you've been saying that for the fifth year, we have to fully reform our education system. Anything that is in the interest of students, in the interest of professors, in the interest of the state, our parliamentary group will support without any problems. But before these basic reforms, we did nothing important to facilitate the position of students, and then we further made their position more difficult, by bringing it down from six test deadlines to four test deadlines, which is changing one semester, and two semester exams, etc. Sometimes Roman law was taught for nine months. Now there's a college where it only teaches, say, 14 weeks and so on. So, this lifeless education system, this obsolescence of our education system, this overload of unimportant knowledge, the knowledge that is not needed for life tomorrow, we have to change that. Of course, in the discussion of the following members, I will point out in the opinion of our parliamentary group what are the most important problems in the education system, but I am telling you, as Minister, to put up sleeves, immediately reforming primary education, education in secondary schools and reforming higher education. You don't have to do like Finland did, but you do it in a way that's acceptable to society as a whole, and you'll have our support. If not, none of this is make-up, which is aggravating the status of students, which is cosmetic changes, which is the interest of the university or the state to make as few people as possible, the students are on the budget, so how are we going to reduce the number of students on the budget to save some money for the state, let's cut their test deadlines, and so we're going to solve the problem. That's not how the problem is solved, it's how it gets along.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2722	Thank you. Minister Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2723	Thank you, fellow Chiquiriz, for these words. I'd like you to take a look or get acquainted with the process of accreditation of higher education institutions. And if you look at the standards, made by the National Alliance for Higher Education and implemented in its work by the Accreditation Commission, you will realize that exactly what you are talking about should be applied in practice. Higher education institutions are completely autonomous when proposing a student programme, which is the subject of accreditation. They decide what the content of a specific study programme is, or subject content, which is obtained after the completion of the study programme, they are those who cooperate or do not cooperate with the economy, in the part of which you are talking about some practical knowledge. Standards also talk about that second dimension you mentioned, the ratio of the number of teachers and students. That's why they have different standards regarding scientific areas, whether it's colleges in the field of natural sciences or social sciences. That's why we were forced to increase the number of employees in higher education institutions, because the conditions of accreditation required that there be a degree of burden on teachers of such level to know exactly where what was what, and how many professors were doing. That is why it insists on the conditions in which it continues to be implemented. In the end, some have received, and some have not received a positive opinion from the accreditation commission, and then the National High Education Council decided in the second degree. Several times over the past few years, we've had meetings with both the Chamber of Commerce and employers insisting on this particular relationship between higher education and economy, that business be involved, to say what it wants from higher education, even if it has to finance certain programmes, because it was once in a country that existed two decades ago. You know, transition and failed privatisation, which everyone talks about with their mouths full, are some and how they participated in the adoption of the Privatisation Act, practically destroyed our economy. With the destruction of the economy, the relationship between businesses and higher education has almost ceased to exist. We constantly call on the economy, regardless of which company it is, which wants to, to invest in education, that this attitude towards higher education is not just about funding a successful student, student of the generation, award winner or someone who won the international competition. As far as education is concerned, believe me, you'd be surprised to see what individual universities, to say, have as part of their curricula and programs and how effective students are. The point is to get as many as possible. Not that the issue will solve the number of deadlines, but the issue will solve the content of the work. If at the Faculty of Architecture 58.4% of students score 60 points, 28.7% of students score between 48-59 points, make your own conclusion on the percentage of students. At the Faculty of Education, only 2% of students scored 60 points, but 47.4% reached between 48-59, as it is part of Belgrade University. I have information for each of these 29 universities. You'd be fraternizing if you could see that there's a number somewhere below 10 and somewhere over 60. The idea is the academic community through a conference by the Serbian University to get rid of it. We talked to the board yesterday about solving what the law cannot prescribe, and what needs to be solved right through the better work of the higher education institutions themselves. The method of teaching, in particular the concept of content of the teaching programme, more frequent examinations of knowledge, content of textbooks, its scope, that the content is understandable, that students can refer to additional sources, acquire knowledge, to check to be more frequent, to turn the final exam itself into one conversation. You also mentioned some countries, there are countries where the number of deadlines tested – one, but you have to work all year with students. I mentioned, when we discussed the principle of law, a three-month course in Oxford. If you're missing two weeks a semester, you've practically lost a year. So everyone needs to change, of course, with changes in society, and teachers, and students. This generation of students wants to make changes with their teachers, that everyone within the university has to change. We stress, inside the university, because they're free of goodwill and legal solutions, if there's no change within the university that we're talking about. That law itself can't be solved. We had a situation, believe it or not, two years ago that at one art college, they didn't agree with the 2006 law. The result was that we all suffered, and we at the Ministry, and teachers, but also students. Why? Because the secretary of the university thought it was perfectly fine and no one checked. I understand your good will, but the essence of the story is not the number of deadlines, but what will be done in colleges for this, and that process has already begun, but it depends not only on goodwill, because goodwill really exists in all of us, but also on the behavior within the university. I don't know if you might have been in a situation to hear or read, it happened several times at universities to make one decision, and colleges act differently. When the problem arises, then the problem from the university shifts to the university and to the ministry. It's one of the heritage or the specifics of the time we live in. Again, on the other hand, I have to say that a large number of colleges and how they moved away in this process of changing the way students perform and changing the role of students in the teaching process and that students are becoming more and more active in this sequel. Someone who asks more and more questions, and gets more and more answers. It won't stop with this law, away from it. I don't know if you noticed these two members of the law, in the next school year, which starts on Monday, the number of exam deadlines will be six, in the next five, and in 2014-2015 four. In the meantime, I hope you do, as I wish the Assembly to work in full session until the end of the term of office, will discuss the Law on Higher Education. We should also look at EU directives, so you too will be in a position to hear and to propose many solutions. As far as primary and secondary education is concerned, since you have also asked these questions, the structure of that level of education is made up of institutions, two institutions and the National Educational Council. The Ministry gives impulses, the institutions are doing this section of expertise and the National Educational Council is adopting. Different mechanisms are provided for how the system works, so that, eventually, if one cannot or does not wish for some other reason to make a decision to make decisions. These are changes that are permanent, and the effect of these changes will only be seen in the years to come. It's an objective condition. I don't believe that it happened to anyone in 2002, 2003 and 2004 that they introduced electoral items, but with the best intention of improving the knowledge of school-based founders, which produced a large number of teachers with a incomplete fund of classes. You don't think about the consequences sometimes. As the reform of high school is brilliantly imagined, with certain items and the like, but when I asked who's going to teach, if there are teachers for every class, if there's any excess and what's going to be the fate of that surplus, I've lost my answer. It's not a simple question in times we live in. Not a little bit of a simple question, so it's very complex. As for this bill, the current attitude and the mood of students, they insist on things that the law does not contain, which are important to them. These are: a better teaching organisation, a greater examination of their knowledge during teaching and better quality textbooks. Just so what you said didn't happen, and that's what we talked to the board yesterday, that there's a textbook that's large in content. Of course, the possibility is greater, since there are cases, you are right, and so did counterpart Karic, where there are more professors or fewer professors. That is why it insists on standards and their implementation in practice. That's the point. The number of deadlines will not solve this issue in itself, but the students and the Conference wanted to show that the number of deadlines is not primary, but rather the goal of seeking to change things within the university. If they're not afraid of the outcome of this process, I understand your concern, but yet it should be a little less than their concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2724	Thank you. The word has Mr. Chikiriz, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2725	I think we talked about the same problem, and we came up with the same thing. All the problems I mentioned, you mentioned them. Obviously, many problems exist. That's why I said that until we solve these problems and with high school institutions, until the relationship is changed, until the National Educational Council and the Institute do what they need to do by the standards, we can't now cut test deadlines. If all this stuff you're talking about and what I'm talking about in life, the problems we mentioned if they're being solved, then maybe the students will have enough and two test deadlines or one that you mentioned. I think we're thinking the same way and it's not on my side any bad intentions. I know that by the number of deadlines tested, as proposed by the law, it is intended to decrease from year to year, but given the many problems that exist, which are certainly being solved, and some will not be resolved, there is a concern on my part, as the subjecter of the amendment, that all of this in two years, which you are talking about, will not be fully solved in a satisfactory way, which would be my wish, and that then we will put extra burden on the students. So the suggestion is to solve the problems that are ongoing, and then then reduce the number of test deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2726	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2727	Mr. Minister, all the arguments you have made are absolutely in favour of accepting the amendment and not reducing the number of test deadlines, because you yourself said that the number of test deadlines actually does not affect everything that is stated in the explanation, the focus to ensure increased quality and efficiency of the teaching process. The increased quality and efficiency of the teaching process has been transferred to the harm of students, if I may say so. I fully understand that the students of the Conference, whose founder you become, have supported this amendment, i.e. support this solution, because it is students who are actually becoming some kind of state institution and supporting this kind of intervention. Besides, I have to say, knowing the mentality of students, of course, this provided the peace of students this year. This year, six, you've put off the problem for a year. We can see who had a better guess. The moment the students find out the next school year that they've had one test period lifted, I think they'll react. I expect he'll react, because the explanation of why it actually seems to me, it's not right. In fact, it shifts the obligation to increase the efficiency of the teaching process and to ensure a better quality, and in fact it is depriving one of the students' rights. It's true, it's very nice that the Architectural Faculty has such fantastic results with six deadlines. (Zarko Obradović, from town: Pet. ) And before that, but with six obviously better than five, if you were to compare, surely. All right, we'll check those numbers, too. I like to play with numbers, and you obviously do, so we have at least one common point. Of course, in my opinion, the problem is that respect for the criteria and standards prescribed for accreditation is not being checked. Is there sufficient evidence of what is actually being offered to students in practice? When you talk to them, it generally comes down to much less what the law provides and what is the prerequisite for giving accreditation. That's the basic problem the ministry needs to deal with more. Because, as you said yourself, one thing is how something should be, and the other is how it really is. Of course, since I don't obviously belong to those smart political parties, as Mr. Cvetićanin defines them, I still think that, no matter what he supports the amendment, but he will vote against him, because he belongs to a smart political party, LDP is obviously not a smart political party, and he will insist that you continue to consider the possibility of accepting our amendment because it gives you the possibility that next year, if you create the conditions that you are about to create, you introduce five, then six. It will be an amendment to the law by one member, and it seems to me that in some way, it will not deny some of the students' rights in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2728	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2729	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has submitted this amendment precisely for the reasons my colleague Derret spoke of. With this bill, or this Article 4, we will have such a situation that students will be satisfied only this year, and by the next year we can expect a kind of dissatisfaction of students who will certainly show up with some kind of demonstration, leading to the fact that we will most likely have to change this bill again. The second fact that goes in favour of this amendment, or an amendment from the DSS, is also a principle debate, Mr. Minister. In the principle debate, not only the MPs of the opposition, but most MPs of the ruling parties, in a direct or indirect way, opposed this bill, or this Article 4, because they believe that it is bad, or that the reduction of the number of deadlines in question should be due to all that you have stated in this reasoning, rather than as a prerequisite. We think all of this is going to happen that you've been talking about, so we're gradually reducing the number of test deadlines. First we have to meet these conditions, and then we have to realize that these conditions are met, and only then do we go into the process of reducing the number of deadlines tested. Secondly, what I wanted to tell you, and that's your little discussion, Mr. Minister, where you must have gone unconsciously. In fact, you also support this permanent degradation of the market economy, i.e. it is all the privatisation, i.e. the bad privatisation law. The economy has failed because of the bad privatisation law and everything else. That's not true, you know that. The economy in Serbia has collapsed due to a poor policy that has been implemented since 1990 until today, except for a brief period of Mr Zoran Djindjic's government. That's why the economy has fallen, that is, our businesses have no place to export anymore, because our markets have been cut. Reduced due to the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, due to our bad relations with the countries in the environment, where it is quite logical that we export our products, on the one hand. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, we spoke to you in the previous term and advocated, if you remember, in 2009, we asked the then government, where you were also Minister of Education, to direct one-third of the annual growth of the gross social product directly into the development of school and scientific research institutions. Not in education, in the part about wages, but in that development. That's millions of euros. The second situation, in 2010, students strike because the state, or universities did not have fivem euros to expand the number of students on the budget. The assembly in the then composition and the government gave millions of euros to public enterprises, losers and loans and subsidies. When we talk about education, when we talk about future development, we're all declarative about it, and when we need to separate the money, that's when we all keep our mouths shut. I'll remind you, we've made one proposal last time and Tuesday. Raising the mining rent in Serbia was defined by the law we passed last year. Seven per cent of January 1st, 2013 is due to pay all firms using the Republic of Serbia's mining wealth. I think it's very important. We ask the question whether Gazprom will pay a 7% mining rent as of January 1st, after the interstate agreement provides for it to be 3%. If they do, let's get those funds, make sure that those funds go to education. These are about 30m to 40m euros in funding for the Republic of Serbia's additional budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2730	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2731	Mr. Hajdarevic, we're turning off the topic, but I'm staying on what I said was a very bad privatisation, a disaster, and it led to the breaking of ties between higher education institutions and businesses. If you have another court regarding privatisation, you are one of the few MPs who thinks so. If you think she was successful, no problem, just say so and it will be interesting for all Serbian citizens to hear. Of course, try to explain that attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2732	Thank you. Mr. Hajdarevic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2733	You know what, Mr. Minister, LDP didn't participate in the privatisation process. Your party is. The first privatisation law was passed by the Slobodan Milosevic government during the 1990s when your party was party number one in Serbia. You're responsible for poor privatisation, and please don't talk about it and transfer that responsibility to the LDP. You, i.e. your party, I said, are also responsible for this interstate agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation on the sale of NIS, for which we remain a minimum of 50m euros annually only because of the difference in the mine rent, which is about 10% in the state environment, and these interstate agreements provide for 3%. Please don't transfer it to the LDP. We're trying to point out your problems, but what we're asking of you as a minister and as a party of the ruling coalition is that the privatisation process is not constantly portrayed as something that is bad. Privatisation must be done. Is there a need for better privatisation? Yeah. But privatisation as a process must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2734	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2735	I'm sorry to have to talk about something that is not the topic of the agenda of this session, but I would remind Mr. Hajdarevic that she herself is jumping off the topic. About privatisation and contracts with NIS are two different things, or are the same things, but you said, you made your point about privatisation. I repeat once again, privatisation was very bad, terrible, catastrophic. Several hundred people lost their jobs, lost their jobs for privatisation, due to laws the DOS passed after 200 years. Exactly the privatisation process began at a time when the Socialists organised power and it is a pity that this law was not time-limited because I did not notice that the workers of "Knjiza Miloša", "Hemofarma", or "Apatian brewery", complained about the privatisation process that was made at the time. No, on the contrary, what exists as a privatisation lawsuit is everything that happened after that at the time of DOS. I didn't call LDP, but I told you personally because you personally volunteered to have a view of privatisation, which I personally don't think is true. You go ahead, explain it if you think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2736	Thank you. Mr. Hajdarevic, I'm going to give you one more right to the replica, but this concludes the story of privatisation and we're going back to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2737	I thank the chairman. You know what, Mr. Minister, we need to ask you a question, not you to the MPs. We chose you. One more thing, without a job, hundreds of thousands of Serbian workers remained in the 1990s, due to war policy, the Slobodan Milosevic regime, which, due to sanctions resulting from the war policy, not the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2738	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2739	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, state secretaries, respected fellow MPs, given that more discussions went beyond the topic of the agenda, I did not report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but to point out something that implies the conclusion of all these discussions so far, and that is obviously ignoring the essence. When we are discussing an amendment relating to a reduction in the number of deadlines under examination, it is obvious that something is neglected that no one can doubt, that the obligation of the university is when the number of deadlines examined is reduced, to adapt both the teaching process, i.e. the educational and teaching process, and the process of grading and agreeing with the number of deadlines. It is logical that this will lead to a goal that is pursued by this change. The quality of grading and paying attention to students precisely in this direction implies that students are affirmed in terms of how they will master the material and later be adequately and evaluated. It's obvious there wasn't any talk about this at all. In addition, it seems to me that in all discussions at today's session, the Ministry is simply trying to drag itself into a trap, starting with some thesis, about the alleged violation of gender equality, and how well it is known that students not only enjoy autonomy, but also have constitutional rights and constitutional freedoms. They have the right to be elected and elected, the right to be political. This feast and this session would be full of speeches and a full mouth of violation of constitutional rights and constitutional freedoms of students, to be determined in this direction by the Ministry and the State. On the contrary, it is not so. Essentially, what matters is that the Ministry is certainly not going to get caught in such a trap, and I'm going to say it on a pessimistic note, and as far as the number of test deadlines are concerned, these are only prejudices, which do not have an actual foundation, and the fact will have the moment when such a process is brought to life, and once such a process is agreed on by all the other processes, in the context of studying students, in colleges, because there will be a college obligation here to adapt their system of work, according to these changes, which are required by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2740	Thank you. There are no more entries for the word, for this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2741	Here's the minister I think this debate is of great benefit, above all both to the Ministry and to the students and to the higher education institutions. For what? I think we came to a common conclusion and a fellow predecessor who spoke said what we said, what you said, and there's general agreement. So high school institutions haven't done their part of the job completely. In addition to what hasn't been done, we're now going to cut the number of test deadlines, pretending like it's done. In doing so, the ministry cannot play a fully passive role. Where's the Ministry's interventionism? Where's the tracking program? Where's the control? Where are the reports that work by standard, who doesn't? I know that's what this is about, but that's why I'm saying, what we're talking about right now should be the final measure, the final phase, and not the first, of course. Secondly, it's true, we have extraordinary colleges, extraordinary professors, outstanding teaching staff, extraordinary results in many areas, but it's neither my merit nor anyone in this class, it's credit, first of all, for professors and students and probably the environment that created a higher school institution with its scientific and teaching staff. Of course, I'll mention FON, and we all know that maybe already in the second, third year of study, these students are already lobbying and offering world companies already contracts and prospects to hire them as soon as they graduate from college, or the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade and a series of very good universities. But what a defeating minister, when we talk about good, I'm not just talking about good or bad, but I'm trying to rise to the pedestal of objectivity. On the 2007 PISA test, in the competition of 57 countries in the world, Serbian students took 41 seats, below average in all three areas, reading, mathematical and scientific literacy. What's the consequence? The result of all this stuff I'm talking about. The result of one system, which I believe we all have a good will to change it. That is why I fully agree with my colleagues, we, or you will come in a year from now, perhaps with a proposal from the government to change only one member of the Higher Education Act, to return the number of exam deadlines from five to six, because you will have a reaction from students that no one wants, not you or we, but because in conversations with students these days, everyone has spoken to us as MPs and asked us to say this on their behalf. The problems we can talk about are numerous. A student studying at Belgrade University, he has nothing to look for in Belgrade at a monthly level without 50,000 dinars, if he has no student accommodations. If you study two or three from your family, and the average salary is 40,000 dinars, so we cancel their number of test deadlines, so we increase the number of entry points next year, and we haven't solved the previous problems and who, who pays the ultimate price of everything others haven't done, is the student who's least responsible here. So please, you have time to think, we'll delay the problem, wait for us next year at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2742	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2743	Mr. Chikiriz, I'd like to ask you if you can, although you want to read the second part of that statement about the results of the PISA tests that were last, which is that we increased the reading literacy by 40%, the science by 8%, mathematically by 7%, and reduced functional illiteracy from 51 to 32, and that the report was the one you're talking about, which you only read the first part, says that no country within the OECD in ten years in one cycle has made a better result, but that one. That didn't affect the movement of our place on the list, because we were three years ago, when the previous check was even worse, so this was an increase in comparison, and it wasn't enough, of course. We'll see now in December if we've really made a shift, because the analysts inside the OECD estimate, when someone makes a shift so many points, 7-8, that's an indication that the education system is moving forward. Now we will see in December whether this trend, let me say, continues and whether it will be a positive movement or not, and, of course, the solutions will be wasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2744	Thank you. Mirko Chikiriz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2745	It's true what you said, but I've pointed to problems and of course we're here as MPs to support Bologna's standards. But once again to touch, I think, the essence of the problem. What we all wanted, in practice, doesn't exist. When in practice there is, then let's cut the number of test deadlines and increase the number of points, I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2746	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2747	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I think it's encouraging that only seven members of the law you've proposed, a change of law, have caused such a long debate, which speaks of the fact that in this assembly, at this point education is a very important topic. I think it is encouraging, too, that most of the Members present here speak in favour of improving the quality of education, and that is how much I understand your intention and your desire. What is the problem, and in this case, is the question – who suffers because of the fact that some changes are not carried out properly? In this case, they're students. You mentioned high school and law and said that the law is very good and that its application brings certain consequences. What about the extra teacher that comes out of it? What about teachers who lose a class fund? There is the essence of the problem, which then prevails over the social aspect of the whole thing, at the expense of the quality of teaching and education. The result is that picture of schools that exist in public and those results in schools that we see every day. You say we cut to 30% functional illiteracy of 50%. Thirty is scary, of course 50 even scarier. But maybe the solution is 100%, I agree it's a fantastic success, I welcome your success in all this, but obviously that's not enough yet. So long as children, generations who come are suffering from current social peace, and because of the unpreparedness to take certain risks within education, we will not have a fundamental reform of education, and for that we all seem to be behind it here, because we see that this education does not give us the results that allow us every kind of development, from the economic through democratic, political, whatever you want to call it. So this system of education doesn't achieve the extent to which it should. I ask you to simply understand that this kind of announcement and this member that includes three school years, and that exactly includes, change and let it be regulated as it is so far, so when the need is next or that of the school year, that the number is reduced so that we reduce it, that it is not something that will be completely certain generations, not those that are now ending or which in the next two years end, quite certainly, I use that mildly word, upset and cause a reaction that no one wants to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2748	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment, the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Ruzica Igic together submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2749	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I will once again try to convince you to accept this amendment of ours, and after that we will decide whether we will allow you to leave the room, since we have, I have made a joke of course, but you see how many MPs and MPs insist that you accept some of the amendments. So, this amendment in front of the DSS parliamentary group is a medium solution, i.e. you could partly include your proposal to reduce from six to four, in 2015 of the school year, and to accept the wish of a large number of MPs, i.e. the parliamentary group to reduce that number of test deadlines, i.e. our amendment reads that "the higher education institution in accordance with its statutes will decide whether to organise at least four exam deadlines, or to organise five, and no more than six". So that's why I thought that you in the ministry would recognize how good an amendment is and actually comes out to meet everyone. When it was a principle debate, I was saying and not by heart, but we were addressed by teachers and deans from individual universities. It could be concluded that the colleges of natural sciences are too many or too many deadlines of six as they are now within the law and that fewer deadlines correspond to them. However, professors and deans from the Faculty of Natural Sciences have indeed appeared, which is why you will reduce them by six test deadlines and prescribe these four. So this amendment could satisfy the interests, wishes and needs of all colleges, and thus students. These differences are clear because they are different organized classes, there are many different activities compared to when you study biology, or you study sociology. That's why we understand the need for a college of natural science to keep more deadlines. What is also being raised as a question of whether colleges will resort to the organisation of emergency test deadlines, which will also require additional financial expenditure from students and their parents. For example, I know we have a lot of private colleges that organize seven and eight exam deadlines. So, even at the moment the law spoke of a possible six, they organized the seventh extraordinary test period. I don't mean just private, but it can be an extra financial burden for students and their families. In the principle debate, you reminded us how this law was amended and how the number of test deadlines increased. You reminded us that in the original law of 2005, two deadlines were foreseen, so the amendment was made, so there were three deadlines, so we somehow came to these six that we are now trying to reduce. Therefore, there was an increase in the number of test deadlines. What is evident from the statistics on the passability and efficiency of the study is that there has also been a slight increase in this transition. Someone yesterday on the Education Committee asked if there was an increase in the efficiency of the passage precisely because we had increased the number of test deadlines. So this may be due to an increase in these test deadlines from three to six. But, well, if you don't accept, then we'll ask you and your ministry for a report next year at this time and see what kind. We won't be able to do it this year, though, because it'll be six, but we'll be able to do it in the coming years if you don't accept this amendment. Yesterday, there were a lot of words in the media around the University of Belgrade, a new rector was elected, but it was also interesting and news, apparently and Belgrade University is following what is happening in the Assembly, which is that they adopted a rule on taking exams, in order to reduce poor transit. It applies only to Belgrade University, that rule, and whether it will apply to other universities, I don't know, I guess it will. They decided in college to make things better. What's in that rulebook? He predicts that the university conducts statistics on taking exams on basic academic studies for each subject and for each test period, but he is also obliged to consider the causes... I won't go on. What confused me is that I'm surprised that colleges don't already run such statistics, it's not really statistics, but that you're up-to-date, that you're keeping track of what kind of passability is, whatever the name is, what is the passability or how many students pass and with what estimate? Now, it goes on, he says – if the success of laying an object at an annual level is less than 30%, so if less than 30% of students pass an exam, now these exams, not to say professors, are called narrow throats in the media, these are objects that are a little harder to pass. Most of us were studying, so you know every year you had an object. I can't say that it used to be the professor, some object is more extensive, more difficult, more complex, and it wasn't just because the professor had a beard or that he was so strict in nature. So this equation to me, the honor of every subject and every professor, but this kind of equation now, for example, anatomy at the medical college or the introduction to botany, I just don't think it's appropriate. What I would recommend there is, for example, that it grouped into objects of different complexity, and then observe it. This equation, I don't think it's good. What else are the deans bound to do now? That by March 1st, he will submit a report to the rector on the success of the exams in the previous school year, which again says there is no quality communication between the dean and the rector. I'm just finding out from this. Many of us have said that the main problem is the lack of quality communication and co-operation between professors and students, but it seems that even teachers do not cooperate properly. I don't want to talk about this anymore, but I'm asking you to reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2750	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2751	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister, I warned you that this debate would be extremely professional and that a large number of MPs would participate in it, if you remember. So, in the debate in principle, we told you that this law has brought extremely great attention and attention to the professional public, and to the other public and to the MPs, since everyone expects this law to be passed as soon as possible so that many students can enter the year, whether with this bill or certain amendments, we will see this after this debate. Otherwise, with this amendment, we wanted first of all to change the text of the law, and to improve the system of higher education. When it comes to this legal provision, we have different suggestions and colleges themselves. That's what my colleague Donka Banovic was talking about, social science colleges wanted six exams anyway, while natural science colleges wanted to reduce it to four exam deadlines, while students' suggestions were quite different. Most students say that even within six probation periods, they cannot meet the conditions, let alone at four. I know you wanted to change students' habits with this law, but they suggest one solution to pass the exams through the colloquiums. It would be good for you and colleges to start thinking about it. We also know that many countries in the environment have fewer test deadlines, but I hope this is not a violation of the Bologna principles and that our colleges of high-educated institutions will not undermine international credibility and reputation. So our intention was first of all not to put in a bad situation, not colleges, not students, but to find you as a legislator, but to find a Solomonian solution, and the Solomonian solution is to leave it to the colleges to constitutionally do so and thus to regulate this legal provision. I expect, too, the assistance and other parliamentary groups that have said in principle that they will support the DSS amendment, so I am calling this time too. I urge you once again to accept or consider this amendment, because the amendment has been exceedingly exceeded and will benefit both students and colleges, as well as you as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2752	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2753	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we are in the process of today's debate dealing with fine shades. One of them is this member or this law comes out to meet the students, and then we say, "This is what we would go out to the professors." The second thesis is who suffers in this process, do students suffer less at this time, or do teachers suffer less? I kind of feel like we've lost sight of the process in this part. What the process should answer is what it is, which is the problem that some students in some colleges can score 60 points, while at other universities, for example, there is no way that students can score 60 points. What's that and what's causing it and why it's happening. On the other hand, we have somehow forgotten to say what the goal of Bologna is and why, in the end, we have joined the Bologna process - more effective study, i.e. reducing years of study and, on the other hand, to raise the level and quality of knowledge. Are we doing this? Have we reached our reasons, have we come close to the reasons why we are heading for this process? What's also a fact, for the implementation of the Bologna process, we're getting lower and lower grades, which means that in our process, something's going on, that our reform is stopping or something's going on in it that we have to follow in order to intervene. Obviously, we have a problem. When we wrote this amendment and offered between four and six deadlines we really had a large number of conversations with both professors of different colleges and some deans. They offered people and some said – we have four deadlines quite enough, optimal. The others said, "We can't cover ourselves with four deadlines, we'll have a problem." That's why we offered this compromise to get colleges to choose for themselves, to give them the opportunity to have four or six deadlines. It is some certainty that every university states that it itself and autonomously chooses what is appropriate for them and that it can contribute to improving the process. That's why we don't think you've taken seriously enough of what we've suggested and that it would be good to still discuss it, because I have the impression that our amendment is indeed acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2754	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2755	Thank you. I use the time of the DS parliamentary group with the desire to leave a trail and remarks on the amendment submitted by a group of MPs, DSS Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Ružica Igic, because I read this amendment as a paradigm of everything we don't really want to talk about in society, and it concerns education. I'm going to put in a headline all these five minutes, which I'm going to try to get your attention. The education of the 21st century is such that young people are educated for jobs that do not yet exist, and people who do have to be educated to be able to do jobs that they do. There is no paradigm of education in the 20th century, but even in the Assembly, and especially in the media, where different attitudes about the state of education in Serbia are expressed, we stick to it as if it were real, and it is not. So this amendment is a paradigm, offering a solution to one matter such as the number of test deadlines, which, by the way, is the question of whether it should stand in any law at all, but it's already there, what to do, so it offers a solution to be between four and six. Why do I think this amendment is a paradigm? Because it respects reality, respects the context, where the regulation should be applied. It seems important to me, not because most of this amendment will adopt or not, but it seems important to me because it will serve as a trigger, I hope that we will really open up a debate on a subject that looks to details without surfaces, without clumps, without lack of information, interested almost exclusively the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, all that the minister has spoken of, and I am glad to say that he is obviously interested in it. The context is that in colleges you have about 10% of students who can achieve what is offered as a job, I don't get into it if they learn or learn, up to 60% of students who achieve it. These others don't reach out. The context is that you have generalization that some members of the academic community do not consider students needed at all in colleges, nor do they provide them with a service in learning and education, while others do. On such a small number of students, on this small surface, it is a beautiful country for us, but that is an ever-increasing number of people, you have such a charm from which such an amendment simply naturally arises. Why do I still consider him a paradigm? Because what has always bothered me in the context of 20th century education is that both teachers and teachers, no matter what level of education, had one attitude to catch a student, a student in what he doesn't know, which is completely upside down, that the change of thought that we can make, it seems to me, and this debate, to see what we can give to a student, a student of any knowledge, and not from the paradigm of the first half of the 20th century that students or students are caught in ignorance. Why is it as good as a paradigm to change your mind? If the process of applying Bologna is successful, then in 2015 everyone will have four, you prescribed it, not prescribed. If he's not successful, then he won't have, prescribed it, not prescribed. This life of the idea that as procedurally as it may be to dispute, because I ask you how much you want the number of deadlines tested, you give me an interval, lawyers would give me a lot of trouble, is good only because it shows us how little attention we essentially pay to data, measuring what the education system in our country needs to represent. I'm going to link it to the idea that the paradigm of this amendment has given birth to me, which is the 2013 budget. Since, in my deep confidence, we haven't passed a good Bill on amending the budget system, we haven't done well what the finance minister decides exclusively about every money, we haven't done well that there isn't any dedicated money in the budget, let's change our thinking, too, so let's see if we can get something good for education out of everything we haven't done. Can we agree that the knowledge economy to invest in which society and state invest in the lifelong learning process and what needs to change in higher education, can it be an argument for us all, whether we support Minister Zarko Obradovic, or challenge him as an opposition, to stand up and say - so when the decision has already been made that the finance minister is de facto Prime Minister, and that he exclusively decides on where the money is, that some part of the money goes to education more than before, by degree and how the Ministry of Education and Education is ready to propose? You will have this support, for the simple reason that as true as it may be that, from all the bad application of the current rules, the students suffer the most, I am so sure that if, as a society, if we all together as an institution do not expose knowledge, the knowledge economy, education, as the first and only priority of our society, we will suffer unimaginably all in five, seven, and much less years than we seem, failing to engage in what is the educational flows of the modern world. I cannot influence either the will of the majority or the will of the ministry to measure the 2013 budget well, as I cannot influence all of you to support this amendment, but what I can do, I have done. I want to keep track of how pleased it seems to me that we are enough in this assembly, if not all of us, who fully understand the context of the problem of education in Serbia, who fully understand how hard it is to break through as the first topic where money is or where decisions are actually made and how important it is to understand that if we want to change something, that we have to measure it exactly, that we know its context. This amendment, which reads – colleges, can be four, can be six and it can be in law, more than each other quite accurately describes the context that lies ahead. This law and all future regulations that the Ministry of Education will bring into this assembly shape our future. I ask you to reduce, as much as we can, interpartial disagreements, ideas or whatever, impatience and patience go and see how important it is to be the trigger of good, real, detailed debates on the development of the education system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2756	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2757	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, MPs, the aim of each law is to norm or lay down rules in a particular social area and in a particular area of social life, and to keep it in line with some of the general interests and objectives that society is pursuing at that time. During this whole debate, both in principle and in particular, I have tried to see what the objective of these provisions of the law is, especially this provision concerning the deadlines under examination. We've all heard statistics here from the minister, how many students there aren't 60 points, haven't achieved a 60-point quota, how many is 48, how much is less, and I'm just worried about the fact that the main problem is that they have six deadlines, not four points, and when they have four deadlines, not six, they're all going to switch 60 points. Simply, this kind of observation of things, why they have 48, 42, and not 60 points in percentage that would be satisfying to allow teaching next year is something that is not the problem with the number of deadlines tested, but rather the problem of working on individual universities. It is not the same when it is done, behold, there is a distinguished fellow MP Sinisa Kovacevic, who has a group of five students on film directors, and when he is giving a lecture in front of a full amphitheatre five in law school. We will certainly agree that it is not the same and that equal knowledge cannot be accepted in a group of five students and in a group at some exercises at law school or in a lecture, where there are between 50 and 100 students. There is a completely different possibility of learning, teaching and talking, considering certain things and individual subjects. We've talked a lot about this subject as part of the parliamentary group. Of us 21, as far as we are here, five of us are university professors and they all had attitudes—somewhere there are four, somewhere there are six deadlines enough, but we certainly took the view that it is absolutely insufficient for the law to define that it is only four test deadlines. We don't see that four or six test deadlines are the main problem why students don't get enough points. On the contrary, we think that the main problem is not that, but in other things, and that we should deal with these other things, rather than just the number of test deadlines. By depriving or cutting down the number of test deadlines, we will not achieve the goal that we all seek, which is primarily knowledge, and quality students who will be able to raise to one level this country and this society and ensure better development and progress of society in general. In this way, I think that reducing the test deadlines is not the goal, or the objective will not be achieved. The amendment that we as a parliamentary group have proposed to allow each university to establish between four and six deadlines, to decide for themselves in accordance with its needs, is something that will satisfy the needs of both smaller and larger universities and smaller and larger groups and allow students not to be the ones to be harmed. Justification that university professors don't have enough time to work on their education and promotion and to write doctoral dissertation, to write articles so they can hold their calls, is simply not something that's a good excuse to shorten the number of deadlines. Are we going to get into a situation the next year that we have a student protest that will result in this fact that we are changing the law? Can you guarantee us that the students won't object next year or that year there, on the number of deadlines? Can anyone here? Of course he can't. And the students will always complain. The largest number of us was a student, and we all know that those two deadlines instead of four are a lot of meanings, because they will allow a number of students to pass or score those 60 points. It is very difficult to prepare two difficult tests within one test period. We all know that. All of us, as students, had arranged a harder and easier exam and watched us pass the year. I don't think this situation is going to give a favourable result and that we are going to be facing the problem of protesting certain student organisations, perhaps not those of yours, but simply those of others who exist, which will require that the sixth deadline be laid. It is necessary to consider this provision, to allow colleges to decide on their own from four to six deadlines. I don't see what the problem is that it's so rigid to go down on this and there's no hearing for one of these amendments. We call on all MPs to vote, because somehow in the ruling coalition there is a willingness for such an amendment, and it is only the Government that may not at this time be able to look enough at reality and find it in the interest to place as many students as possible and to work on quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2758	Thank you. Next came Milan Lapcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2759	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I think what my colleagues have been saying is exactly the essence of things, and we don't need to talk about whether there will be a smaller number of exams and that our data delivery, which is, of course, necessary, by the number of students who move to next year in percentages, is important, but I think what they carry with them is the most important thing. I think it's much less important what percentages are, rather than the essence of the story that colleges don't need to produce numbers, to produce percentages, what that success is in percentages, but that the essence of the story is what they have and what they're going to bring to college as a final product. I guess we'll all agree that the criteria in higher education institutions in the last ten, fifteen years have fallen rapidly, that today we have one process where everyone is racing, from private to social colleges, which will have a number of students enrolling, and this is directly linked to what the criteria are in colleges and how the exams are passed, and by a system of less resistance, commercialisation in educational institutions takes hold, at the expense of the quality they get. I think the most important thing is that the one who goes to study, gets some knowledge at that university, not to finish as soon as possible, and that the institution boasts that there is a large number of passableness and that the shorter they study. The introduction of the market into the education system allows everyone to provide this service on equal terms. On the other hand, if you don't have a market for economy, the labour market that will measure what quality is and what isn't, what is knowledge and what isn't knowledge, then that education market turns into its opposite. You have bait, of course, I don't say for everything, but a good part of the private educational institutions that watch, since it's profitable, to enroll as many students as possible, reduce the criteria to make as much money as possible, and the diploma can write whatever you want. If you want it to say that you are the most beautiful, they tell you – you are the most beautiful, you get a diploma in a very short time, just pay for it. Since, unfortunately, there are no too many or very few real private companies looking for knowledge, so they check that knowledge when they hire someone, it's mostly a labour market down to state institutions and public enterprises, and there's that other criterion-- knowing someone to get a job and not know, then we go to the opposite, that also state institutions, state colleges, have to lower the criteria so they don't run out of students. If they lose their students, they'll be out of a job. So we also need to take more care of how we maintain the level of knowledge, or the level of quality students receive in their education, and to take less care of whether the percentage is 30, 40, 20. If we go along the line of less resistance, of course they'll all see that they finish college as soon as possible and get a degree, if they're worth the same there, they'll watch them finish as soon as possible and get a job as soon as possible. You mentioned the other day, when it was a principle debate, that this question of a quality degree is not being asked from some famous world universities – Harvard, Yale, Princeton. Yeah, but there's no one out there asking the question of what's passing. For them, there's no percentage of whether it's two percent or 92 percent. They have the threshold of knowledge -- whoever reaches the level of knowledge, he passes the exam, goes on. Whoever doesn't reach that level of knowledge, he doesn't move on. So, the point of the story is that students, I understand you, allow through the technology of passing exams, that they can reach that calling more easily. But not to lose at the level of quality knowledge and what students need to show on exams through the story of whether it's four exams or six exams. I think people should be able to show that knowledge, not to measure the percentages and say, is now a small percentage of the permeability, let's lower the criteria for someone to pass and to reach some percentages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2760	Just to let you know, it's time for the DSS parliamentary group. The next word came from MP Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2761	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will use the time of the parliamentary group, because so many MPs in different ways on this amendment give different arguments. Because we all, on the one hand, want to show not only that it is political, and it is clear that we care to allow the amendments to the common law as it is, with that explanation that the Ministry, or the Government has proposed, to allow a number of students, without additional burdens, to now enter, in accordance with the agreements or public notices they received in the previous period, but rather to take advantage of this opportunity to take a few principle questions that are not only relevant to this member of the law, but also others, to try to spend as much time as possible now, under the quote, to allow the minister to eventually accept or not accept. But not only on the basis of these arguments, it is now my request for all other MPs, and on the basis of those arguments and obligations that the ministry, or the government, has been taking over for years, because it affects everything. This is all good intentions All of us who speak for this amendment are essentially talking, on the one hand, about one good intention to relax the question of the number of deadlines tested. Not only as a legal solution, but also in the function of passability, measurement, implementation of the process, etc. On the other hand, to point out in due time that some things may be settled by voting today, perhaps by these changes, perhaps by some other changes, but also by something that the Assembly has to take care of when it brings the budget, as well as by the ministry when it participates in the draft budget. It's all the arguments we've heard each other. But to make it easier for all of us, for a moment I'm going to be, and it's rhetorical and off topic, just move into something that's also mentioned today, and it has a parallel of importance, and that way I'm still giving time space to the minister and the ministry, and we also have a ministry, we have national bodies and we have congregations and we have different legal obligations that are possible or impossible to implement. By the way, just one notice, so it doesn't go to the minister's expense. The MP mentioned earlier, when it comes to the passing of universities in the world, is not a minister. The minister agreed to the example we set. Otherwise, if you followed the question - what is the passability and how is it placed in the highest schools just as a naked notice. You had a big affair on Berkeley, by the financier, a few years ago. One kind of funding, one kind of passing. So, one of the most famous universities. Let's get back to this topic. We have, as we have in the Law on Education, been formed by Decision of the National Council Assembly. A whole series of discussions, the minister knows them, we don't know them, and it also affects the proposals for solutions, as the rector, rectorate, university, deans, students, student organisations, our individual experiences, when our children study or when we study, but something is possible, something can't be achieved. Something is not possible budgetary, and something is not possible because an agreement was reached in the meantime, so it was not correct to put it into any political function. Today, for example, it's mentioned here, as we all agree when we talk about education, so we all agree when we talk about culture. And in culture you have the National Council, except it was formed six years after the National Council of Education. The entire assembly also agreed, but the legal solution is such that it is not financed, unlike the educational one, from the item in the ministry, or budget items distributed towards the ministry, but financed by the founders of the Assembly. When we broke the agony a year ago, when we finally voted in the government, that's why I'm pointing to Minister Obradovic, to finally form a national council to give some guidance, he couldn't get into office, because he couldn't even go from where to finance. When the Ministry referred to the funding proposal, it sent a letter to the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information, and this notice is important for everyone, we have also found, today, that it has not been formed yet, to send a letter or a decision to even the Administrative Committee towards the Government, to finance this work from the existing funds. This was not done, so the auditor drew attention that the ministry helped the work of the National Council, although it has no right to do so, which is common... (President: Mr. Markovic, just please return to the topic. Of course, it's about the subject. We are now in a situation where, when we present these arguments on this amendment, the minister decides not only on the basis of this data and this data, but also on the basis of, let's say, the national education strategy, which has been completed, but has not yet been presented to us. In this neighbouring area, we will not be able to decide, although this strategy is also over, but it is not possible to respect everything, because no funding has been provided in this budget now. It is my warning that the Assembly must provide for funding in the budget for next year in order to do something in full function. This is all for us to understand how much we all agree on and just one little amendment. There is a wide range of problems that the ministry has to face in order to make a decision, even in case it accepts this amendment, and I'm just showing willingness, not only to speak to the amendment, that we all understand together both the one and the other kind of decision, because it's simply formed, surely, thanks to all of these factors. Thank you for the opportunity to compare these two areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2762	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Dr Branislav Blazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2763	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 with a desire to add two positions, pages 12 and 13, which read – if less than 30% of the students who attended the exam in question do not pass an exam with a certain interrogator, students shall have the right to take the exam within the same test period as the other interrogator. Item 13. – if, and after a re-test, less than 30% of the students who attended the exam within the test period, the higher education institution is required to review the study programme within 30 days, the way in which the studies were conducted and the way in which the examinations were conducted and the report on the measures taken was submitted to the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, it is common knowledge that there are cases in many universities that pass-by is sometimes below 10%. So 10 students come out and pass one or not. That's kind of inexplicable, so maybe there's more reason. There can be reasons for too much material, bad textbooks, bad organization in college, but the most common reasons are personal. It is about personal frustrations, sometimes the bad habits of certain professions, which only to those known, inexplicable criteria bring down all students who go out. I don't want to talk about some downsizing, but I'm talking about extreme cases. The responsibility for passing the exam couldn't have been worn just by a student. Well, that's what a professor should wear anyway. In this case, the professor is dominant and he's only interested in that exam. Anyone can knock down a student and interrogate him, but it's basically what a professor should do – it's to teach him knowledge. In well-organised societies and systems, there are unique criteria for passing exams, a unique criterion for programmes and plans of certain subjects. Unfortunately, we don't have it. With us, individuals still have a genuine need to dominate other people and show some of their supremacy, probably because red chips on many heads continue to shine. My desire, therefore, was to in some way introduce a little more justice in all of this. Because there is no one's right to build on these young people's fate because of their own, I repeat, frustration and personal bad habits. I received a reply from the ministry why this amendment was not accepted with the story that it was already incorporated into the law, that it was incorporated into acts and that there are certain criteria for self-evaluation, evaluation and self-evaluation. Maybe it's in the papers, but I'm telling you, in practice, it's not. In practice, these great people often know how to be very small. What I'd like to say is, let's say, I got a lot of questions yesterday, I'm talking about those 48 points for enrolment in next year, a medical student -- is it really going to be a criterion or is it going to be a criterion for some parole exams, so that it happens that the student will have over 50 points, and that he won't be able to enter next year because he didn't give some minor parole exam? That is one question that needs to be answered so that the public is fully informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2764	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2765	With this amendment, the esteemed colleague pointed to a major problem that exists in practice and which, through previous legal solutions and through other acts, was in some way to be removed. But it's not. I recently read a text about a teacher from Vienna whose pass-by was 97%, so it fell by less than 1% of the next school year. The professor was very concerned and first began to question himself where he, as a pedagogogogist, as an expert, was wrong and why his students did less. Of course, people do everything. Okay, there is a possibility of selecting a professor, but especially in a situation where a student cannot pass a year with a passed exam from the previous year, or if he has completed the first and passed one exam into the second year, he cannot pass the exams from the second year until he finishes his exams from the first year, even though there is this personal relationship, regardless of what it is based on. We're all witnesses to this, and probably you, ministers, have a lot more information about it than we do. I know a professor, but it's not an individual case, which doesn't talk to any of his colleagues, treats students like slaves, and he sues the whole neighborhood. But he formally meets the requirements, he's in a working relationship, he works at a high school facility. How do you really get in the way of that? In addition to what has already been prescribed, perhaps we should think positively about this amendment, because I really think that all of us in the focus of our interest in the Higher Education Act should be a student. We are all witnessing various types of harassment, conditioned primarily by the personal frustrations of professors, but also by some other luxuriant motives and others. I think maybe we should consider adopting this amendment, because, because of the practice that exists, it doesn't hurt from the extra head.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2766	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2767	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will support Mr Blazic's amendment and try to explain why. What's making the percentage of the students' passing rate less and less? Because students are facing bigger and bigger problems. These problems are seen in outdated plans and programmes, in uninteresting lectures, in expensive textbooks, etc. For example, anatomical atlas costs 7,000 dinars, and a textbook from physiology 9,000 dinars. The following problems are poor working conditions. Many of the students buy materials for work: scalpers, masks, gloves, hats, say medical school. Lack of practice, forced purchase of textbooks, are all problems faced by students, all of which requires poor passing. Of course, poor transit is also affected by what is widespread in Serbia, which is corruption at all levels, so there is corruption at university. For example, the student at the university tells you – you did little to pass the exam, to get a six, and then offers to take extra lessons with him and such a service costs you about 300 euros. The result of this is the unequal availability of higher education to different population groups. Let's just say, if you come from a poor family, studying is almost unrealistic ambition. Since they have no money, most often, regardless of the number of students in Serbia, the lack of access to higher education is primarily in small communities, among workers and peasants, or children from working and rural families. And I have suggested some amendment to introduce some relief, but these amendments have been declared unconstitutional. So if you don't have the money, you don't have the same conditions for education, you don't have the same access to higher education. It's another injustice our students have. National wealth was to serve all people, including the availability of education, and thus higher education to all. This national wealth was sucked into by those who were to organise the state and guarantee the availability of higher education to all social groups. But it's not like that. Today, some ministers, for example, have a school called "International School of Belgrade", some former ministers are paying tuition for a basic school for children of 15,000 euros. So, they make 12,000 euros... (President: Please return to the topic. I think I'm closest to the subject of all those who have spoken so far. As soon as I mention the former ministers, it's like a theme. What I'm saying is that this college money doesn't have children from poor working and peasant families, money that those who earn 12,000 euros, and they pay tuition for a child of 15,000, so I wonder why? I believe that, as I am, you will support this amendment. In the end, who burned this country's national wealth? The student isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2768	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt the draft laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. If there are no notifications under this amendment, we move on to the next one. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2769	I don't share the opinion of the board that it's an unconstitutional amendment. So he refers to a project called the Tempus. It's about equal access for everyone. Today, if you come from an environment that isn't the university's headquarters, if you come from northern Serbia or, say, Lebanon and Medvedja, the chance of enrolling is twice as small as the urban environments. If you belong to the category of poor, study is unrealistic ambition. From year to year, the number of students from the village declines, regardless of the total number of students growing. My proposed amendment was some kind of positive discrimination for those who enrolled and did not have a place of residence at the university headquarters during their enrolment. Since they have increased study costs, since their parents are raising their loans to study, since they face all the problems they face and students from the city's environments, some kind of positive discrimination was real. The amendment has been declared unconstitutional, regardless of what is, for example, the kind of positive discrimination foreseen for members of the Roma national minority and the disabled, which I fully support. So, the reliefs are for various social groups, for various stocks provided for by many laws and for these reliefs that I have provided for students who come from the inside I don't see as discrimination. I think it's more discrimination not to respect that kind of relief for them, but to what I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2770	The word is Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2771	The Honorable Chairman, with all due respect, only so that we do not come into conflict directly with the Rules of Procedure in future work. In light of the fact that the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs has assessed the amendments of counterpart Risticevic as contrary to Article 21. The constitution itself is considered to be procedurally flawed. If he is, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, he cannot be voted upon, nor debated. I'm just pointing this out for reasons why they'd do a precedent in some further work, and they'd be discussing amendments that obviously can't even get into the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2772	In our opinion, the Constitutional Affairs Committee can only declare that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution, but cannot reject it. Therefore, the National Assembly also discusses an amendment that the Committee finds out is not in conformity with the Constitution. The next speaker is MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2773	Ladies and gentlemen, I would disagree with Mr. Risticevic, I think the board did well and that accepting this amendment was a flagrant violation of human rights and guaranteed rights. What's this about? No one can be Mr. Risticevic convicted and punished for not living in a place where the university is located. That's why there are other ways. The university that retains can help and help other methods of students who have come from the interior, cheaper homes, homes where they will be placed, cheaper food, special transportation, etc., but cannot in any case receive positive points and be subjected to positive discrimination by people, i.e. students who are located in a place where the university is easier to enroll in the university, because those who have come from the interior. This looks like, we've already had such a discussion since positive discrimination is applied, when it comes to jobs. In multinational areas, if a member of Serbian nationality or some nationality competes in the same place, that is, other nationalities, that is to say, the one who is from a group of national minorities. Also, it leads to an unequal position of the Serbian citizen. I think the board fully respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it is good that such an amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2774	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2775	One short replica. I don't agree with this and it's my right. So my right and their right to interpret it as he wants to interpret it. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia recently brought down one law for 30 reasons. This law was passed by this congregation, which means that she is not always right, and especially does not mean that the board is right. When it is so that no positive discrimination can be done, then I wonder what it means to sign up to colleges and members of the Roma national minority and students with disabilities who do not meet formal requirements for enrolment. So, and a certain group is excluded and positively discriminated, I did not ask for anything else for students from the interior, since they face various difficulties. So the number of students will also be the problem Serbia faces, so unbalanced regional development. So the number of students from small communities declines in villages is almost gone. I was just trying to positively discriminate, but if the ministry doesn't think it's right, and that it can be good and that it's otherwise regulated, possibly by the number of points or I don't know in any other way, then it's nothing at all controversial, then I'm in a position to give up my amendment, but I think students, and I'm saying that I'm not doing this alone, so this is the content of the Tempus project, so that it was done at the university, that I didn't make it up myself, that was the subject that was processed on July 11th. So, I don't want to discriminate on anyone, I just wanted to contribute that people from smaller backgrounds are, here's to saying a little more even, since they're already having a lot of difficulty, just because they don't study in their place of residence, they're being discriminated on, and this would somehow correct some kind of injustice that is caused by circumstances that don't live in a place where they study. Thank you. I will withdraw these amendments in writing, because I see they have become problematic, so the ministry will see it as part of some possible future solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2776	Thank you. I find that the MP has announced a written withdrawal of the amendment to Article 5 that he has submitted. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2777	Just for a little while, I think we should know in this assembly that it's incorrect, Mr. Risticevic, to even the students from the interior with the disabled. I don't think that's right and that's incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2778	Does anyone want a replica? No, I don't. ) Would anyone else like to discuss the amendment to Article 5? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Ivan Karić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2779	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the beginning of just one little apology, at the speed of preparing the amendments, we, the administrative officer who did this for the Greens, were wrong. I apologize to everyone who is offended at this time, but so it's about students with disabilities, of course it's a mistake, students with special needs. We apologize to this occasion. This amendment speaks of ours, or almost all colleges being inadequately adapted to people with disabilities, especially students with disabilities. This trend is also present in public institutions and in public enterprises and in other institutions, which is why we wanted this part of the amendment, to say this part of the problem to be devoted to a more humane solution to these needs, to say for perhaps an extended deadline. It seems to me that dear colleague Mijatovic mentioned it in a positive context. That's how I realized it myself, and I agree that at least it's inappropriate to equate persons with disabilities and persons who have an opportunity to live in Belgrade, or somewhere inside. A mere misunderstanding, the chairman explained earlier that although the Committee on Constitutional Affairs rejected the amendment, then I ask the question why has my amendment not been discussed, about the Environment Fund? I didn't have a chance to explain my amendment, because the Constitutional Affairs Committee rejected it. Do colleagues in the position have a privileged position or is it a misreading of the chairmanship?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2780	I only remind you of the procedure. Therefore, any committee which examines any act in accordance with the procedure which has arrived at the Committee's session, by considering the act, whether it is comprehensive or amended, shall have the right to decide by voting on what is going to happen to the act or to the individual amendment, and the basis of which is either the amendment is contradictory, that it is not appropriate, that it is offensive, but as defined in the Rules of Procedure, or that it is not in accordance with the Constitution. National MPs of individual committee members shall declare whether such an amendment is rejected or not. If not for committee decisions to reject the amendment, the amendment must be searched. If the MP or the group withdraws it during the search, it will cease to be the subject of the search and, of course, it is not the day for the National Assembly to vote to decide. National MP Maja Gojkovic. The time at the disposal of the parliamentary group president is 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2781	Thank you. So I came forward because the MP group of NM, NP and BS wanted to submit an identical amendment to Article 5 of the Law in question and, of course, for purely technical reasons, we failed to achieve our right to do so. Of course, we will support the amendment of MP Ivan Karic in the voting day. Our remark was also on the very text of the amendment to the expression of people, i.e., students with special needs, that term is no longer used for several years, because these people, whether they are students or other categories, do not want their rights and their aspirations to be equal to us, to be called some special needs, because they are special needs in relation to other people and do not have. So, the real expression is actually – students with disabilities, and in this sense I do not understand the government's explanation whether the term is still being used – students for disability, because I think it is also the wrong formulation and that the government has also done in its explanation a little bit, and I am glad that MP Karic has orally explained it and corrected it. I was convinced that you as a minister, i.e. the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, would accept such an amendment and that this argument, which is slightly and easily given, would not appear here, is that a special concern about students with disabilities, to be realized through quotes of this sentence from an explanation – an affirmative action, carried out by the ministry in co-operation with the competent authorities regarding the enrollment of funding and the length of studies of those students. As a lawyer, and in all other MPs here know that, when something is not strictly defined by law, it is left at the discretion of the interpretation being conducted or not, so I can tell you that in many cases at university, at universities, that affirmative action with some competent authorities, as it is widely stated here, is not the right way to implement anything. It's much better when something in the law is strictly predetermined and then there's no interpretation of other organs, whether they're going to apply something or not. This amendment, in fact, although the one-year amendment seems to extend some right to two years, opens one big topic, the topic of the position of students with disabilities and their inclusion in higher education education. I sincerely hope that this topic will be discussed much more here in parliament, but much more attention will be given to the development of education, which, as I understand you and the members of Parliament who have discussed in this law in principle, will soon and before this home, so we will be able to discuss all those obstacles that young people with disabilities face in their desire to be part of higher education, i.e. to enable them to be educated at higher education institutions in Serbia. I would love to, so Ivan Karic, just didn't want to lobby for his amendment in a slightly wider way here, and I'm sorry that a little colleague is attending this part of the session right now, but when we think about this amendment, let's not look at it so hard and think about who makes this group of young people and with disabilities. I think our state is also a signator of the 2007 UN's Equality and Rights Convention, and I am convinced that we are also a signatories country. The definition of persons with disabilities who, of course, apply to students with such damages are persons who have long-term physical, mental and intellectual and damage to senses that encounter different obstacles, which prevent their full participation in society on an equal basis with others. When we say heard, let me tell you plastically, it's hearing, it's seeing, it's talking. And just to think about whether they're in an equal position under these amendments to the law with those students who don't have such obstacles to learning and mastering teaching. We should have talked about it in this sense, or we should have responded to the number of deadlines for this group of students, and whether they had a sufficient number of four deadlines, and in that sense, maybe we should all be much more active together. How many students is that? I don't have the exact number I came across, it's out of the total number of students 5% of young people, and it's not negligible. There is no negligible percentage of students with disabilities at all, and the obstacles they achieve to be almost equal with other students, so perhaps only in this short time should some be cited, it is certainly a need for assistance or assistance, during the day of transport to the college they decided on, which is one incomprehensible barrier for people who do not have these problems, architectural barriers. I get chills when I read that it's impossible to overcome architectural barriers, because our college institutions, I'm not talking about these newer ones in the last ten years that are citizens, that they have some special architectural importance or monuments of culture. Each and every one of us, I assume, was at least once in Greece or Italy and saw many people with disabilities visiting cultural monuments. So, it's only good enough if society wants it. What is most important for you, as a ministry and for all of us, to understand how important it is to adopt this amendment, is that young people with disabilities who have defined themselves as learning have a learning problem. Let me give you another plastic example, an example of people who are weak-sighted and blind. It's pretty close to me because of the dioptria I'm wearing, and I see a lot of Members of Parliament here have a problem with their eyesight, and they still have that problem that they can't and don't have adequate literature on the education system and at the colleges they chose. They're not the same as others, nature itself, so let's just say, make sure they're not the same, and we have to have that one width when we're passing laws. What's our obstacle when we talk about students with disabilities, it's our mental obstacle, because we often think – let's let them study, they'll never get a job. Such a society, at present, in the 21st century, must not think, but we should remove that mental obstacle from being very important to our society, simply to encourage them to enroll in colleges, to finish adequate schools, to doctorate and then to be involved in society and in some regular social flows. Unfortunately, in preparation for this session, I faced the question that people who intend to study at the University of Novosad, who have certain physical disadvantages, that they have disability, that's a lot of people and chronic diseases, so people who go to dialysis, that I don't go further into the medical side of these problems, ask if they can even study, and that's devastating. So I ask my colleagues from all parliamentary groups of opposition or those who make up the ruling majority, not to think about what the government has rejected or not rejected, perhaps too harshly than to adopt this amendment, Mr. Karic, as a gesture that as a parliament, we, too, do something for young people with disabilities who want to be part of our country's high education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2782	Ten minutes used by the time available to the president of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to Minister Zarko Obradovic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that the usual break during our working day will be given after the debate is concluded in detail, which is currently under way. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2783	I just wanted to thank you for these words dedicated to this category of students and to inform fellow MPs, including colleague Gojkovic that there is a part in the strategy called education and education of individual categories of students and students with parts of education and education of minority members, education and education of gifted and talented students, education and education of persons with disabilities and disabilities in development, persons with learning difficulties and persons from defamated groups. You have this strategy on our website, so you can get information. When it comes to this formulation that you mention in collaboration with the competent authorities, I want you to know that every year, together with the colleges, we write down a large number of students with disabilities and with certain difficulties which, unfortunately, they have and that we have great co-operation with colleges and that we have that problem in general that you can understand, that there should be a social committee that should assess which person it is, because sometimes by some students, unfortunately, there is an attempt to show that they belong to that category of students, and they do not. We tried, and we managed to get a large number of universities in Serbia to actually enroll a large number of students. I'll try for one of the next sessions, if there's any interest in you, and I'll find out the exact information. We invested funds in the renovation of the study home "Mika Mitrovic" here in Belgrade, just for students from that category. I have to tell you, it seems to me that they're satisfied with what we've been able to achieve right now, stone means we're done, because it's just one of the homes for those students. It would be logical for us at other university centers to do the same things and help them to overcome the learning process more quickly and easier, or not to feel, compared to their condition, different from the other students.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2784	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. The People's Parliament has four minutes at its disposal as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2785	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I listened carefully to Mr. Karic's discussion when it came to this bill in principle, and I understood this amendment very well. I can tell you that Mr. Karic has excavated members of the DSS. Good amendments are in my head and there is no need to put more effort into it. However, it is not enough that you lobby opposition MPs, you need to lobby MPs who support the government in order to adopt that amendment, so that what we say we will support is not enough. Otherwise, the amendment is very specific and suggests that students with disabilities retain the right to finance from the budget for the longest two years, and until the day of the regular duration of the studies expires. So it could simply be a motive more for a student with disabilities, who in the beginning has much more difficulty than a student who has no disability, to go into this adventure of study at all. So I guarantee that this would be a more motive for this student to be stimulated to start studying, so that he could be useful to his family as well as to society. You have given one general explanation for why this amendment is rejected. I believe in your word that colleges are making efforts, that they're looking at students' problems with disability, etc. You are now under the influence of these measures, which is very good, however, this is very specific, to call it the so-called affirmative measure. So, a student with a disability in general. I assume that no university has this measure and that the measure would not be a blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget, nor to the impact of any college. So this affirmative measure at this point doesn't have a single college. You were now saying, which is also very good, that a dorm is tailored to the needs of people with disabilities. I suppose all these construction barriers are solved, but it would be good if all the other dorms had solved the issue, perhaps not so completely, but it's just not good that only students with disabilities live in one home. That's not good. As a society, we should strive to have conditions in every home where students with disabilities and without. I guess it's a wish for all of us to have these people when they come to study not to be singled out. So I feel that they are now exposed to segregation, so to speak, to use a harsh word. It would be much more convenient to have students with disabilities in all homes, to be involved in student life realistically.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2786	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering. Time is available for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2787	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members, I am reporting to announce the position of the SDPS on this amendment. I announced that position yesterday on the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. It seemed to us that this amendment was reasonable, that it made sense, to take care of students with disabilities, however, during the discussion of the Committee on Education, we received a guarantee from the Ministry of Education, which is stated in the explanation, that there is some kind of good practice to take care of students with disabilities, so I find it difficult to imagine a situation for someone to come, for example, in a wheelchair in front of a counter and someone here was rude or in some way shortened his rights. If the SDPS, which this program issue is very important for, and I don't think there's any programming difference between Mr Karic's party, the Greens and the SDPS if we get the information that it really isn't the case that someone is discriminated against and that it's not allowed to exercise one of its rights simply because it has some disability or that it's not in any way made it easier for him to study. We would certainly settle in this column, which is for this to be explicitly legal, as counterpart Gojkovic said, to be regulated. So either way, what I am specifically exposed to and this colleague Banovic is that the money, which otherwise thinks very differently about many issues, is slowly moving towards some consensus on this issue. This is what is the source of some belief that sometimes in the future when we pass a system law on higher education it will allow all parties, regardless of whether the Greens are from some left, DSS from some right or party from the center, to regulate together without any ideological, any prejudices. Finally, I agree with my colleagues that perhaps this amendment needed a little more lobbying. I think in that sense his destiny might be better. Thank you for your attention and your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2788	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. The time at your disposal is 46 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2789	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, it was not the Greens' intention to rock the foundations of neither the law nor the strategy of higher education. A amendment like this can't even do that. Mrs. Banovic talked about it, Mrs. Gojkovic, too. If I may joke a little bit, thank you, Mr. Florist, I was just worried about how the Greens get along nicely with the conservatives in this assembly. I'm kidding, of course. We think this is an important topic. If we have to wait until there's an act of discrimination to respond to it, then we don't live in a free country. I'm not just talking about people with disabilities, I'm talking about minority rights and all the other minority rights, because we always have to react to what's going to happen. I believe that we live in a civil state where the law is usually just a historical story, and that civil law is the most impediment after all. I'm sorry, you've been asking from the beginning of the work of Parliament for nothing but faith in your word and nothing more. I really believe you, just like I tried to trust Mr. Dinkic, so it turns out I'm a little gullible. I warned him I was gullible. Please, don't let us take your word for it, convince us with evidence and stuff. What is this amendment destroying the spirit of the law, what is it plowing the foundations of the strategy? If you have any explanation other than what you're asking us to believe you're human. I know you personally, and I know that what you say is true, but let us introduce some of the principles of working into parliament. No more, if I may express myself jargonically, no more—my mother, and don't take my word for it. Either there's a law or it doesn't exist, or it exists on paper or it doesn't exist. Everything else, unfortunately, is for the jargon and for the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2790	Two minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2791	Mr. Karic, a colleague of Gojkovic asked if it existed in the strategy and I explained that there is nothing else, and I invite you – come to the Ministry, we will show you, document the number of requests for help to those persons and what we have done, so take out the conclusion that things are standing and invite you to visit the home of Mika Mitrović together, to see where these students live and what the conditions are and to hear what they think. So, no hearsay, but come and see.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2792	Thank you. National MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Ivan Karic and Donka Banovic were reported. That's where they get the word. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2793	I support Mr Karic's proposed amendment, and I am now pointing to article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not considered to be a discrimination against the special measure that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons, who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. I think it's a fundamental, unequal situation, and that's why I urge one more time to consider accepting this amendment, the truth with this correction that's a knock mistake. So it's about students with disabilities because surely that student who faces his disability means disability is essentially in an unequal position. And to that end, I believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, article 21, gives us the right to make one effort in this direction, especially when I see that most of the debaters who have appeared from different parliamentary groups, practically share the opinion that for such a group of people we should have a special understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2794	A minute and 30 seconds were used by the parliamentary group. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2795	Thank you. Dear Minister, what you have said is commendable and I believe it is happening, and I will be very happy to come. I say, we know each other personally and outside the congregation, and I have no reason to doubt everything you've said, but it's still not the answer to the essence of the amendment. So we're not asking for much, and we don't think anything special is green or anyone else's going to get it if this amendment goes through, now I'm only talking about political connotations, or position can lose anything if it supports the opposition amendment. If we agree more or less, that maybe this could be a good amendment, we're going back to the old one so that the position knows right and she doesn't need the opposition. I have an impression, and these two months have convinced me that it doesn't seem like it's going to be like that. Mr. Babic nod, I believe what I'm saying, and I've met him as one tolerated man. We had a small conflict, a professional conflict, but he assured me that he was extremely tolerated and I believe that in order to tolerate and with the idea, we really are building a human society based on laws and not on ordinary rights or some of the other rights that we inherited from the past. We can, or you can accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2796	A minute and 30 seconds were used by the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, one minute available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2797	The minister is in a position to explain, when he called for us to come and see how things work out well, how applications are coming in that he responds positively. That's the point. Why does he have to write a request for something? If this is in the law, then it's the law. It is prescribed by law, and every college or institution must respect it. Which is why someone would have to write or write an application and wonder if anyone would respond positively or negatively. Put this provision into law and there is no plea or refusal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2798	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2799	Thank you. I want to draw attention, because the minister went to a broad explanation in response to everything the MPs have said here. Everything we have stated in the defense of this amendment, I believe that the ministry of co-operation with the competent authorities, with universities, with colleges, is really doing a lot to improve the position of students with disabilities. It is very strictly required here to extend the right to budget funding from one year to two years. We did not get an answer here why it is an obstacle from the government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt such an amendment. I think you should adopt him and have time. If we're talking about money, and we're always saying that our obstacle is some kind of money, you know better data how many disabled students there are, it's 5% of my data, it's a much smaller percentage, let's say 1% that's going to use this right to be on the budget, not a year but two years after graduation. As for that, MP Cveticanin seems to have told me, because you are in the ruling majority, in executive power, etc. that you can't or can't, because this amendment won't rock the foundations of the ruling coalition, nor will adoption or your vote bring down this government. I just want to help you with that decision, that within the National Minority Group, the People's Party and Rich Serbia, there are MPs and there are parties that directly participate in the government. In the executive power they have their minister, and they will support this amendment with their vote, so that I help in your decision to be in the majority does not always blindly support everything the government says. I appeal that if there is still room, that the Government still adopts this amendment to vote and that this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill, and that we will not come into the situation to vote here, most or minorities, when they implement the spirit that everyone understands here how important this little concession is to enter as a legal norm into the law, rather than leave the colleges alone to assess whether anyone can use the right that allows it, possibly if we adopt this amendment or not. Whether someone is disabled or not, it still decides medicine.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2800	Three minutes and thirty seconds spent from the time of the president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ruzica Igic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2801	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Col. Ivan Jovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 6 in which he said, in Article 6(2), the word "five" is replaced by "six". In the explanation - the number of deadlines tested in the school 2013-2014 should be six, as this does not affect the reduction of quality and effective teaching process. I'm practically going back to that topic we had earlier in the discussion. In the government's explanation, the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that a gradual reduction in the number of test deadlines from six to four, starting in 2014-2015, was proposed in order to create conditions for higher education institutions to focus on providing and increasing the quality and efficiency of the teaching process. The topic of education is very current and of course we have heard very high-quality discussions today. The state has introduced a Bologna system. If you want to raise your criteria, you must take responsibility for your part of the obligation, Your Honors Minister. The number of test deadlines should not be reduced, and these days we have heard it from the student parliament's leadership. The Bologna system suggests that tests can also be passed through colloquiums and other pre-examination obligations. For now, it is being held, to my joy, in Novi Sad and on only two or three courses at every university of Belgrade University. When we start this issue, we need to consider some more old ones -- that students are learning from some colleges from out-of-date books, that it's a messy system of points, that we have a problem with both the professor's staff and that 10% of the objects where the passing is below 30%. I'm going to go a little bit off the topic, but it's very interesting, and I have to say, I'm going to use the time of my MP group, it's a good thing that the apartment was won by our athlete who won the gold medal at the Olympics, but it's not a good thing that one big success was achieved by a mathematician, pro-commented in the media in almost a few sentences. His name is Theodore von Burg and he's the best mathematician in the world. He won four gold medals. Shouldn't that boy get an apartment, too? One more thing to say, which is very important, which is that when I was studying the Faculty of Forests, the governments of Canada and Sweden were giving scholarships to our people, forest engineers, to work in these countries after the university. This refers to the quality of education that was in that period, which was from 1981 to 1985 or 1986. I think that level needs to be fixed. That there's politics in college, there's, like, a political choice of university rectors, yeah. That there are colleges in every village, which is also a big problem and that investing in science is a long-term process. If we invest in as many agencies as we have in Serbia, if we have unnecessary expenditures in public enterprises and institutions, then a good part should also be allocated to science. Finally, I will only say that I will support, except for this amendment by my colleague, and the previous amendment which practically deals with discrimination, and the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination says that although an act which does not prevent discrimination is the act of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2802	Four minutes has been used since the MPs' time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the parent committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2803	Of course, this amendment concerns the necessary points to obtain conditions for the student to receive funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have noticed a good will with representatives of all political parties that the topic that is on the agenda today is improving. However, we may naively think of all of us in the same direction as our common goal, but we haven't thought about whether it's money, whether it's the government's intention to reduce the number of students financed from the budget, in two ways. The first way is by reducing their number of test deadlines, although we all agree that not all previous conditions are met to do so and no one has anything against it, but with everything we've counted to be done. Secondly, to gradually increase the budget financing threshold and to pay both students and their families the price of these changes again. I'm saying, until the debate in the Assembly came to this stage, I thought we'd hear a concrete and good argument here that we, by abolishing two test deadlines, will improve the scientific and teaching process, etc. I think it just ended up in a phrase. Because of this and because of the general assessment, because I couldn't intervene with Article 88 of the basic text of the law, because it is not the subject of this amendment of the law, I tried to extend that deadline to four years, believing first of all in two things, that unfortunately neither the global economic crisis nor our crisis will surely end in the next three, four years, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I believe that everything that the higher education institutions haven't done with regard to meeting standards and facilitating the study process in the next four years will achieve. That's why I intervened the way I intervened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2804	It's been used 45 seconds since the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2805	As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I am absolutely in agreement with colleagues who, at today's session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, have found that the proposed amendment is absolutely contrary to Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where paragraph 3 is defined as prohibiting any discrimination, indirectly and directly. In addition, in the very technical writing of the amendments, it is practically possible that even students from Belgrade, who are studying in Novi Pazar or in Panchev or elsewhere, would be favored if they were to have their place outside the cities of the university's headquarters, with this being unlimited. In that sense, I do not believe that there is any reason why the MPs would in any way be in charge to accept an anti-constitutional provision, which would become an integral part of the very text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. In that sense, I think that if it is necessary to help all those who come from a place that is far outside the college's headquarters in another way, other provisions, in terms of regulation of the material status of those students, allowing them accommodation, allowing them certain means of nutrition and certain other things, but in no way regarding the quality of study and the results that a student needs to achieve, regardless of whether he is from a place where the college is based or from another place. So in that part, we can't make any difference between students. In that regard, I am of the opinion that this proposed amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2806	Two minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. MP Branislav Blazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2807	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mitrovica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and I suggest that four positions be added – 2, 3, 4 and 5. A second position – "High-school institutions that do not have enough students to complete an approved number of students whose studies are financed from the budget, are obliged to submit to the ministry a report on the reasons for such a situation within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, with a programme of measures to eliminate the reasons". Article 2 - "The higher education institutions of the previous position are obliged to submit every three months to the ministry a report on the implementation of the programme from the previous position. "Thirds – "To higher education institutions that do not deliver the report from Articles 2 and 3 of this article, or until the start of school 2012-2013, and do not remove identified shortcomings, the ministry will take away accreditation." Fourthly, "against the ministry's decision to withdraw accreditation, a 15-day appeal can be filed to the government." What is the point of this proposed amendment? We all know that seven years have passed since the law was passed, however, a number of colleges financed from the budget have not harmonised their study programmes, which is why the law must be re-changed. In the meantime, students suffer the consequences of such behaviour of these colleges, and colleges do not show the intention of programmes and conditions of studies harmonize and eliminate the problems that force us to change the law. So I suggest that these colleges now, these changes, undertake to present an immediate report on the reasons why they have not coordinated the programmes and removed the problems in the university's work. I find it quite justified that a university that is unable to comply with the law after eight years, is deprived of accreditation. If sanctions for violations of the law are not prescribed and applied, this state must prepare itself to re-change the law and adapt it to those who do not respect it, so the question arises – why would the other law respect it, or do we even need such a law? The question can also be asked – who needs a state that cannot enforce the laws it adopts? In response, I received that the ministry is not in charge of confiscation of accreditation. It's a famous thing, that's why I'm putting up with this amendment. There is no legal obstacle for some law to regulate that the ministry can confiscate accreditation in these cases and only in those cases. Otherwise, this law, and the minister says it's good, I agree with that, but if the law is good, then the ones who need to put it through and who don't. We have to change something, or the law, or the one that won't enforce the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2808	Fifty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2809	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, allow me to use a few minutes and give a few general notes regarding what we discussed today. We believe that a quality debate is being conducted, as we see it, that such a debate and a principled pawning of MPs for their amendments is purely one gain for education, for what was an attempt, in which we may have succeeded, some not, to improve the legal framework that treats higher education, this law. Of course, the debate was useful because it leaves the echo for some future time, because even today when we bring such changes and additions to the Law, they will not be for all time and in some future time, sooner or later, there will certainly be new changes. I would say that our Ministry of Education, headed by Minister Obradovic, reacted in good time to what was the need for the current amendments and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. It has responded to all the current issues, whether expressed as problems in the functioning of the higher education system, or as a need to conform to the European educational space, or as a tendency to integrate into the European system of education. So, the legal solutions that we are adopting today show the tendency to raise the efficiency and quality of education in higher education institutions, because it actually suggests colleges to a different system of work, which means the obligation of more consistent application of Bologna principles, which means continuous work with students, checking parts or individual continents, exercises, etc. So, the smaller number of test deadlines proposed by the proposer, we think it seriousises work and attitude towards obligations, both professors and students. The majority of test deadlines create complacency and one relaxation, perhaps even a presumption of campaign work. If the assumption would be that a number of test deadlines contribute to quality, then let's raise ten deadlines, so maybe they'll give some better results. I don't think so. We always have to lift the ladder up to get the whole process serious, as well as in sports. We can't bring down the scale and raise the scale and achieve a larger threshold that includes more work, more serious work, on the one hand the students, on the other hand the teachers who follow it and who help the students. Today, highly-ranked universities in the world have fewer deadlines tested, and if we are comfortable with the fact that the Belgrade University on that list is classy in some observed place, according to what the quality and success of the study is, then we certainly need to look at it in such a way that we have to raise the criteria, create new assumptions for quality work. The increase in the number of test deadlines certainly does not contribute to what should be more serious work, but above all, may contribute to improvisation in the implementation of the Bologna process. Of course, a good part of the students goes through this line of less resistance and we think that the law follows one vision, one philosophy, if you will, and one meaning to create assumptions, in this case, legal assumptions and a legal framework, of course, with the creation and other assumptions – educational, spatial, material, etc., to improve the process of education in higher education institutions. It's a very complex process. Of course, neither these legal provisions, which are here with a vision proposed, and with a deep sense of meaning, if we want to admit, if we think about it in such a way, will be enough in itself to achieve the expected effects. We must think in such a way that, as parliamentarians, and on the other hand, the law as one mechanism and instrument, would encourage a different relationship in the work of our higher education institutions. Of course, as always, the ministry will monitor the effects of this work and provide answers to the problems that will arise, as well as to monitor what is happening in a wider area, which is the European educational process. We are certainly obliged, and it is very important that we have covered these issues with this law and these issues, to be in progress and to be on the same wave, so to speak, with everything that happens in higher education in Europe, because simply if we don't have that hearing and we don't have that visor, then we are far from what we need to accomplish tomorrow in this area. So, of course, it was a pleasure to hear the opposition MPs who advocated their views, and that does not mean ignoring such attitudes, but it was simply necessary for us to deliver different opinions here and at this point have one result of such a debate, which will certainly achieve a positive framework in this area. We will certainly be ready, and we on our part, and certainly the Ministry, to re-enhancing the text of this law in the coming time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2810	Eight minutes and fifty-five seconds of the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2811	Thank you, this until four o'clock until the other colleagues arrive and we go to questions and answers. I'm kidding. On this sentence, I was offered a good atmosphere that exists in the National Assembly, and I want to thank all of you who are here for what you said. It is indisputable that there is not only interest in this subject but also knowledge that has been shown during the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, i.e. on concrete amendments. Somewhere in the course of that debate, we may have gone beyond what was and what was the content of this law, so I'd just like to remind myself. The first thing that matters most to students is that we adopt this law tonight so that we can enter a new school year, because unless we adopt the number of points needed for the condition for many will be a dream. That's the thing you all have to think about. Respecting all the good wishes that have been heard, it must be admitted that it is a process, whether it is someone or not, in which the ministry participates with others, and the others are: higher education institutions, professors, students. The process of improving the quality of higher education in Serbia cannot be completed alone, we can initiate it, and from the higher education institutions themselves, and from what will happen in colleges, much depends on it. I don't know if you noticed earlier, a colleague from Novi Sad said in his best interest – we've reformed our programs, we're doing great. While not with a colleague from Belgrade, but when you look at the Shanghai list, she says something else. The criteria on which universities are compared are different from what the colleague said. I mention this for the simple reason that there have been many arguments that are in favor of either one or another thesis. If you look back at what is the subject of the law, we've tried to find solutions that are important for higher education at this point and that together with higher education institutions, there's agreement for all of us that these are the changes that are needed, we open the door for a new step. There's something else I want to say about the availability of education. It is often ignored that the choice of college is an act of personal choice for each individual and that each one of us, or these young people, who choose the university, decides which college they choose. Often, when they ask me what to enroll, I say they enroll in that college that they love, because what they love best is best studied. Again, I add that sentence – if you want to find a job easier, because it is now in Serbia, the chances are more likely if you graduate from the Faculty of Natural Sciences compared to social sciences. The fact is, in fact, if you choose a college of natural sciences, you can end up at the expense of state and basics, and master, and doctoral studies. That's no problem at all. However, there is also a question of the individual's personal choice, which after more or less breaks to the state of higher education. Again, unfortunately, there was little to hear here about the essence of learning, the process of learning. He has to learn to finish college, as professors have to change, students have to change. It seems to me that Col. Comic mentioned that if we all want to give education the importance it deserves, we don't just need to talk, we need to change. You will say, "Let the government do it." Okay, that's right. The government is someone who exercises executive power and is the government's greatest responsibility, but we all participate more or less in the process, and those who are in power, and who are in opposition, depending on how they talk and how they behave. It makes me 53.7%, I used that data yesterday, students of all state colleges studying about the cost of the state. You'll admit, 53 and a few thousand students, as far as it was according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute in 2010. For this Serbia, 53.7%, in this economic situation, is something worth respect. Of course we'd like it to be more, but we're asking questions and possibilities. We'll try to change our funding mode to increase the coverage. It's just one dimension of what the state wants. We want to apply this strategy for the coming years and not only to be a question – whether there is enough money, but also a question of changing the situation within the higher education institutions themselves, both with professors and students. I stress consciously - both with the professor and with the students. To avoid these situations you were talking about, about what happened. narrow throats, because when you look at universities in Serbia, there are such cases, but a little relative to a far greater number of those good cases that exist in colleges. It takes this two-sided relationship. The professor can be fantastic, that he gives excellent lectures, that he points students to all of those elements that were carried out during the teaching process, but if he doesn't have a student who wants to learn, there's no result. It's not easy to achieve each other at all. I want to tell you this, I think there's been too much talk about State interference. The structure of the higher education system is defined so that there is a body chosen by this assembly, which is called the National Council for Higher Education, which has its own working body – the Accreditation Commission. She's checking the quality. Be careful, the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission. This quality check stays in the second plan and it now moves into the second cycle of accreditation and quality checks. It is something that is part of the higher education system and other European countries. If there are problems, and there are problems in certain environments, we're absolutely here to react, but we can't do it ourselves. Yesterday, my colleague Atlagic pointed out the situation at the Faculty of Philosophy in Kosovo Mitrovica, because the situation is such that it should be reacted. Unfortunately, we can only act as it suits the ministry, in accordance with the law, and only when the Educational Inspectorate determines the actual state of affairs. I expect that we will do so during the day, because it seems to me that a fellow from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has raised the issue. When the Educational Inspectorate determines the facts, I expect in the course of tomorrow, of course, I will respond to that. In addition to the National Council, the Accreditation Commission, higher education institutions are completely autonomous and should be absolutely highlighted. The universities themselves have a lot to do, that it doesn't happen as it happens at the University Council level, to make one decision, and colleges do everything else. If it starts to react to the state, if it means the ministry, you'll all say the same thing – well, it can't, where is autonomy? You will. Whether you nod your head or not, you'll all say – sorry, they're completely autonomous, they need to solve it. When we ask them to solve it, they say, "Here you go, we know the right thing to do." It's our reality. Of course, the situation in individual colleges, which are also completely autonomous, and when they bring in the program, and when they teach, and when textbooks are made, and when students are graded, they are only not autonomous when the problem arises, then the problem shifts to the university or towards us. About student organizations, these student organizations that exist now are completely legitimate. Who thinks he is disputing their legitimacy, let him turn to them and ask them how they are chosen and whom they represent? When we pass a law on the organisation of students, conditions will be put in place again for the new participation of students, and someone will be re-elected, and someone will still be challenged, as in the police, anyway. Unfortunately, I mention it as in the police because you always have a situation, and that's right, it's not at all controversial, but we don't have an organization in the ministry, students have an organization. Colleges are autonomous, universities are autonomous, we listen to their voice, and I think it's a good thing we're talking together and trying to meet their demands. We don't see our role in any other way, but to follow the Academian community and give them suggestions, because every other kind of intervention would be otherwise experienced and otherwise placed. You've seen here, if we've missed in previous debates and the adoption of the law that, in the context of the National High Education Council's affairs, we don't make it an obligation to establish a national qualification framework, now that it exists, we're going to get it now, since it's already over. Now we're gonna talk about strategy, and we're gonna do other things together. Maybe these measures don't score, and we're ready to talk about it. Why wouldn't he? The academic community assured us that with these things going on, we could move even better forward. But if it doesn't, we'll talk about why it's not, where it's not and who it's for. Be careful, when a narrow throat occurs, the problem is right. There are ways and normative solutions within the university and university that these problems can be solved. The second thing is whether there is a willingness of the academic community of the institution to resolve it. There's a college where everyone's having a dean election and one dean won't. Look out, he won't! If you look at me astoundingly and ask, how will they not, and, of course, we perform. According to the title he has and the knowledge he owns as an expression of that title, he would expect to call elections for the dean's election, whoever is elected, but he won't. Then the state must perform. Regarding these amendments, the Assembly will vote on them today and I would just like to mention that it may not have been seen enough that we are extending another year of funding to these students who fail to obtain a certain number of points. So we've been extending for a year, including students with disabilities, and they're also involved, so you don't get the impression that they're not included in that number of students, of course, if they meet the conditions. At the very end, there's something else I want to say. The following school years, the years of school and calendar differences, school years 2012-2013, the number of deadlines is six, the school year 2013-2014 is five, and since the school year 2014-2015 the number of deadlines should be four. Next year with six deadlines will be 50 points, so we'll see who did the job and within those higher education institutions. When I say, what's who, I mean both professors and students. Of course, we remain to create the conditions that what we think is what is in our opinion and what is a positive assessment by the rectors of all universities is a greater shift forward in higher education, that this process continues, and that the state creates conditions, not only through personal incomes, but through the creation of conditions for teaching, the acquisition of equipment, opportunities for scientific and research work, the acquisition of calling and all the other things that are part of higher education. In any case, our conversation will not end on this subject today. I expect we'll be here again in October, but then with the theme of the education strategy at all levels, and then we'll talk on the parent board and we'll go public reading. For those of you who are here, I know you will come, but we will invite all other MPs to join us, that they too take part in the topic - what kind of education does Serbia need for a decade ahead of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2812	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on the agenda points of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, September 27th, 2012, starting at 19.10pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. In accordance with Articles 87 and 205, I set a break of up to 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2813	Dear People's MPs, since today's last Thursday of the month is in accordance with Article 205(1). We approach the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to ask parliamentary questions in time from 16:00 to 1900 hours. I was informed by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the next members of the government are unable to attend today's session in which parliamentary issues are being asked. Aleksandar Vukic, first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Jovan Krkobibic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister and Sulejman Ugljanin, minister without portfolio. Before we start asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that apply to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The Government's oral question, namely the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If some preparation is needed to respond, they must explain it. The reply shall be sent to the Members of Parliament in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the MP's question, which has asked the question, have the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to their question, or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response within a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and giving answers, thus not allowing replication and reference to the injury of the Businessmen. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, firstly by giving word to the MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs and then to the MPs of the least according to the largest group of MPs. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first person to speak was MP Nikola Tulimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2814	Thank you. I will refer questions to the entire government, and if the examples that I will provide relate well to energy, i.e. The Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection and Health. But the examples are really just examples, they can concern any area, and that's why it would be good to know the government's position on these issues. Namely, it's about the next one. In public lately, a lot has been said about some phenomena that may be dangerous to human health. In particular, I'm going to list some of the topics that are interesting here. One of the interesting projects people are talking about is "hard project", where it's said especially in the daily "Justice", I noticed that this is talked about, about certain locations in Barajev, I think. I also listened to some allegations about the use of genetically modified organisms as seeds in Serbia. And a number of such topics seem to me, at least, to me, that the government in Serbia today has to process, investigate and put in front of the public serious reports that are prescribed some form. The reason it seems the media can't do it, they don't have the capacity to do it. Also, in addition to answering the question, are we going to have to deal with government issues like that. I would like to hear the government's position on co-operation with the MPs, because here in an informal conversation, I have just learned that the letters I sent to both the prime minister and the president of the Assembly have not arrived, and I am sure that there is no bad intention. And that's why I'd like to know if you're going to predict any solutions, so that we MPs can talk to you more easily and that wherever we want and we can help you in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2815	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2816	About your question, in fact, more of your questions. What is the position of this government, I would say first and foremost the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, is that human health and environmental protection are imperatives of the government's work. Not just about that project you mentioned. So, we're going to deliver everything that we as a ministry have, but also for all the other things that can be read from the media recently. So, what is harmful to the citizens of Serbia, we will simply not only ban it, but we will not do it. That's what the government's position is, as well as the Prime Minister's.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2817	Thank you. National MP Nikola Tulimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2818	Thank you for answering, I'm glad to hear that, and I'd just like to comment on it the following way. What's heard in the media is creating great and fear and attention, and it happens in some sheets when we see an image from Alaska, that it discredits the subject just because it's unseriously processed. What's the key to my question is, in fact, it seems to me that you've said that you're going to approach it that way, that you're going to take it seriously, and that the serious reports are later on if you need to be criticised or confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2819	Thank you. Certainly and on the matter of communication between the president of the National Assembly and the members of the Government, regardless of whether we have not noticed now, or not for any reason, free of all that you have, through the office, is automatically referred to everyone you have directed to and believe that the services are doing so for the time being very pedantic. The next word is for Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2820	Thank you. Dear President, the Prime Minister, on behalf of the LSV parliamentary group, I would ask primarily Minister Rasim Ljajic, Foreign Trade and Telecommunications Minister, but since he is not present, another minister can answer me. My question concerns the regulation made by the government on 6 September of this year and concerns the ban on exports of sugar beet, soybeans and sunflowers, as well as the decision on the exchange of artificial fertilisers for mercatative wheat and maize from commodity reserves. As explained in this decision, the Government has made the aim of ensuring the supply of the market for edible oil and sugar and for food products to be made available to consumers. Farmers apparently warned in vain that in the event of a ban only large agrarian companies would win and that the state had freed contracts on the sale of sunflowers and soybean to foreign customers only large traders, because the current conditions do not suit them. Paori wonders why exports of industrial plants are banned, if the aim is to protect citizens' standards. Poor citizens do not eat either sugar tail or soy, nor sunflower and will not benefit from this Regulation. Exports of sugar, oil and soybean products are not prohibited, and the export of raw materials is prohibited which will not raise the ransom price. My question concerns this, I ask the Minister to answer me, first since when does the Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications deal with agriculture? So whose idea was it to ban the export of soybeans, sugar tails and sunflowers, and to export oil and sugar? Also, I would ask why everything went against the head again and the duchess of the Duke who is in the Republic of Serbia who must again bear the burden of drought and its consequences on his back. Will Minister Ljajic, for example, ban the fiat if it is too expensive? The second question concerns education. In fact, I'd like to ask Minister Zarko Obradovic, what's going on with the low-priced textbooks? Since it is evident that about 50% of the textbooks that are low circulation this year have not been issued, and we know that they are textbooks of national communities, that they are textbooks for disabled children, for lack of vision, for deafness, etc. I will give an example relating to my national community, for example for Russian schools it was intended to print 34 textbooks, and it was printed nine, there is a printing of seven, and there will be no 18 textbooks at all. It has also been recorded that 70 children attend the preschool prep programme, and there are only 25 textbooks in supplies. So I'm asking Minister Obradovic to answer me what's going to happen to the low-priced textbooks this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2821	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2822	I'll try to answer on behalf of Minister Ljajic. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia, as this is constantly going through the media that this measure has been taken to favour a group or some individuals, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not taking care of the interests of individual groups or individuals, but is solely working in the interests of citizens. This measure was introduced by the Department of Trade, as it is in her jurisdiction. In fact, it is prohibited to export sunflowers, soybeans and sugar tails until 31.12.2012. The first reason is a catastrophic drought that we've already talked about several times, where sugar tails are reduced by about 30%, sunflowers by 20% and soy by 30%. We felt that this measure of banning exports would ensure a higher level of use of processing capacity. After that, when these facilities work, we will also ensure regular supply of our market to these products, because they have obviously become deficient. For domestic purposes, when asked about sugar, it takes about 200,000 tonnes of sugar and we have an export quota to the EU of 180,000 tonnes of sugar. With this sugar beet production this year, especially if free sugar beet exports were allowed, we would not be able to fulfil either task, meet the needs of the domestic market, or provide an export quota. As you know, we've been looking for an increase in that export quota and it would be, I say, a little funny of us to ask for an increase in that quota without having managed to export certain amounts of sugar this year. My answer is yes, first of all we looked at the citizens' interest and these measures were short-lived. I know they're not popular, but at this point they were inevitable.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2823	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2824	Thank you. I'm gonna have to check those records you listed. So far, low-cost textbooks have been published by the Bureau for publishing textbooks, and I don't really know what happened, because other publishers, with rare exceptions, have not participated in the printing and publishing of low-priced textbooks for members of individual minority communities, because it was about, to say, a modest circulation, so it was obviously not an appropriate economic benefit for them. Let me get the information you brought out to check and see what the reason is. Anyway, we won't let the textbooks show up with the students. If it's money, we've provided funds for the release of free textbooks. If there are other reasons, then I need to see what that reason is and to remove the possible cause why the textbooks didn't show up in class.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2825	Thank you. Next for the word reported, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2826	Today in the morning part of the session, I asked the question of the Minister of Culture, not knowing that you would be present in this part, and the President of Parliament gave me instructions to set it orally, so if it is really necessary, I would briefly repeat it. So, I'm interested in what the ministry has done in adopting, that is, the completion of, Serbia's cultural development strategy, and have you taken any steps to coordinate between the National Council on Culture, which was established under the adopted Cultural Law, and what coordination have you made with our Parliament? Namely, to repeat to colleagues who have not been here in the afternoon, but also to those who may not have received a letter from the National Council for Culture, they have sent their report to all MPs in this assembly, in which they are complaining of working conditions, and are also complaining about the lack of coordination between the former ministry at all, and I am interested in whether this has been fixed, and in coordination with the Serbian Parliament? Unfortunately, we still don't have a committee on culture, but I'm guessing that doesn't stop the ministry whose head you're headed from working very hard on the culture development strategy. It is a very important act, your ministry, a ministry that belongs to a group of identity ministries and every day that we lose, and that the act does not appear before us, that parliament also debates and adopts, is lost to Serbia, because adoption is indeed of invaluable importance to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2827	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2828	The strategy has been working since the first moment we entered the ministry. We've already had, as far as the National Cultural Council is concerned, we've had several meetings with him. They really complain that they have no working conditions, and we will allow them in the ministry itself, negotiations are under way with them. We had, I say, a series of meetings and I personally and my associates with the National Cultural Council, so it will be settled in the coming weeks. They also complained that they had no adequate compensation, although it was all voluntary. The ones in the previous period very rarely met, and I also have to say, that they met maybe two or three times in full composition, even rarely when they had a quorum, but we're going to make sure that these meetings, at some even weekly level, are scheduled to go. We've also made conditions in the Ministry's department regarding the joke, the shooting. They demanded that all meetings be recorded both by tone and camera, so we'll make it possible. Otherwise, the National Council will remain in the same composition as it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2829	The word is Maja Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2830	The second part of the question has not been answered, so when is the culture development strategy planned to end and when will it appear before parliament, or in a public debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2831	Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2832	The strategy will be completed, surely by the end of the year and we will have valuable assistance from the National Council for Culture, it has already been agreed with them, so by the end of the year we will be safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2833	Thank you. Next, MP Aleksandar Jugovic reported for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2834	Respected Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected president, colleagues, in the past meeting, SRS chief Dragan Todorovic asked whether it was true that Serbia's tycoons, the richest people owe on the basis of taxes and contributions somewhere around five billion euros? I hope that after this question, I will not pass as Dragan Todorovic, so I too will be without a parliamentary mandate. But that's what the "Nin" newspaper says, the source is "B 92" and it's a lot of sites. I have already asked Mr Dinkic, Minister of Finance, in the budget rebalance debate, if that's true. I asked him for many reasons. If so, I'm surprised that these people who are debtors don't file charges against those houses they fakely write about their wealth and their obligations to the state. If it is, then I wonder why the state is in debt, which is why loans are taken, which is why public enterprises are sold if the taxpayers in Serbia can settle all the needs of the state, so that the state does not collapse economically? The second question concerns this, and it is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, which I have no doubt when it comes to good intentions. A question has been raised about the future and not about the past, as in all campaigns the political party advocates the rebirth of villages as the only way for the rebirth of the state, economically, biologically, spiritually, each other. When are we going to pass the agricultural law, when are we going to bring in a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture? Five hundred thousand people in ten years have disappeared in Serbia, sat empty, Belgrade is filling up. The only way to stop Serbia's biological death is to invest in agriculture, invest in peasants, invest in the village. I think these are the only investments that provide new jobs. All honours to the Fiat, of course, should have that, but until the Serb village comes to life, Serbia will not bring it back to life, and that is absolutely clear to all. Somehow right after the election campaign, you forget about the peasants. In the election campaign, politicians are able to buy both livestock and cattle to farmers, farmers, to get votes, and as soon as the elections are over, everyone forgets about them. (President: Pay attention on time.) You've got three and a half minutes. Then I'll continue on the additional issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2835	All right. Will any of the members of the government respond? Yeah. He's got a word, Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2836	If what you're saying were true, it would be easy for us, because it would be easy to charge. They're not exactly the data you're saying someone published. I didn't notice that. But we publish data on the biggest debtors on the tax administration website. This started in the previous period, and this practice will continue. Anyone who wants can see what the biggest taxpayers in Serbia are. For example, the biggest debtor is one of the phantom companies that was in bankruptcy and was involved in the traffic of oil derivatives. There are several such in the area of oil derivatives that have hidden large amounts of VAT in the previous period and have obviously gone into fictitious bankruptcy. So this is all about the previous period. We're not talking about companies that went bankrupt in the period since the formation of the new government. They're on the list of biggest debtors. That's why we're looking for opportunities to close down this way, because apparently there's an abuse in the traffic of oil derivatives. In the next period, we'll try to close that system. As for rich people in Serbia and those who have not reported their assets and their wealth, I must say that in the next month, in October, we will announce an invitation to the citizens of Serbia for a certain asset force, we are still in the process of defining the criteria, to report all of their mobile and immovable assets, i.e. immovable plus immobilised beyond some value, cash held in the house, deposits in banks, and since the new year we are starting cross-checking of property revenues. That way, we'll see if those who have big villas, buildings have reported the tax neatly. If they report taxes and pay them properly, then it's perfectly fine and in accordance with our regulations. Or, eventually, there is some discrepancy, where the start of cross-examination will start from the new year, but it will not end, given that it is a lasting process. I can only say that the last time the application was made was in 2004, so there's a database from that period. We'll be able to compare with 2012 and then follow up on the income situation of the assets in the next period. I have also hired former director of the Tax Administration of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Simic, to prepare appropriate procedures together with the Tax Administration of Serbia, and we will do the same thing in other European countries. In this way we want to modernise both the Tax Administration and introduce order in paying taxes. This will not be an obligation for citizens who have modest incomes, we will not ask them for any census but we will only give a censorship over which those who have higher incomes and more property will be obliged to report it. In this process, we will then determine who is the orderly tax payer, who is not. Because it is not enough just to control the charged general tax revenues, VAT, customs, income tax, excise duties, it is also necessary to see whether there are some black sources of income for individuals and if there are, in an adequate way to tax, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to report to other competent authorities if there are revenues from criminal activity. But then it's not a job for the IRS, it's a job for the police and the D.A.'s office. In any case, the aim of the Ministry of Finance, the economy and the government is to bring order into the area. But on the current lists of Serbia's biggest debtors, there are probably no names you're talking about, so I don't think that information is correct. Because if we owed five billion euros for unpaid taxes, we would know for sure and go and collect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2837	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2838	I don't know how, maybe my questions are complicated, so it takes two ministers to answer. I would like to ask a few more questions for the Ministry of Agriculture, and after that, Mr. Knezevic would like to ask the already started question, which I would like to conclude with some more questions, to answer. It is therefore necessary to create an environment for the financing of livestock production. We know what's waiting for us next year. These are not the questions of MPs Aleksandr Jugovic, these are the issues of all people who are in the country, these are the issues of all those who are trying to solve their existential problems, which should be the engine of Serbia's economic recovery. We now mostly have in the country, these are the data that are official, to raise goats and sheep, no more livestock, no more pig growing, no more mass-loading, and that is an indication that our population in the country is extremely old. We've had Velykov's final discharge. We didn't bring any strategy. Imagine the position of a woman in the country? Think about it. She has no conditions for any medical care. There are no conditions for leaving his child in kindergarten if he wants to work, and we know that the country's landowners are based solely on their own workforce. She doesn't have the conditions for quality schooling her child. Let's look at the example of Slovenia. If the minister would have listened, I think it would have been good, because it was a country that was only two decades ago in the same big country that Serbia was in, which is now, as far as agricultural production is concerned, far ahead of Serbia, and that was not so 20 years ago. They stimulate a teacher who works in a remoter village or a village from Ljubljana than he who works in a suburban village. So, there's more income. There are bigger subsidies per hectare if it's a more remote settlement. It all seems that the conditions of life in the country are equal in terms of living in the city. What's the consequence? That every year Maribor and Ljubljana are reduced by the number of inhabitants. Can Serbia move with those rates, to disband Belgrade, to try to return the host to the country's place in Serbia that belongs to him? It is a matter of all issues, a priority of all priorities, because if we want to have a healthy state, and we know what the only energy in the future will be worth. We have them and we must strengthen the asphalt network and all that is needed for the village to live again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2839	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2840	There are a lot of questions and I don't know how long the answer will take, but let me try to answer some of your questions. First, you must respect the fact that I've only been at the head of this ministry for 60 days, you respect the fact that everything that's happened these days, first of all, this disastrous drought, then many outstanding obligations within the Ministry itself. As you know, even the milk premiums for the first quarter of this year have not been paid by September of the month and many, many more things. This budget rebalance, as the finance minister said, was extorted. It's a ceasefire, and we're just running our policies in some future period, primarily a bigger budget for 2013, will show the government's true intentions. As for the law, we will in November and December of the month, we already have, practically, a lot of laws in the field of agriculture, some changes, some additions, but a whole new law, which in a completely new way will regulate certain things in the agrarian. It is a law on incentives in agriculture that will create one recognizable environment for agricultural producers who will be able to plan their production. As part of that, of course, all these subsidies that you've been talking about will be, especially in the livestock sector. For your information, we will, at the next session of the government, also bring the other regulations that were intended to be passed after the budget rebalance, which concerns the recovery of the effects of droughts, four of which are dedicated to cattle farming, where the amount of subsidies is increased by 100%. In the agreement, most likely, with the Ministry of Finance, if possible, we will keep those subsidies in the next period, so that exactly the livestock production will be one of the objectives of our thinking. As I said, the first results will only be seen with the 2013 budget and then you will see the real intentions, and by then you have said the issue of strategy, the prime minister has also set up the National Council for Agriculture, so they are also in charge of working on a part of the strategy and I think we will have that document soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2841	Thank you. Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2842	How much time do I have on the Rules of Procedure now? Well, since I'm late for the session, I can use that delay time, like 15, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2843	You can take two minutes. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2844	Of course. I am satisfied with the answers, provided they are also the obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture. I took into account the minister's duties, relatively soon. I took into account the fact that insight into the very problem of functioning agricultural production in Serbia requires systematicity, I suppose he knows how much, I'm convinced, is now a peasant. We know that the price of oil derivatives, primarily elevators, was three times lower a few years ago, and that the price of milk is almost the same in terms of time and present time. We know that it is necessary to stimulate agricultural production through loans, but not by loans that will choke whoever takes credit, especially peasants, but by loans that will have a grace period and whose interest will be extremely low. I hope that we will be more ready to enter next year, and if you have all these measures, which you have promised publicly, taken, you will have support in everything you do and what is good. What was bad will come under the criticism of SPO MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2845	Thank you. Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2846	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to ask a few questions to Prime Minister Dacic and Minister Selakovic about the so-called. petty thefts. It's a criminal act in Article 210. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia – if the value of the stolen property is less than 15,000 dinars, and the unsub went after it to obtain a small property benefit, the prosecution is taken on private charges. Do you know, gentlemen, how much of a problem in all of Serbia is this regulation, do you know how revolutionary the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are, do you know that in the villages of Vojvodina and not only in the villages and not only in Vojvodina, but in the entire Republic of Serbia, it is stolen every day? Do you know that food is being stolen from the fridge, do you know that ham is being stolen from the attic, do you know that everything that can be taken away is being stolen, and the state has been watching it backwards for years? Do you know that in the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the purpose of the existence of the state is at stake? Not the states of Serbia, but the states as institutions, because citizens say – what will the state do if it cannot protect our private property? Do you know that citizens are organized to protect their property and that it is extremely dangerous? Do you know that civil guards are being organised for condemning SVM from the outset and condemning today, because we believe that the state through its authorities should protect the private property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Do you consider it normal, Mr Selakovic, that this limit of 15,000 dinars, when we know that there are currently 505,000 pensioners in the state with incomes below 15,000 dinars, is it okay that the limit of 15,000 dinars, when according to official data from April, is unemployment more than 25%? At present, we have millions of citizens with incomes below 15,000 dinars, and the state allows it to be stolen freely, practically because of 15,000 dinars, because no one is going after the perpetrators in a private lawsuit, because it's not worth it to the citizens, and the police can't do anything about it because there's no private lawsuit. What I'm saying is that we've proposed in the last session to change the Criminal Code, to cut that limit drastically to three or five thousand dinars. That's what the police union supported us with. I expect your answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2847	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2848	Thank you, fellow Pastor, for this matter, and I can truly say that as part of the new activities of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, it began work three weeks ago, a task force dealing with the issue of amendments and addition of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that this issue is also on the agenda in that whole set of provisions that need to be amended or complemented, and that we also know that the problem faced by law enforcement is, first of all, citizens who cannot protect their right of property, as one of the fundamental rights. Be assured that by 15 October, you will receive the first working text of our working group at the Justice Ministry site. At the head of the task force is respected Professor Zoran Stojanovic, the biggest criminal law expert among university professors in Serbia, a material criminal law, and that the working group will certainly put forward a proposal, or draft, to resolve this important issue. Do I think that limit is normal? In our living circumstances and with this standard of living of the citizens of Serbia, it certainly is not normal, and that is the basic reason why we will approach amendments to that provision of Article 210. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2849	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2850	I would like to thank Minister Selakovic for his reply and we would like to contribute to resolving this issue and therefore I would like to make a few suggestions, when these working groups are working and working. We don't think this can be solved exclusively by amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. This is certainly a necessary reduction in that limit, a drastic reduction, is certainly the most important element of the solution, but we also think that you should definitely work to amend the Law on Headquarterss and District Courts and Public Prosecutors. We feel it is not normal and therefore we voted against this proposal in 2008, for example. There's a hole in Vojvodina. Such holes are also on a map of Serbia, in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. You in Vojvodina, for example. You have the basic court in Subotica, you also have the basic court in Novi Sad, Sombor and Kikinda, and in the middle of the map you have a hole of hundreds of kilometers. I think this is to a very small extent to contribute to this number of so-called. petty thefts. I say so-called because for citizens, of course, they're not petty thefts. The additional question would be – how many basic courts do the Ministry of Justice think it should be returned to the justice system of the Republic of Serbia? What we think, compared to Vojvodina, is that a minimum court should be returned to Backo Topol, St. and Vienna. This would greatly contribute to solving and dealing with petty theft and all other problems. In addition, we feel it is necessary to amend the Community Police Act. It is necessary to extend the responsibilities of the municipal police and to allow municipalities to form the municipal police. We think this would also help improve the security situation on the ground. In addition to this, what many EU countries have introduced zero tolerance for theft, of course, I know that there can be no charge of theft worth 10 dinars, but we believe that all perpetrators should be prosecuted below, for example, the value of 3,000 dinars infraction. I know that currently the Republic of Serbia does not have a material violation law, but we think that, within these measures, we should find a solution for this problem and we think that all perpetrators should be prosecuted by official duty, depending on the limit or criminal or criminally.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2851	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2852	Thank you for your questions. Your first question referred to the Law on the Seats of Courts, i.e. amending and supplementing that law. Thank you for that question, because it is one of the most neural, best points of the Serbian judiciary. So, with 138, we've burned to 35 barrels. We've left many districts administratively with only one basic court, which is absolutely inadmissible. You mentioned the situation in Buck. You have a similar situation in Srem. We only have dishes in Sremska Mitrovica. You have cities and municipalities that have over 80,000 residents who have lost any court. Here, I'll mention Old Paz, who has a very lively, small and medium-sized economy. So, what all governments in the previous period, from some decades and more advocate to strengthen it, then leave such a scam without a court, completely inappropriate. You asked me which courts would be returned. I just got off the phone with members of that task force today. The task they have received is one of the most priority tasks at the moment, because without these amendments and additions to the Court's Headquarters Act, we cannot carry out a good reintegration of unselected judges and prosecutors. Of course, I can say freely, what's my personal opinion, is that, for example, there's a complete justification for the return of the basic court to Saint, because it's unacceptable that we only have a court in Subotica, that we have a large number of municipalities. There's a solution up there that's been living for the first year, for judges to be in those judicial units, but simply, it turned out to be illogical. The question raised by this existing bad and inefficient network of courts, i.e. the question and costs incurred by the team. It is not only the costs of the state that should be taken into account, but rather the costs faced by citizens, which are huge costs. I certainly support your initiative to review the existing judicial network, to work very hard and valuable, that you will also have half of October published a working text on where you should see that group of experts working in the Justice Department working group return the basic courts. As for the Law on Infringements, the previous ministry has launched work to draft the law. As far as I know, this week, right now in Vrsac, the work group is finishing and we will have a proposal for that law on violations as soon as possible. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2853	Thank you. Mr. Pastor has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2854	I thank you for your answers. It's a good thing we're doing this fast to solve these very difficult problems. You made a lapus. Unfortunately, there are no 35 basic courts, but only 34 currently in the Republic of Serbia. At 138, we fell to 34 basic courts. I'd like to appeal to you to think about it next to Sainte. I know you're not the only one who makes the decision, but the task force is preparing a work version. But regardless, I want to draw your attention here in this place to the situation in Vienna and Backo Topoli. In 2008, we also said that this kind of network is a problem because it does not care about the ethnic composition of the population of these municipalities and these cities. In addition, a large number of multilingual procedures were not taken into account. On the third hand, there was no concern about the tradition of the judiciary in those municipalities. In these municipalities and cities courts there are 150, 200 years back, no matter what state these municipalities and these cities belong to. This situation isn't just in Vojvodina. That's the way it is in central or, more correctly, in Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to include us in this work on time. It would be good if we were given a chance to make an argument, which is why we believe that at least these municipalities should be returned to the basic courts and not put ourselves in a position to discuss this for the first time when the draft law on amendments and additions comes to the National Assembly. We are in the interest of citizens open to co-operation, as far as these issues are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2855	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2856	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I would like to ask you, Mr Dacic. You're being bypassed by my colleagues, as if they don't see you as Prime Minister. Last time I asked you -- what is your government's goal, since you and your cabinet and the ruling coalition ran a policy that directly denied everything you announced in your exposé? For you it was a rhetorical question, and that was very literally. In the meantime, I mean, every well-intentioned man in this country has become clear. Your government is gone, Mr. Dacic. You are the Prime Minister who assures Serbia that after two months he is in great relations with the first Deputy Prime Minister. Your Minister of Energy runs his energy policy. Your justice minister has its own networks of courts and its number of courts in Serbia, so 20 judges come to the 100,000 inhabitants in Europe, but he thinks the judge needs 40. The reference index for the network of courts is 2.7 in Serbia, and there is one in Europe. But we have more money than Germany and France and Scandinavian countries. We can afford it. Dinkic, he adopted his budget and now he needs to explain to Vojvodina whether it is denied for some right or not. Of course it was denied and denied by the same mind that previously passed the Constitution in 2006, which in the meantime was not ready to respect itself. The wolf leads his fight against corruption. Nikolic has his own Kosovo policy. I ask you - what will we, Mr Dacic, do as people who live in this country, in seven days when Belgrade turns into a war zone again, what was it like in 2009 or 2010? Will it be a question of your personal courage or the willingness of the police to put their heads under a stone or is it another indicator that we did not create a state, but we are not able to respond to the obligations arising from the fact that we are under the circumstances that you are the Prime Minister, I am head of the opposition parliamentary group, what will Serbia do on 6 October? Who in this country is allowed to threaten with violence? When something like that happens, we as politicians here need to talk about it. What will the justice ministers do? What will the Deputy Prime Minister do, among other things, about security? Why are we keeping this quiet now? Is that going to be a question for the Director of Police, for the Director of the Police? We need order in this country. Tell us what your government's plan is. Then on another occasion, we're going to ask those who are representing themselves as ministers of your government, and they're actually running each one of their own policies. I don't know what policy Ilic and Mrkonjic lead? In the meantime, they probably agreed to make their own side of the road. If that's the way to get the road, fine, but then let's say something like that. Prime Minister, be Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2857	Time to Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2858	I thank Mr. Jovanovic for encouraging everyone to do their job, including me as Prime Minister. It's absolutely incorrect that every minister has his own policy. The government of the Republic of Serbia has one policy. She is the highest executive body in the Republic of Serbia. The President of the Republic of Serbia does not interfere in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor does the Government of the Republic of Serbia interfere in the jurisdiction of other state authorities. The government is also in charge of determining and leading, of course, if necessary based on Parliament's decisions, both internal and foreign policy. Of course, every minister is responsible for the situation in a particular area. There were no points of the agenda in the government of the Republic of Serbia where not all voted unanimously. That doesn't mean that the quality of work is at some high level, that means there's no conflict and no problem. I don't think one government has yet been seen where it hasn't been two months since the election, because it's now two months from the election, where so many questions are being asked. Now I've even been invited to visit the RTS for two months of government work. Okay, and that's possible, probably. I said that no one in Serbia has a magic wand to solve the problems Serbia faces today, and the problems are great, both in the economic and social areas and in the political sphere, and in the sphere of issues that are both internal policy, but also in terms of force on the international political scene, such as the Kosovo issue. Serbia's government, if it wants to run politics, must have its own stance and I agree. The government has shown its position on many issues. Of course, whether or not someone likes that attitude, each has its own responsibility. When it comes to economic and social policy, I said what I think should be the new government's work programme. It should be a restrictive monetary policy, saving the state, not tightening citizens' belts and encouraging development, fostering consumption, investment consumption. I didn't make it up. This is the policy that exists in Europe, in which you before me swear. What kind of politics is that? Have we formed the National Council for Economic Recovery? Did they ask for influence on the government of the Republic of Serbia? They got a chance. I'd like to suggest. You should suggest, too, Mr. Jovanovic. Next week, he will also host the National Council for Economic Recovery Nobel laureate Krugman in Belgrade. (Kedomir Jovanovic from the post: Who paid for it? Tell them the privates paid for it. Now the question is, who paid? You know what, they've been coming to see you for years, and that would be like asking someone from the international community -- who paid you to come here and give a lecture? They're used to giving lectures. Have them give a lecture in the area of economy, not just give us lectures on what we need to do about KIM. But it doesn't matter what Krugman says, does it matter what kind of politics you want us to run? Do you want to cut pensions? Do you want to cut wages? Say what you want. Is that what you want? We disagree. You want us not to give farmers various subsidies to mitigate the effects of drought? You don't want us to give incentives to the economy? How are we going to reduce public spending? Don't fool the people here now that it's now a philosophical category, it's a direct practical category, by firing workers, right, by cutting and freezing wages and pensions? We have pleaded against this policy. I've had enough of this policy. That policy has also led to company robbery. One-third of the companies are privatised thieves, workers are out of work, and half a million pensioners have less than 15,000 dinars. If they stole that pensioner's salary, wouldn't they answer? Is that right, Minister of Justice, because it's petty theft? You're asking us to cut their pensions now. I don't know, suggest. Salaries and pensions won't grow as much as they need to, growing less than they should, as far as possible at this point. After all, I don't think that what you're saying has any good intentions, on the contrary, I think we should open a dialogue, since I see that LDP is a serious opposition in this parliament, which is the most emerging in challenging the policy of the Republic of Serbia's government, I am ready to discuss all issues, all issues, and to seek common interest. Does this government have a position on European integration? There is. Does that attitude sometimes lie in everyone’s heart? No, I don't. But we agreed to realise what Borislav Stefanovic initialled, which the Serbian government did not sign from February to today. To avoid confusion, Mr. Stefanovic did not initial it to make a decision. He made a deal. At least that's how he declared it at the time. After all, ladies and gentlemen, if it hadn't been for that agreement that he reached and the regional representation agreement, we wouldn't have gotten candidate status. Be open and honest. Mr Jovanovic, you should congratulate this government more on European integration than on the previous one. All the ministers who were in Brussels had extraordinary conversations. I don't know if you've been interrupted from communication with Brussels, but I haven't heard that the European Commission has any objections to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, for the DSS, it's not a compliment. This is really embarrassing that you who beat Milosevic in European politics on October 5th, 2000, are now throwing to me about the European Union. How far have we come, ladies and gentlemen? What did you take down Milosevic? Why didn't you yell - Slobodan Milosevic is a hero, who Mrkonjic says today? What? You know what, when you met with Solana, with Madlen Albright, you didn't mind European orientation. Now you have a problem with the European orientation of this government. Besides, you're not in the government, you're in opposition. Thank you for your criticism. That's where you'll stay. After all, I supported your government, which it saw as a policy of European integration. After all, I supported your government... No, no, I supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was not Cedomir Jovanovic. I never supported Cedomir Jovanovic. You and them were all in power here, you were all together, so you were so, you barely gathered to bring Milosevic down. Now, when you look where you are, you are on all sides, but aren't you a little uncomfortable that 12 years after the fall of Milosevic you are on different sides? Since you spoke of Milosevic as being a dictatorial, not a national regime that caused wars, what would you have done if, God forbid, you were in his place. I have no intention of keeping anything from anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been on the political scene of Serbia for 22 years. I went out before the people, and when it was good, and it was bad, and I was winning, and I was losing. In this election, I won twice as many votes as I won in the last election. How much did you win? How many votes did you win? This is the result of your policy in the previous period. How much, especially not to say where... As far as that goes, since you asked a question, I'm not limited to how much I'm going to talk. There's another hour and 20 minutes till 15 to seven. (Siniša Kovacevic, from the place: Castro spoke much longer. What? I think the controversy is the basis of every democracy. If you don't want it to suit you, don't let it go. What do you think we came here to train boxing? We're not a punching bag here. Feel free to hit, but you'll get a political answer. So, ladies and gentlemen, does anyone have an attitude or not? We have an attitude. The position on international policy is clear. We want to join the European Union, but not at the cost of losing national and state interests. What's the difference in our policy? We want dialogue with Pristina authorities. We want dialogue, but we don't want to sit at a table to give them the legality for something they've already done. After all, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of Milosevic, you received Resolution 1244, at the time of Kostunica and Tadic, you gained independence from Kosovo and Metohija, so assess what we got better. You fought with all your strengths just to preserve what Milosevic had done - Resolution 1244. (Milan Lapcevic, from the place: What he lost. If he's lost, take it now and win. All heroes to no one... I don't know where you were, why didn't you wage war when Kosovo and Metohija were declared independent? You were in power, the government of Tadic and Kostunica. You who defend national and state interests and think you are so much bigger Serbs than others, why didn't you mobilize the military and police and attack Kosovo and Metohija, or defend Serbian territory? Why didn't you? Because you know it's not real, ladies and gentlemen. So I absolutely don't accept that someone is transferring us to whether we're jeopardizing national and state interests. Today, the threat of national and state interests is calling for vain victims. Today, the defence of national and state interests is a smart and wise policy that will lead to us not being in a dilemma or recognising Kosovo's independence or joining the EU. What is our policy regarding European integration? We have written in a coalition agreement – the path to the EU, the protection of national and national interests. We have never had closer relations with the EU and never closer relations with the Russian Federation. You'll admit it's a success. What is our position on other questions? Mr. Jovanovic is interested in Pride, probably, after he asked me what was October 6th. There are more events on October 6th. The Karadjordjevic family returns the remains of three family members, where we had to attend a committee session chaired by President Nikolic, whose deputy president I am, to resolve the issue of where they will be buried. Will they all be buried in a church or will one of them be out? It was a major national and national issue. That's what happens on the sixth. The sixth is also the marking of war crimes in the Lambs during World War II. The sixth is announced parade. What's gonna happen to that? As far as I'm concerned, as far as the Serbian government is concerned, there is no doubt that what the Assembly has brought and what is in the Constitution and the law and international standards, defined as human rights and freedom, should be allowed to happen in Serbia. Unless there's a security reason for that. I went to the security services to get the reports and their evaluations. The visit was announced by the Swedish Minister of European Affairs and several MEPs for December 6th. As you know, they announce that it will be one of the important conditions for the progress report, which is being written and published on October 10th. I'm just giving you the facts. We can say it doesn't matter, but we need to know what we want. Once again, the government of the Republic of Serbia is not here to decide whether to ban anything or not. It's not a political decision, it's a security decision. From the legal point of view, there is no need for any event to be approved, it is only forbidden. This event lasts five or six days. She'll be held. Will there be a parade? We'll decide in the next few days when it comes to a security assessment. There are many reasons for and against. First, the majority of citizens certainly do not support the maintenance of the parade, but I absolutely do not give anyone the right to determine, if not outside the legal state authorities, any threat, violence cannot be tolerated. Who gave any other organization the right to say anything could or could not be held in Belgrade? Either we're a state, or we're just something that looks like a state, and it's run by someone far more powerful, who doesn't go to elections at all, which is nationalist and extremist forces. We won't let that happen. This is absolutely the wrong assessment that the Serbian government, as I say, will be intimidated by pressure, threats and blackmail, the threat of violence in maintaining the Pride, or Gay Parade. Of course, I don't think it's a necessary condition for EU entry and I think it's an absolutely wrong connotation. After all, there are many countries where there is no such thing. After all, there are countries where this would be considered a provocation. There are also countries that have moved further away from us in European integration, which have not had cases of maintenance of the Gay Parade. Montenegro has moved away from us, so I didn't notice that the Gay Parade was held in Podgorica or Cetinje. I didn't even notice anyone thinking about holding a Gay parade in Sarajevo. I didn't even notice that the Gay Parade is being planned in Pristina in the mesmice of the International Community. Well, no one thought to say they don't respect and violate human rights there. We have such laws that there is no need in this way to prove whether or not we have any orientation on any basis, including sexual orientation. So, the Serbian government has not considered the issue of "Prajda", or will consider it, because it is not a question for the Serbian government, but it will make a decision. That decision means taking responsibility for the decision made. Mr. Jovanovic is right, each of you who here or in the public calls for violence primarily harms our country, our citizens and the country's reputation. The basic price will be paid by the cops. Do you think these cops support the Gay Parade? No, but they're working on this country's orders. That's why you politicians take care of what you say. 'Cause if that's what you think, then come along, and you'll be out of your mind on October 6th. You have a responsibility, it's not politics just, I know that authorities and opposition can sometimes speak differently, it's probably different when you're in power, when you're in opposition, but cops are cops. What, Mr. Palalic? Did you throw anything at me? (John Palalic, from the place: You talk for 20 minutes.) Is there any limit? (John Palalic, from the place: We MPs have three minutes. You have three minutes, but I'm the Prime Minister. I'm the Prime Minister you elected here. I listened to you very carefully, and you will listen to me until you change me. Mr. Jovanovic asked me to be Prime Minister, here you go. I'm responsible for everything that's going on in this country, so I have the right to state my policy. After all, when Kostunica was Prime Minister, I listened to him. When Kostunica was Prime Minister, I voted for him, and you didn't vote for me. When Kostunica was prime minister, he did not often appear in parliament. Of the 19 members of the government here today there are 13. It would be my turn if someone said it as a positive fact. This government hasn't had any phone sessions so far. In the previous government meeting of 700 sessions, there were phone sessions. This government is at the beginning of its mandate. Of course, it's not an easy situation we're in, but we're willing to bear responsibility and we're really calling for dialogue and for those we've been with so far in power and those we used to be in power with. There is no longer anyone in this country who has not been in power with anyone. In this country, all parties, so to speak, took part in the government for these 22 years in the existence of a multi-party system. I'm ready if we need to work till midnight, and by 6:00 in the morning. You know I love giving a speech at five in the morning, if you'll excuse me. I've spent my whole life in parliament and I just miss this kind of debate. You asked me to come and, look, I came. Thank you for calling me. You can ask me, you can criticize me, you can do whatever you want, but I'll answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2859	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2860	Mr. Dacic, I'm going to leave the people out of this room who are following our debate to find out for themselves what kind of country you've been talking about like you've been talking about for the past 25 minutes. I ask you, do you feel responsible for the sentence - except for Europe that goes through the Pride Parade? Do you feel responsible for the coalition you made with those who broke your officers' heads on the streets of Belgrade two years ago and who are now threatening your police? Dacic, you're the Prime Minister. No one in Serbia cares about what Kostunica did 12 years ago, or what Milosevic did 12 years ago. This country depends on the ability of you and your cabinet to define the goal of our society, the way we will reach that goal, to bring our needs and potentials into line. Who ever said we don't want pensioners to take pensions? We don't want the pensioners' misfortunes to be paralysed by those who destroyed them before. That's not what we want. In Europe's poorest country, the 13th pension is promised by borrowing and destroying the country. Serbia is in debt 500 million for 50 days of your government. We want order in the pension fund, fair authority and clear laws. You don't have a government. When did you decide to promise Serbia two hours cheaper electricity a day? When was that decision made? When the Government decided not to respect the Constitution and told Mladjan Dinkic, do you not respect the Constitution and deny the Duke what she has the right to do? That's not true. You never talked about it. When did you formulate Kosovo politics? What time does your government and your coalition live in? You want to talk at the highest level. They were led, Dacic, and five years ago they were finished. They were led by the president and the prime minister. They ended in February by declaring Kosovo independence. Who does the president of the state mean when he warns some in the government who share Kosovo and others who would have good neighbourly relations with Kosovo? Whatever this country and we are to it, we are responsible for what will be tomorrow. You can't be in Arangelovec, building power with violent men, and you can't be surprised here because someone dares in the 21st century to threaten people in Serbia. It's a political question, not a question for the director of the police or for that Rodic in BIA, but a political question for your government. Stop those insinuations. What's all this going to do? So what if it wasn't in Montenegro? Do we want to bring these people to Montenegro? Someone here wants to live freely in accordance with the law. Put out the law and end the story. Europe doesn't put any ultimatums ahead of us. I don't care who's coming on October 6th, I want to go with my children that day, and Saturday I want to walk the streets of Belgrade and I want you to take a walk, and you, Minister Obradovic. Maybe our kids will meet us at some birthday party. I don't want any beatings in Belgrade. All those who destroyed Belgrade two years ago were released. At the time, Tadic was president, shot in his photo, and today he is Nikolic. Order in the country, establish. Order is not in your government either, how can it be in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2861	Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2862	Well, I'm a little surprised when you claim that we should import gays into Montenegro, like they're not there? What do you mean, there are so many in Serbia that we can export them? I'm not sure you're right. But in Sarajevo, in Pristina, in Cetinje or in Novi Pazar to organise a Gay Parade, I don't think the NATO Pact could either. Why? Because everyone's just against it, don't nod me now, like it's not true, so where do you live? What world do you ladies and gentlemen live in? Is that what we're talking about unreal that there are problems? Is it a reality that all extremists join together, whether they are Catholics, Orthodox or Muslims against the Gay Parade? But we never once said there was no right to organize it. After all, they will organize a whole series of events in a closed space and whether or not there will be walks, it would be good to be. It would be good for everyone, for Serbia to go without a problem. That's a very clear view. Besides, I find it particularly interesting how the DS will react to that? 'Cause last time, DS was a no-gay parade. They just didn't have the guts to do it, I had to do it. And that's true, at the highest level it's so decided. So I'm not saying anything new here, these are the problems that follow us. Last year was a gay parade, and you know how it was. The police were the biggest victim. Hilary Clinton, when she visited Belgrade, after the Gay Parade, the only thing she praised, praised the police. The police have nothing to do with it. And one of you is going to say, negatively comment on what she commended. In any case, I don't care who comes to the side or not, I'm only interested in preserving public order and peace and ensuring human rights and freedom. Public gatherings are free unless there are security reasons for their non-maintainment. This second, I don't know how we did it, Mr. Jovanovic, to owe the country 500 million in two months. It is obvious that something that is the budget rebalance, which is actually the budget, you have brought the budget here, not the rebalance, but the 2012 budget, must contain everything that will be and what was in 2012. After all, we are not running away from any responsibility, in any case the time ahead will show whether the economic policy we are leading will be successful or not. I don't know, you're talking about it, I see you've been negatively expressing yourself about my way of expressing yourself. You know what, I'm a man who wants to speak clearly. I am a man who wants everyone to know that I understand this people, because so will the people understand me. Perhaps you want a prime minister who, when he goes to Sarajevo, shoots Sarajevo, or paints himself with a rifle, or turns the ox on Karadzic at the Palace. I've been to Sarajevo, we've had extraordinary conversations, I've been in Banja Luka and Serbia's only had good sides of this visit, of course I'm not suggesting that you like me, because if you like me, I wouldn't like most Serbian citizens. But that is why I accept your remarks, if they lead to some goal, which is that we really define one policy of Serbia that will allow, as you advocate, that we have one real policy that will mark Serbia in the 21st century and point to the direction we want to go. Here, I'm willing to share that responsibility with anyone who wants to, whether they're in power or in opposition, no matter what you say, what they were 20 years ago, or 10 years ago or 15 years ago, etc. Besides, when you remind me, for the first time, the conflicts in Belgrade were over the Gay Parade when you were in power, Mr. Jovanovic, was it 2001? I know that's what Mr. Korach was reacting to now. So in 2001. It can't even be said then that the state knew what to do, that violence that was at the parade at the time. From then to 2008, we had no activity on the plan until 2009. In the police department, the greatest opportunity was made for this occasion. They're even, I don't know if you even know there are clubs where they gather, the parties they're throwing, it's all provided by the police. It's not just a parade that points to that right or freedom. Mr Dinkic, if he has some things to add to this task, is not our goal of borrowing Serbia, it is our goal if they are to be investment borrowings in order for it to be an incentive for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2863	Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2864	Thank you. I know that you have completed dramaturgy, not mathematics, but don't deceive the citizens of Serbia, the new government has not borrowed 500m euros as you said earlier, you can look at the data published regularly on the Ministry of Finance's website. From the formation of this government to today, public debt has increased by about 140m euros. If 500m euros is equal to 140m euros, then I don't know what to say. Anyway, it's a request to be more careful in quoting the data, because it's not true. On the other hand, this information is to this day. Tonight, when you turn on television or tomorrow morning, you will hear one information that may surprise you, you are embarrassed because you want Serbia to be worse, and that is the information that Serbia has managed to carry out today's first Eurobond show during the government's term in the lower credit rating situation, and at a price significantly lower than what Cvetkovic's government did. How did we do that? You can only, as far as I know, be angry, be wrong to you, but this government led by Mr. Dacic, Vukic, Ilic, Mrkonjic, Kalanovic and all of us here will produce much better results than you want us to do. So, and this price for our bond is not formed in this assembly, it's not formed in our country, it's formed on the international market by investors from Europe and the United States, so from all markets. I'm not saying that we want to iron out now with how it's possible that one country that has reduced credit rating sales to a lower interest bond, but one that had a higher rating is a question for Cvetkovic's government. You'll hear when the transaction is closed, but it's already in progress. What I'm saying is, you're wrong even when you say we intend to break the constitution or do it. What's this about? Please do not support political stories that are easily justified in Vojvodina, that the supposed republican government has something against the province. We'll go to Novi Sad next week to discuss the 2013 budget. Here's to repeat what I've been saying for the past week. We have abolished our own incomes as a category for republican institutions, ministries, funds. Own income no longer exists. The requirement to transfer to Vojvodina is calculated on a basis that includes its own income, means that it is required that in the conditions of this crisis when we seek to cut the budget deficit in the following year, only one part of the state territory, which is the province of Vojvodina gets significantly higher budgets than everyone else in the entire country. In doing so, in breach of the principle so far, before the adoption of the Budgetary System Act, there were two columns on the budget – regular income and own income. Now there is only one – total income. These totals consist of tax and these own. These own now belong not to the ministries, but to the state. If that was the basis for a transfer for Vojvodina, it is clear that Vojvodina would have the right to gain much more, but these own revenues never entered into the base for the past four or five years, so you never objected to Mr. Jovanovic, neither Mr. Pastor nor DS. Now you are rebelling, primarily the people of the District Government, just because the representatives of their political options are not in the Republic government. Serbian citizens should know, and especially Vojvodina, there is no single reason to protest the province's economic character, because the budget that the province will have under the constitution will be bigger next year than this one. This year, the transfer is calculated on the basis of 750 billion dinars, and next year it will be calculated on the basis of 820 billion dinars, with a total of at least 5 billion dinars to be more won by Vojvodina. What some party politicians have remarked about is not represented in the current Republic government, why the own income of this environmental tax that we've been talking about, these other taxes that become the income of the state, are now not entering that base. Well, they've never been in before. Since the constitution of Serbia was adopted, since 2008, and in 2006, they have not entered that base. And then none of it made any noise. I understand the need for some parties who are not in the Republic government to use this as a political platform to make an artificial gap between the Vojvodina and the Republic Government. I don't understand you, Mr. Jovanovic, that you are entering this choir together with them and that you mention that I am violating the Constitution. So, the Constitution says 7% of the Republic's budget belongs to Vojvodina. The definition of the Republic's budget is defined by the Budgetary System Act. It was defined earlier in one way, because its own revenues were not revenues to the state, and now that we have abolished our own revenues, as our own revenues to the ministries and bodies and included them in the general income of the state, we cannot imagine just because of the change in methodology that suddenly rastransfers and the economic situation in Serbia are not good today. So, I just want you both to know in both cases and the wrong information about the rise in public debt to this point, until the sale of the euro -- the bonds, you couldn't know about this sale, because nobody could know until the transaction was over. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the place: Here, here. ) You can show that phone, but it's only now, you couldn't know about it today. We're talking now, man. ( ) Especially since the amount of bond broadcasting is much higher than the figure you were talking about, that's what you're counting on. You're counting on duty until today because you told me in parliament last week and it wasn't the right information, and I didn't want to answer that. It's just a request that when we talk about numbers, about economic data, of course, you're going to have the possibility and you have the opportunity to look at the site, you're going to take the exact number out. As with this question that is sensitive, the issue of the transfer of the AP Vojvodina. Unlike the previous period when 7% of the budget was calculated, which also did not contain its own revenues, but included some expenditures Mr. Pastor never said, and these were expenditures for the capitalisation of the Vojvodine Development Bank, as many as nine billion dinars went away, not for the needs of Vojvodina cities, to build infrastructure in Vojvodina, but to cover a political dubiosis in Vojvodina Development Bank. In the following year, I guarantee you the province will receive greater resources and more quality resources, not to cover political dubiosis, but to develop your economy, infrastructure and for the development of the province, of which the citizens of Vojvodina benefit, and not the political establishment that attacked me because of the violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2865	The word has Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2866	Here's a few things to answer. First of all, I don't understand what "your energy policy" means and that everyone runs all kinds of policies." So, politics, the government's energy policy, it is also the energy policy of the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, but it's normal for everyone to be in charge of their own resources, and not for that to be like it was in the previous government when we had a president of the state, who dealt with everything and everything. I don't understand one thing, Mr. Jovanovic, about two hours of cheap electricity, so yes, in Serbia there will be two hours of cheap electricity. It's a job, as you know, primarily JP EPS. As you know the order, since I would say that you are not familiar with it, the government is discussing it, the Ministry that the order of the JP that is within it, and then the JP is watching what technical possibilities are, and the technical possibilities of the system say that two hours of cheap electricity will be and they will be realized in the next period, which will be notified to the public. But I don't understand whether it's good or bad, for you and for the way you talk is bad. You see, I think it's very good and that it has to exist in this country, there are reasons why it's good. That means somewhat, the beginning of a change in the tariff system which otherwise proved to be a very bad and tariff system that has put us in a situation, so today we have a problem with electricity shortages. Therefore, the government's energy policy is serious in this government, not only about the problems in electricity – energy, but there are a few things that this government is working on, strategic things, it also refers to energy efficiency, because there's electricity that you've now tried to mention through the tariff system, and I'd say you're not fully informed, and I believe that in the next period when you get all the information, if you don't have it, this ministry will deliver it to you. I guess you'll have a more constructive question then, and I expect you to also think more constructively about the topic of energy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2867	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2868	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so let me go, I'll give you your attention first, you're a lady. When you knew what you were doing, you wouldn't have come such a strange way from G 17 plus to these changed radicals, that's the first fact. The second is, I know very well what I'm talking about, your two hours of cheap electricity is just as real as three dinar bread, nothing is free of charge. You should ask those people who are much more invited to talk about it from yourself and that populism and that demagogy you're with will cost this country too, and that EPS machine, average age 36, will be completely destroyed. The energy policy of this government does not exist, as it has never existed before this government. If it existed, we wouldn't have had everything that's been happening to us in the past few years. If we want to talk about the situation in the energy sector, then first we need to start talking about the damage you've already made to your decisions, that in the middle of August, the thermal power plant and heat plant in Vojvodina, at a price already over 150 euros per megawatt hour, instead of importing it for 60, so that you Dacic will be responsible in November and December, when there will be an empty accumulation, and you won't be able to buy the electricity anywhere. That's it, but this is for another debate. Dinkic, 33 billion dinars are in debt in monetary securities of value, 80m euros is in debt to Eurobonds, 300m dollars in credit in Moscow, and you came to power in a coalition that has promised 100 billion investment. Yesterday, you owed 21m euros in dinar securities by selling only 24% of the emissions at 16% interest. There's no need to go back to a thousand euros. Get smart already. That's not what I'm asking of you. I never told you you wanted evil to this country, that's what you told me. I live in this country and intend to live here and fight for it. Stop that policy, because you've led us with this policy to this living mud that we're in today. I don't expect miracles from you. Be a serious finance minister and tell Serbia the truth. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the place: Much more serious than you expect. )Be the best in history, I have no problem with that, but what you have done so far, you are again in the project of a thousand euros. You're back in that project, that's why you were alone. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm afraid there's nothing I can do to help you after what you said yourself in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2869	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2870	I think I have to refer this question to the prime minister because I don't think the minister in question is here. My question concerns an event a week ago, which occurred in the Assembly, where a member of the LDP called Mr. Milan Krkobibic and said he had been a disabled pensioner for ten years and, of course, could not have been appointed as general director of PTT Serbia. On the same day, Mr. Krkobic had his own conference and made a statement and asked the official state authorities, including all security services, to finally give an answer to the question because, to be precise, as you say, and very clear to all the people who are watching us, I don't know whether to call it a lie or to call it a lie that's been told here, but it's been repeating since 2008. The biography of Mr Milan Krkobbić has been hanging on the city's website since 2008. He is the head of our parliamentary group in the Assembly, as the issue is constantly being raised in the Assembly, and I really think it's finally time to give an answer, to have someone stand officially behind it. So it's not hard to press the PIO Fund button and determine if it's an insurance or if it's a retirement user. But, of course, right-holders will know who the insurance company is and who the pension user is. On the other hand, that concern is really interesting. I have information that says very scary things about professional non-partisan personalities set up by you. We'll talk about it some other time, because we have a short period of time now, but I'd like to finally clarify whether Mr. Krkobic is a disabled pensioner for ten years and thus violates the law, and then he brings sanctions or someone here who, as far as I know, is a lawyer by profession would simply have to know some things. I think it's getting really offensive and we expect you to give us a concrete answer and that all these people who look at us finally realize who's not telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2871	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2872	Here, since the Resort Minister isn't here, let's say I don't really know the answer to this question. I didn't expect you to ask me that, but there's no problem in getting information about it officially. I think it's a good thing there's an official report, so it wouldn't be a topic of discussion. Speaking of which, Mr. Milan Krkobic has been deputy mayor of Belgrade four years ago, and it seems to me that the LDP did not ask that question at the time, while we were together in the coalition. Ministers can be disabled, politicians, MPs, and they can't be director? I know a lot of politicians who went into disability pensions, so they later had political careers. I know a lot of people who have been declared disabled, so they've been ministers in certain areas, etc., but it doesn't matter, because I think this is where I really need to answer this question. I'm kind of glad to see you from the democratic block of the old way. It's just that I don't have to answer for a word, but I have to add something since things have changed for 12 years or as long as it's been since 2000. I think the weather has changed completely today and I think we need to change the policies of the floscule with which it occurs and look for some touch points and common denominators, because if we're looking for them in the past, I don't think we're going to find a lot of them, but I think we can find them in the future. We can't change the past much, but I think we can change Serbia's present and future a lot. It's a chance. I've spoken to a lot of world officials now from Brussels, Washington, Berlin and Moscow, and I haven't heard too much regret about the previous ruling coalition anywhere. On the contrary, I've only heard stories that this new government is a new chance for Serbia. So I think that we should all participate in this together, regardless of whether there's a government or an opposition, and I think we have at least one topic that we have common views on. I also think of Mr. Jovanovic, so there will be no dilemma. Even though we're political opponents, there's something that connects us, which is that we probably want good to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2873	Mrs. Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2874	Dear Prime Minister, I would still like to be very specific. Whether disabled workers can be engaged somewhere politically, in one way or another, I absolutely don't get into it, but I know they can't start a regular working relationship. Mr. Krkobiæ is a man who is a man who works and who has been in a permanent working relationship in the City Assembly, as he is in a permanent working relationship now and in this parliament. I just need to say it for all the people who listen to us. On the other hand, we have all kinds of concerns about Mr. Krkobic's expertise and ability to run such a system that has 220m euros in resources, forgetting that he was another man of the city, and the city has over a million euros. It's just, I know it's fun for you, and I know it's a topic where you can pick up every time and call us and make yourself some commercials. I know you like to reach out to pensioners and $500 million for the pensioners in charge, but I just feel that the need for us as a PUPS parliamentary group to expect an official response that someone here will deliver to us in the City Assembly, where it will be read publicly and thus someone here has been sanctioned for unspoken truths. If it is Mr. Krkobic, we will absolutely take the sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2875	Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2876	I really didn't get your demands. Maybe it's directed to the ministry, I suppose, for work, or I don't know who? If you have made such a request, it is certain that you should receive an official answer. But I don't want to say something I don't know. At this point, I haven't received any of your requests. I think it's good, precisely because of this clarification, that there's an official explanation of the whole situation. I expect you'll get an answer from the D.O.D. I will ask Mr. Jovan Krkobic to respond as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2877	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2878	Mr. President, with respect that you are here with members of your government, ready to answer our questions, I will return from high policy to the ground-floor Serbia and therefore I am giving you the question, above all, as Minister of the Interior. Not long ago, the assembly passed the law, or addition of the Law on Out-of-pard procedure, which allows one number of legally invisible persons to resolve their legal subjectivity more easily, more effectively, but also adopted another important law for these persons last year, which is the Law on residence and residence. The law, among other things, treats a category of persons who cannot properly and by law provide for a way to resolve their residence, allowing them to do so at the address of the Centre for Social Work. So, indeed, one extraordinary thing, especially for people who are in a state of social need, residents of "carton settlements", Roma families, but also for a large number of people who return from serving prison sentences because, as a rule, they usually have a problem taking out personal documents, which, of course, also enter the social, health, educational protection system and all other categories. Unfortunately, this law, although applied since November of the month, did not live in practice in this article. In the expert public, it is expected to adopt sublegal acts and prescribe a form through which citizens will apply for a social work centre, which is precisely the responsibility of the interior minister, with the agreement of the minister of social affairs. So my question is precisely this final part – when this sublegal act is expected, because I really believe that with the full application of the law for these persons we will find the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2879	Thank you. Mr. Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2880	I'm not sure whether a sublegal solution has already been made or not. First of all, there was a break in work because of the choices they were made. It is an important law, which allows and solves one problem and we have done so. There is a big problem, with which we have often discussed with European representatives and representatives, especially the UN, which is what about those who do not have a place of residence? One who doesn't have a place of residence can't realize all the other human rights that he has. That means he can't get a health card, no ID, nothing. We solved it in such a way that they could apply, after a long debate that was, because social work centres didn't exactly delight in accepting such a provision. It remains, as you know, when we pass every law, which we should normally change in the future. There are a number of sublegal acts waiting for the adoption and waiting for it to change. It's not the only law where there's a large number of follow-up sublegal acts waiting for them to be passed for a few years. I think it is very important that this issue is resolved as soon as possible, i.e. to start implementing what has been passed as a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2881	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2882	I thank Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dacic, you asked what kind of prime minister we would like to have? I'll try the shortest lines to answer you. For starters, we would like to have a prime minister who is worthy of the functions of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We'd like to have a prime minister who doesn't have an opinion in Brussels, but who has an opinion. It may surprise you a little bit, but it's something that would be a fundamental thing for any country that cares about its dignity. If you're going to be completely honest, Mr. Dacic, we'd like to have a prime minister who less consumes alcohol, whiskey and order bulls, and then likes to sing and give unrelated speeches at five in the morning in this house, disrupting both the reputation of his function and the reputation of this home. But it wasn't the subject of my question. My question concerns your government's Kosovo policy and is addressed to you, Mr. Prime Minister. You can't interrupt me. There's something called the Rules of Procedure and I have three minutes. Please leave me alone. You'll have until seven o'clock to answer me. (President: I ask my colleagues to continue our work in Parliament in a normal manner. Mr. President, I hope you'll make it up to me this time. (President: Time is not disputed, we will make up for it. I ask you all not to disturb the dignity of this house. ) Since your visit to Brussels, Mr Dacic, on several occasions we have been able to hear, from top EU officials and top EU officials, that Serbia will not be able to join the EU without prior recognition of the secession of its southern province. Besides, the first said by the President of the European Parliament, as you said, your friend Martin Schultz. He said that three weeks ago. Just a few days ago, she repeated the same thing, and that also means that Serbia cannot join the EU without acknowledging the secession of KIM, Mrs Lunacek, who is the rapporteur for Kosovo of the same parliament. In the meantime, between those two statements we got famous, I don't know what to call it, a German request, an ultimatum, a document in any case, at seven points, of which seven points are the most illustrative of what I'm talking about tonight. I will read here: "The accession of members must not bring unresolved conflicts into the EU. Serbia must show before the negotiations a visible will to achieve a legally binding normalisation of relations with Kosovo, with the prospect that both full members in terms of European contracts can realise their rights and obligations independently of each other." I don't think it takes any interpretation here, that these words are crystal clear and those for the DSS, which you mentioned so much, are no surprise. We have constantly warned all these years about the fact that Serbia's European path is directly conditioned by Kosovo. Unlike you, Mr Dacic, who said that these are two parallel tracks, which are not touched, we have been saying for the past four years that the processes of European integration and defence territorial integrity are two related processes. Connected in a way to shut down. And all the citizens of this country know it very well. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. You're entitled to another three minutes, but when Mr. Dacic answers. ) Mr Stefanovic, to say the least, this is incorrect. (President: I've given you 35 seconds back. Another quick question...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2883	You can, but after Mr. Dacic. Of course, if he wants to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2884	I have twice helped Vojislav Kostunica become prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The first time we supported the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica. The second time I convinced Tomislav Nikolic to give up the discussion so that you and Tadic could build a government, five minutes before the deadline expires, at midnight. Those who know me well, and that's Mr. Vojislav Kostunica and his cabinet members, know I've never been drunk in my life and not drink alcohol. You should be ashamed of what you're saying, sir. If you think that drunk or crazy is anyone who thinks Serbia should join the EU, then the whole of Serbia is either half drunk or half mad. If you think every exception is honorable, then why is the exception? How is it that only you in Serbia are against joining the EU? You, who beat Milosevic on that? Why didn't you talk then? What you're saying now, like the Prime Minister and the President should be, dignifiedly, proudly, slapping his hand on the table, telling the international community -- no, you're a hooligan, so that was Milosevic. Well, why'd you take it down? Who did you take him down with? With these sitting next to you, you handed it over to The Hague. Then you were uninformed, uninformed that it had happened. The democratic party of Serbia cannot exempt itself from responsibility for power after 2000, as the SPS does not exempt itself from responsibility. But please maintain your level and dignity in the way you discuss it. You should be ashamed, because I know a lot about both your party and your preferences and your pets and alcohol or alcohol, everything and I never talked about it. Just like I know so much about Shormaz, but I never spoke of him hiding behind your back again. After all, Vojislav Kostunica, the other day, seems to me, praised this Serbian government. I don't know, are you in touch with him? He commended this government for being better than the previous one and for it seems to have a more responsible policy, etc. You know what, the Serbian government in which the SPS was at war for Kosovo. You didn't move your finger when Kosovo declared independence. Please have respect for that. We tried, we failed. We also tried war to defend Kosovo, failed, but accusing someone here, from us or from the head of the SNS, that we are traitors of national and state interests is ridiculous. Please, ladies and gentlemen, there's the best in the war for the chase. The worst appear in peace. When there was a war, I didn't notice so much the enthusiasm of the then democratic opposition for participating in the war. You said it was Serbia's fault. You said Serbia caused wars. You said we committed genocide, war crimes. Don't change that policy now, because it's just not true. I didn't write this Constitution of Serbia. It was written by you from DSS and DSS. You wrote it. We voted for it. I did not participate at all in the negotiations on Kosovo at the time Mr Jovanovic is talking about. What are you doing here? What are you trying to do now, to present to the Serbian government that it is leading a two-month policy that is, therefore, contrary to national and state interests? What did the government do that is contrary to the state and national interests, which she signed, accepted an agreement that Borko Stefanovic accepted? Can we cancel the Dayton Agreement today? Can we today undo what Vojislav Kostunica signed? So, first readmission agreement, CEFT, how are they signed? How is Kosovo listed? Now you have stood up here and said – the Constitution of Serbia. You know what, according to the Constitution of Serbia, many of the things that were in the past constitution were no longer a reality. It is not only the Constitution that defends Serbia. Today when you say something that is written in the Constitution, which is not realistic, the international community thinks you don't care about it anymore. How do we exercise sovereignty in Kosovo? We're not making it happen. We're making it come true by everything that came out of what happened after 1999, which the international community wants to abolish. We will not recognise Kosovo's independence, but we will try not to stop Serbia's European path. I think it's fair and realistic and what the citizens want. If you think we're wrong, criticize us, just don't insult us, because it's not politically correct and it's not human correct. You're gonna make me deal with you, and I'm sure I can find out more about you than you do about me. I'm only using what I am as Minister of the Interior, I've never used any instruments of force, but I think it's extremely inappropriate for you from your party, whose people I can tell you hundreds of pages about, that's what you're talking about. I expect you to apologize, because I think you've violated the basic human code. I've never been drunk in my life, unlike many of your politicians from your party. I have never abused my place in my life, and I am conducting an open political dialogue with you. We don't have to agree on everything, but it would be good to respect each other, as I respect what Mr. Kovacevic is doing, as I respect what Mr. Kostunica did in the past. I expect you to express respect for something that exists as an institution, and especially to me as a person who has spent five years of political life with you in Serbia and whose votes you gentlemen have ruled, not me. Don't make me regret it. I wish you, of course, the best of luck. Rest assured, this government is not a traitor, but it will not push Serbia into vain sacrifice. Enough of Serbia's blood and wars. We need a wise and smart policy, which will lead us to our goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2885	The word has been made by MP Milos Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2886	Mr. Dacic, I don't know what you'd like to know about me, but don't waste the resources of the state. Whatever you want to know, ask me. I will answer your every question very openly. When it comes to dignity, that's exactly what we're talking about and we're urging you to behave with dignity and conduct. To get back to my question, that's the most important thing, and that may be the most important thing that will undermine your speech about the government, which, of course, does not work against national and state interests. I didn't get to finish. Now I'm going to ask you both both part of the question. It's a very simple question. Today, the fact that Serbia has been put ahead of the election and that it has to choose between Kosovo and Metohija and the EU and that fact cannot be hidden. How will your government, Mr. Dacic, be determined according to that fact? The second part of the question concerns so-called. agreed conclusions recently reached by Borislav Stefanovic here with a representative of secessionist institutions from Pristina, which Serbia also accepted personal documents and customs and diplomas, even the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, etc. An independent Kosovo. These agreements, and there is no doubt, are clearly against the constitution and not only are they anti-constitutional, but they do not represent international contracts within the meaning of the Vienna Treaty on Contract Law, and at least on that basis are not legally binding. My question to you – does your government really intend to implement those agreements because they are, I repeat, anti-constitutional and directly against the national and state interest of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2887	I don't know if you're asking me that, because I don't think there's any need to waste words. There's no need for you to ask me and ask rectoral questions that you know the answer to in advance. Of course, Serbia will never choose the European Union between the European Union and the loss of Kosovo because of the European Union. It is more important to us than anything Serbia, but I guess we have to do everything in our power not to allow such a dilemma to be set up for us. The skill of politics is not whether you can hit your head against the wall, but whether you can avoid it. We are leading the policy to avoid placing such a kind of dilemma, to find solutions that will not have to bring Serbia to the dilemma and question - whether it must recognise Kosovo's independence or lose its entry into the European Union. After all, you know that, that's what I said in the campaign, I say and now, and Cedomir Jovanovic praised me for saying that I said the same thing in the campaign and now, so I won't lie in the campaign to do something else now. I am not a representative, nor a president of the Russian government, nor a pro-European government, nor a pro-American government, I am the president of the pro-Serbian, relative government of the Serbian citizens. All I care about is those interests. It's normal to look for the best way to get through that slalom. After all, DSS representatives have always been in the NATO parliamentary assembly, as I recall. That doesn't mean we're going to NATO. But you've always been there. I'm not giving you anything, I'm just saying. After all, your representative was Mr Aligrudic, who was head of our mission, or delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe when I was, we worked together. You are now a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation. How exactly do you choose NATO? If you blame me on the European Union, we still care more about it than about NATO. But no problem, you have the right to choose NATO as well. Obviously, you have no intention of supporting Serbia as a NATO member, and neither do I. I just called you back. You didn't answer that. You told lies about me. Do you think you have the right to do that? Do you think you have the right to stand up like that and tell a lie without having to deal with it properly, at least with moral consequences and say, "I'm sorry, I'm wrong?" Do you think you're running politics? Do you mean lies like that to win votes? You won't, because I've done a lot for your party. If anything, at least respect me and don't lie. I really expect you to apologize for what you said. I'll apologize to you if I say anything incorrect. But what you said deeply offends me, because most in the world, I hate people who think they're the smartest when they drink a glass of alcohol. I'm the Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, do you think someone could have told my predecessor, Dragan Jocic? You think someone could have told him that? You think he's bold? Do you think there was a reason? You want to make me do it now? Is this a serious state-of-the-art party like you? I don't know, I don't know you from the period of seriousness of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but you certainly won't get far. I'm ready to talk to you about everything. We built together, worked together against the Democratic Party. Together we removed Cedomir Jovanovic and the Democratic Party from power in 2004. Now you're talking about us like that. The only thing I can't see is where the Democratic Party is, but well, they have their own internal issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2888	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2889	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's try to break this agony. Just two things. When it comes to NATO, you know very well that it is a Partnership for Peace programme, not NATO. Our presence in the parliamentary delegation, saying nothing about our attitude towards NATO, is very well known. That argument is simply not valid. When it comes to that story who did it for whom? Mr. Dacic, with all due respect, you know very well that we have done more for you than you will ever be able to do for the DSS. Let's get to something much more important. Speaking of lies and apologies, you said I was lying and I'm ready to discuss it, because I'm not sure, I'm a man who doesn't lie. Speaking of lies and apologies, what is a lie and what is a visible lie, what is your previous government where you were vice president, worked for four years -- both Kosovo and Europe, this policy is a lie, this policy is a deception and there is no dilemma that this policy is dead and was never possible, either Kosovo or Europe. How many times does it take for European officials to tell you? Besides, I believe you know that very well. Speaking of apologies, Mr Dacic, honestly, I don't need you to apologize to me, you should apologize to the Serbian people for a four-year deception that has cost us a lot, which has made our position in Kosovo even worse. How far are we going with this policy that is false – both Europe and Kosovo? She's impossible, Mr. Dacic. You know that very well. You've been told a thousand times. We got a demarche in 2010. That little children in the mangers know, all of Serbia knows and you are now in direct transmission repeating to all of Serbia – both Kosovo and Europe. No one believes that. I could do it by ten o'clock, by five o'clock in the morning, if you like, to give you statements from senior officials of European countries, but let's release those statements, because that's what logic says. Please, Mr. Stefanovic, just another 20 seconds. Mr Dacic, do you really believe, so I don't have to explain to you Europeans how the EU joins. In order for one country to enter the EU, each EU Member State must accept it individually. The question to you – do you really believe, Mr Dacic, that one Germany, one Great Britain, one France or Italy will allow Serbia to enter the EU without Serbia doing what they did in 2008 – will recognise Kosovo's secession? Let's stop lying, let's go with the apologies. Enough – both Kosovo and Europe and apologize to the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2890	National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2891	Thank you. The question is for Minister of Education, Mr. Zarko Obradovic. That's the gentleman sitting next to the Dacic edge. So, not the Prime Minister, I'd like to ask Mr. Zarko Obradovic. It is a request from the parents of children with disabilities and children who attend or according to the programme of involvement, or even children without parental ageing, children from the home, from Zvecanska, who attend primary school school at Anton Skala. Of course, there are also objections to the work of Bosko Buha elementary school, but I have much less details about it. The parents' comments are that children work in completely unconditional classrooms, too small, that classrooms are overworked, that they are not working with children who have difficulty with speech or hearing, that teachers do not match enough attention to children and that there is not enough doactic material, nor toys, nor anything that regulations, laws that this congregation and dedication which was unquestionably, as much as we heard, from the Ministry of Education, inclusion and training of children with disabilities, our special children, are our joint special children in the conditions of education. It's not just a question of training those children, but it's our relationship to the conditions in which these children acquire basic knowledge for which they have their potentials and their abilities, and sometimes they can be magical. There's a picture of all of us at the same time. Are we turning our heads, not wanting to talk at all about whether or not there is a problem, or are we committed to solving the problem together, if there is one? So, my question – do you, as Minister, despite knowing the types of competences for specific types of education, have information and knowledge of the situation at the Anton Scale elementary school and Bosko Buha school? Do any of the ministry officials have suggestions for you or do you have an idea for us how to solve the problem, if there is one, according to the parent of the children at this school? I'll understand if you don't have the information right now and I'll wait for the written answer, but I'd be happy if you'd share it with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2892	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2893	Mrs. Komic, I must tell you, to the other fellow Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you were kind enough to give me this letter in the morning that you received from your parents and the questions raised in it. Let me ask my colleagues at the ministry to prepare one piece of information for the question to be asked today. Let me read everything I've got, it won't take long, but I think it's very important, because the questions that have been asked in this letter are very important to them, and they refer to one school and children who are there and the claims made, and it's good for the whole public to hear the answer. I only have here for the Anton Scala elementary school for Bosko Buha school. We'll deliver that later. So, the question was why the elementary school "Anton Scala" in Belgrade this school year received 17 first-class students from Zvezanska, i.e. from the social protection institution, and one parent child, i.e. a family student, with the goal of less defecologists working, and that vacation shouldn't be for teachers and just for students? During 2010-1011 elementary school "Anton Skal" Belgrade enrolled 13 students, including 10 from the family and three from the social protection institution, 13 students, 12 from the family and one from the home child were enrolled in 2011-2012. This school year 15 students from the Centre for the Protection of Children, Children and Youth were enrolled, two students from the home in Sremčica and one child from the family, a total of 18 students assigned to three departments. We notice that the number and structure are changing, you've seen it from this data. This is now important, which children will be enrolled depends on the opinion of the Interesor Commission, the time when a parent, or guardian, will address, because the school has limited spatial and personnel capacity. For the first time this school year, the school has enrolled three first grade departments, which is the highest number of first grade students enrolled since its founding. The school has co-operation with social protection institutions where children are in permanent accommodation and are mainly children without parental ageing. By enrolling in school, these children are included for the first time in the education system, which is also the goal of the state to educate and educate and children without parental ageing. As for objections to the work of defecologists, they are unfounded, as it is precisely the biggest interest in enrolling children in the Anton Skal elementary school of Belgrade. Also, the state, through the supervision of inspection and expert-pedagogical, can make an insight into the work of the school, which it does regularly. During the school year 2011-2012, there was one inspection under the parents' complaint and one expert-pedagogical supervision. Otherwise, here in the file, which I will provide you with with the contents of these letters, there is a report of these two inspection visits. As far as teachers and students' vacations are concerned, they have them both. Schools that educate students with developmental disorders pay particular attention to students' safety, and create such an organization, the schedule of duty during vacations, to monitor each student. A vacation must be given to teachers because by law it belongs to them, but student safety always comes first. Two, it is stated that special schools are being built in a special school, and that there are non-speeching wards. The process of inclusion enables all children and those who have not been involved in the education-experienced system to be included in education-experienced work. Children with easier interference are involved in regular schools, while children with severe disorders are educated in schools for education and education of children with developmental disorders. Unfortunately, the degree of distraction of these children is such that most of them do not have developed speech. Since the largest number of children are such, it is sometimes impossible to form a different department. In order to solve the problem of the former two, in accordance with the professional guidance of the Ministry of Education, three second grade departments were formed in this school to provide children with additional support, as this is possible when they are in the class of four or five students, instead of the six so far. The next allegation, the claim, that the school is sacred to the parents of children who are enrolled, that it keeps them locked and wet, that classrooms are reduced and upgraded, that children, students, have little space, that classrooms have six meters square. According to complaints from parents at school, the city’s educational inspection, which controlled working conditions and living in school, came. It is a record that has been established that the school is taking all measures to improve the living and working conditions of the students. There's absolutely no way to talk about a school being consecrated by children. Of course, there are always things that can be improved, but there's no way that the things that have been said in this letter are happening. During the summer, the school renovated the room, the toilets. In the last school year, 11 classrooms and gyms were arranged through an action involving numerous social companies. Three other classrooms were arranged this year. The size of the classroom is between 17 and 36 square meters. Of course, all of this can be checked both in fact and in conversation with the parents. The next finding is that parents don't have toys. The school indicates that the didactic material has been provided as much as possible. Obviously not to a sufficient extent, but to the extent that school can make it possible. Of course it can be better. However, it should be mentioned that the school itself funded a sensory room project, has two interactive tables, a digital cabinet of 10 computers, subscription to several children's magazines, teachers make their own worksheets and all that can be teaching help. Lastly, the school is said to have no room for an extended stay. The extended stay school organizes for all children from first to eighth grade, given their needs and their condition. The extended stay takes place in classrooms where regular classes are held. There is also a gym for the physical and large courtyard of the school. For all school students, transportation from house to school and back has been organised with one bus and three vans covering the territory of the whole city of Belgrade. The extended stay was organised until 15.00 hours, as the majority of the surveyed parents decided, although at the beginning of the school year the school director created an organization and the possibility for the extended stay to 1600 hours. All of this says that the entire staff of the school is working in the interest of the students. Employees engage outside of working hours, in work activities, in order to enable children to go beyond teaching activities and improve the quality of life. There is information here that "Youtube" can see a video, which has been done by the Delta Company at the Anton Skalla elementary school of Belgrade, which was attended by numerous artists with the aim of helping these children achieve their maximum capacity together. Mrs. Comic, you'll get an answer for Bosko Buha School. Thank you for your kindness to advance these questions so that I can answer these statements today. The claims do not match the content of the questions asked. I'm looking forward to it, but I'm also calling on other parents to arrange a visit to the school if they suspect what I read here today as information I received from my employees and from an educational inspection. For the next school, we'll deliver the information later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2894	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2895	Thank you. I was also going to ask you an additional question regarding the same area, but also one question for the others present. However, I have given up on the reason why I do not wish to participate in the will of the Prime Minister to abuse the position of Prime Minister, to threaten political parties with sentences – I will already reveal everything I have about you, as I do not wish to share in the view that dialogue when I am alone talking and then these three minutes serves as an illustration of what it looks like when I am alone talking and when we are witnesses that Minister Dinkic is untrue and of Vojvodina, and of the way the Vojvodina is financed, and of the law, and of the lack of law on the financing of Vojvodina, and of non-compliance with the Constitution. In particular, it is a matter of honor and humanity, which everyone chooses for themselves, whether you want to participate in the dialogue when from the post of Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, so from the position of power, when it comes to MPs, abuses the name of MPs, and that it is known that the MP has no right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor has he the right to direct the replica, as was the case with Parliament MP Balint Pastor, or the mention of the president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Pastor. When and if we understand that the Prime Minister is here to answer the questions of the MPs, however unpleasant it is, then we will understand that if you want us to spend three hours here by convincing the public in the performance of two months, forgetting that we have wished you all from this bench success in those affairs leading to Serbia's progress, and especially if you want to convince anyone in the team spirit of government, it would help to be convincing if all the parliamentary groups who voted for you were to applaud you. You can't see it on TV, you can see it, but we can see it here, so it would help a lot to have all the parliamentary groups who voted for this government applaud all the representatives of the government. It gives effect, as it would be good for the atmosphere in this assembly to send a decent apology, I know that you have, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, no matter what their address is, there is a difference, they have no power and you have, you are the Prime Minister. The sooner you understand what kind of responsibility it will be, the better it will be for everyone and the next last Thursday we will really spend talking about monitoring and controlling what the Prime Minister and Minister are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2896	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2897	I'm glad Mrs. Comic remembered this when she just went to the MPs' benches. Your tendency to democracy and tolerance as you chaired this House is well known. So I hope you'll practice it now in the opposition. I don't know how I did it or who I threatened. Who was I threatening? Do you think I came here just to listen to your attacks without answering? I didn't come for a monologue. As far as I'm concerned, you can talk as much as you want, you don't have to take three minutes. As far as I'm concerned, we can work all night. As far as I'm concerned, we can work every day, but you're not here, Mrs. Comic. Where's the Democratic Party? I can't say I miss him, but I just can't believe the DS is expressing solidarity with the DSS, but, well, anything is possible. In doing so, I have not offended anyone at all, I have conducted political dialogue. I just asked them to apologize to me for the lies they made about me. Just because you're an MP and have immunity doesn't mean you can lie. You may lie about the economic situation, you may lie that the situation was best at the time of your government, but you can't lie about someone's personality. I've had a proper relationship with you and I, and we've worked together so far. It's just that I'm not in favor of those you've been working with all of a sudden being the worst in the world right now. You know, because of you, I didn't make a coalition with the SRS and the DSS. Now that we have formed a coalition with the SNS, now your president says – Dacic has betrayed us. Wait, please, I'm not a member of the DS. Who did I betray? He says -- he had an ambition for the SPS to have a prime minister. No, we're going to have an ambition for you to have a prime minister. Right? I think they're gonna applaud me for that, too. Right? There's unity. In any case, I want to end it, because I don't know how long this will take, to say it, you saw, this is the second Thursday that we've been coming, my directive and the order that all ministers, except for those who are officially absent, will be when parliamentary matters are, or when issues are addressed to the government. It's the last Thursday of the month. As far as we're concerned, that's how it's gonna be until the last day of this government's work. We have nothing to hide from you. We are not like the previous governments that were afraid to come to parliament. I can't wait. I was born here politically. This is the highest authority in Serbia. So, just get ready for the discussion, don't be offended. I respect that remark, if I have offended someone, I apologize, but I also expect those who have made a false apology, because I do not think it is useful for political life in Serbia. I want to thank you all for participating in this session. I'm sure we should also regulate this issue, because I'm like a man with experience in parliament talking longer because you don't have as many restrictions as a government official can speak. Next time you write to the Rules of Procedure, write it yourself. You wrote it yourself, what you wrote, that's what you got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2898	The word came from Mr Dinkic and Mrs Comic at the end of two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2899	Indeed only briefly, since you repeated what Mr. Jovanovic was saying earlier, and perhaps you weren't in the O.R. when I gave the answer. Namely, I ask the question – why has no law on the financing of Vojvodina been passed so far? Was I the finance minister until two months ago or was it Mirko Cvetkovic from DS? Why didn't he bring it? Was I the head of the province government or was he and is now Bojan Pajtic from your party? Why wasn't that law passed and why wasn't it passed? You had absolute support from the U.S.S. to pass that law. We're now ready at the Ministry of Finance and Business, if you don't want to write it down, let's write it ourselves. I think it's the turn, if we're fighting for decentralisation, that the province itself proposes that law. If you don't do it by the end of this year, we will propose it, we from the Ministry of Finance and Business, because I want all regions in Serbia, and Vojvodina, but also southern Serbia, as well as eastern and western ones to have equal chances. Never your colleagues who were in charge of it, not you, you're a MP, very respected, never did it. Don't protect someone who didn't do his job. If they are fighting for the interest of the people of Vojvodina, I guess the goal is to talk to us about building a highway together from Novi Sad via Ruma, down to Loznica, with a tunnel through Fruska Gora. That is exactly what the Prime Minister and I want to propose to Mr Pajtic, not to throw taxpayers' money to cover the loss of the Vojvodina Development Bank, which is a political bank. Did any of the businessmen of Vojvodina, who were on the market, benefit from that development bank? Did any of the citizens benefit from that bank or privileged people who were close to your strangers, through whom you also funded the campaign? That's what you published. So instead of giving nine billion dinars to the Vojvodina Development Bank, instead of the Alliance of Vojvodian Hungarians saying – that was wrong, we want money instead of covering political losses to invest in roads, to renovate infrastructure, to make a good highway from Zrenjanin to Novi Sad, to support what the Republic government is doing, to "Bos" build a factory in the Caves, the largest company in the area of auto-component production, to support us by bringing one of the biggest investors from Finland to Zrenjanin, to support us that a producer from the USA will come to produce 500 workers. So, to support us to develop Vojvodina, not to engage in politics, to resent us, to blame me for not being a finance minister, why I did not pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina and if it was the jurisdiction of Mirko Cvetkovic. I'll bring it now, if you want. I think he's necessary, to define exactly what rights and obligations are. I think, however, that is not enough, I am personally headed by a political option which, apart from Vojvodina, should exist other regions in Serbia and be equal to Vojvodina, that the whole of Serbia is developing together. But it is your responsibility that this Budgetary System Act is not denied to the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, that the budget for next year will be allocated to more money in the name of the Vojvodina transfer, but in this year, and that this money will be used better, because it will indeed go towards the development of Vojvodina, not to cover political losses. Finally, to take the opportunity to inform all the MPs, that just a few minutes ago, the issue of the bonds of the Republic of Serbia was completed, i.e. the re-opening of the existing emissions. We were thinking about selling about $750 million on our paper, bought by investors from abroad. However, the demand was more than four times the bid. Over $4 billion was an offer for a Serbian Eurobond, it did not happen so often this year when other countries broadcast. This allowed us to knock down the price, so that the contribution on our bond at closing 6,625 compared to 7.5 how long it was when the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic broadcast the bond at the beginning of this year. So, at 7.5%, we've knocked it down to 6.6%. Almost one percentage point, in a situation where our standard "and pur" rating agency took down a credit rating at the very beginning of the government's mandate and later on, the FIC. What's he saying? It says that investor confidence in the work of the new government exists. Personally, on the next show, I think we'll make an even lower contribution, or lower interest. About 200 investors participated here today. Most investors from the United Kingdom and the United States. So we provided at the end a billion dollars, we sold more than we originally planned, because the price was lower than what was expected and we thought it was favourable. But in the coming weeks, our government will create a fiscal consolidation plan that will bring down the budget deficit, which will reduce the need for borrowing in the coming period, and go to public debt. I think the good news is that it is likely to be more commented by analysts abroad than by citizens of Serbia, because I know that they simply do not go into these things with too much detail. This is one good signal that the government is going in the right direction, but I'm sure we can do much better and we'll do it in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2900	National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2901	Don't everybody applaud again? The habit of answering a question that isn't asked shows two things. The first thing I care about is what you ask me, I'm on TV at 7:00, and I want to say what I have. Which cuts the whole idea around these three hours, but that's your right. It's bad for everyone, it's a loss for both the ruling majority and the opposition, it's a loss for you personally, but it's gonna have to take time to learn all that. When you answer what no one asks you, then the second probability is that you don't know the answer you've been asked, to get it as a question. However, I will repeat that, as far as DS is concerned, there is no procedure, there is no vote and there is no procedure to prevent us from being supportive of Serbia's European change and of the crisis in Serbia, in our society and the country that is waiting for us and waiting for us. As no one will stop us from defending the rule of law. It cannot depend on the political will whether the Prime Minister will yell at MPs, threaten MPs, say what he wants as his political tribune. It can't depend on political will. It's not the rule of law. That depends on what's written in Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is your will to interpret it by reporting to one MP and speaking for two hours and 45 minutes by the Prime Minister. No one can stop you from doing that. The problem is that none of it can be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-09-27-0.u2902	Thank you. Since I see that there is a clear will to bring together MPs and ask questions with the Government this way, I will propose that in this term we bring a new Rules of Procedure where we will allow it on more frequent occasions, and of course the Rules of Procedure, as it is, did not limit the time for the members of the Government to respond and they can use their right to do so. I am pleased that the Prime Minister and members of the government have attended a large number this time, and I hope that such a practice will be in the future. Since the time is up, before we close the session, I'd like to remind you that we'll have a vote in ten minutes. There is a session of the Administrative Board, and I have amendments to some of the members of parliament, so I'm asking you to come to the vote in ten minutes. Thank you for your participation. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs attend the session of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system in the hall, 132 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementarys of Higher Education Laws. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 11 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you: that the MPs pulled together by written means of the amendment: Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić and Ružica Igić on Article 6 and Marjan Rističević on Article 6. Five and seven. The bill proposed that an integral part of the bill became an amendment that was submitted to Article 5 jointly by MPs Ruzica Igic, Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. The People's MPs Svetislav Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korac and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, v - one, abstention - one, 142 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Ivan Karic and joint MPs Svetislav Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Zarko Korac and Miljenko Dereta. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 149 out of the 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment with the correction, the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic Markovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Ruzica Igic together submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 137 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 137 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 143 out of the 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 148 out of the 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 136 out of the 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 8th. The bill envisions that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 194(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Republic of Serbia laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – two, abstention – one, five of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted eight out of the 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Higher Education. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, or agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on mutual recognition of the replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 8 out of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on social security, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual representation in providing consular protection and services in third countries, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 5 out of the 146 MPs, for – 141 against. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012.
