ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66116	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine precisely the number of Members present in the room, I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I figure we're 97 in the O.R. right now, so there's working conditions. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Mladen Grujic. I'd like to inform you that I'm in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for meetings, in addition to the representatives of the promoters, and representatives of the motions are Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Dr. Oliver Dulic, Ms. Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, Attending and Nemanja Komazac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Goran Radosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Dusan Nikezić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dusan Mrakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Dr. Radoslav Tomašević, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy, Jagoda Jelic, Assistant Minister of Justice, Mihajlo Gavrić, Director of the Department for the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia. We continue to work and move on the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the General Bank of Serbia, Erste GCIB Finance and B.V. Amsterdam, Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade and AIK Bank, a.d. Nis by Galenika a.d. Belgrade, which was submitted by the Government Dear People's MPs, received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Zoran Krasic and Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Vladan Jeremic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Martinović, Nemanja Sarović and Boris Aleksic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have expressed our position regarding all these duties in the principle of debate and in principle all these amendments that we have submitted to certain laws in this set want to express their position to confirm it, that this is completely devastating, that this is completely irrational and that the Republic of Serbia will certainly not be able to finance and repay such loans and such borrowings in the very near future. The fact that Serbia is in fiscal and monetary terms on glass legs looks best at the value of dinars which have been falling drastically these past few days. The dinar falls as a result of the outpouring of the exchange precisely because of the fact that our commitments to abroad come and grow every day. On the other hand, banks in the Republic of Serbia, according to certain criteria, are returning money to their queens because their queens in the countries from which they come want to preserve the stability of the financial system. All of this as your geniuses, European value carers, you know very well, but you don't mind burdening your own country a billion and a half euros more, again to make it through the next year. Of course, you will certainly inherit this money by May of the month. After May of the month, I hope you will no longer be able to spend it, but you will certainly not only in front of voters but also in front of the competent state authorities to account for everything you've done, and these credits as well. This is very tied up and very interesting precisely for a loan that's on the agenda, which is a loan relating to Galenika. We've been given an explanation that says the country's drug sales have fallen. The nation is getting sicker, both chronically and acutely, and the drug sales are dropping. What's illogical about it, Minister, or the people won't be treated or there's no money or there's something being produced somewhere? It is further said – the inability to collect claims, the company's liquidity, the company's ability to service its obligations within the deadline. It still stands - debts are estimated at 90m euros. So, the leadership of the Galenika Public Enterprise, the leadership of the government that you have chosen, is making debts of 90m euros in the company. Watch this sentence – the problem of payment of claims is only temporarily solved by extremely expensive short-term borrowings. We ask these experts from European Serbia, who sit across the street from the SRS and politically and ideologically, to explain how the Galenika claim was resolved by its own borrowing. It would be nice for some genius economist to explain it. What's the problem is, it's the fact that this borrowing problem of looking for "Gelenika" won't solve it, and that's what we told you in the principle debate. Open the discussion to build mechanisms to which "Gelenika" will collect its claims, not how it is most easy for irresponsible and unconscious politicians to beat a new loan on the cost of the state of Galenika, so some new director will be in charge, to sit in that position, to pay pharmaceutical advances to the white companies, to get the goods for these bills as scheduled a year later, etc. You're not solving anything with this loan, at least you're solving Galenika's indifference. You put out a gas fire that will keep burning and burn down our pharmaceutical industry. We ask you, since in the campaign you will boast about your results that have been left behind, how is it possible that Galenici owes RZO? Where's the money? Why do the Republic institutions not settle their obligations to public enterprises whose country is the founder? At least it's easy for you to do. It's a company founded by the state and controlled by the state. If you can't regulate the debts of private companies to the state, according to public enterprises, because you and the courts don't function, and the executions can't be charged, we ask you, why doesn't the health fund settle its obligations? Because poor rich people don't pay taxes or contributions. I'm not saying these little ones, they're being cornered, they've got nowhere to come from. But insurance doesn't pay the ones who do, it's the money they pay. By carrying out that money, the state falls into a problem with inflation and course, etc. What you're doing is devastating for both the state and the citizens. And instead of keeping accounts today of what you've been doing all these days and months and years in Galenika to solve a real problem, you're here telling a story that the state should guarantee 70m euros to a company that operates with losses. Well, how are you not ashamed? You who swear on European principles and you who swear on market principles and economics or the welfare state. This is a disgrace, and we sincerely hope that you will get one political slap in May. In May, the state must get an answer to all this political indiscriminateness and these political bahanalia created in your direction of political unconsciousness and political irresponsibility. The state expects after May elections to respond to all these challenges. You are neither capable nor credible to give them, and you have shown it in your four-year term, and it is not a sin to say in the last 10 years. We have no intention of supporting this, and we will strongly condemn this, because the public has the right to know what kind of political vermin you are and what economic vermin you are when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66118	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66119	Madam President, honourable ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would only like to state my position on this amendment and other amendments as well. A set of these laws has been submitted about 60 amendments and any amendment that targets a concrete member of any law requires that member to be deleted, with an identical copy - paste explanation that a concrete law is harmful to Serbia's financial interests, that it leads to a new task, etc. I want to make a point, first of all, that I believe that it is not the opposition fellow's intention to obstruct the work, or to use the same argument they had in the principle debate. Through these amendments, the amendments from the SRS parliamentary group and the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, provide an identical argument to the one that was in the principle debate. Therefore, given that the session of the Committee, whose chairman itself has not yet been concluded, we have had different interpretations on the Committee whether these amendments should be rejected, rejected or assessed as legally possible, we have taken the view that most of the amendments are legally possible and can be discussed, but I wanted to share this opinion with you fellow Members of Parliament. I wish the applicants of the amendment were on the Committee. We have a situation where, in particular, the debate re-emerges a principled attitude. For example, the absurdity of the situation is sought by the wipers of Article 1 of the concrete law. Article 1 regulates the subject matter, i.e. legal matter, which is further discussed with other members – without the subject of the law, the law cannot exist, nor can the draft law. The last member is requested to be deleted, so a member of the law that regulates when a concrete law enters into force – eight days or the next day since the publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Once again, I want to believe that opposition colleagues have no intention of obstructing Parliament's work, or to repeat, that by abuseing the procedural possibility of submitting amendments, they are re-emphasizing the same argument that was made in the principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66120	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66121	Mr. Ratkovic, while you're still here, we're really sorry we didn't ask you what amendments to be submitted to you. (President: Do not address the MP. He won't mind, we're colleagues. I really apologize to most of you for not asking you what amendments we should submit to you when it is not an obstruction of Parliament. We are obstructing parliament that you may be sitting here with an hour or two, and you will put 100m euros on the head of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And now you're smart, nice, democratically-oriented, overwhelmed by the need to respect procedures, and we're here with obstructive work. I don't have any words. What we're going to do and the coffees we're going to endure, that's our thing. The amendments submitted are absolutely with the Rules of Procedure and absolutely respect the procedure that the Rules of Procedure foresee. The fact that you don't like them, that maybe you, individuals, swallow the fact that you're going to vote for something that doesn't make any sense, that's your problem. You handle this on your main committees and on party forums. The public needs to hear whether in principle, whether in the debate on details, what kind of a report, crime is behind all this. Instead of solving it, you're obliging our generations to pay for someone's incompetence and political responsibility. Tell us, gentlemen of the congregation why the Galenica lacks money, why has the number of employees increased as much as it is? Why are contracts made the way they are? That's what you need to tell the public, not to remind us of the MPs of the procedure. After all, there's a speaker in this room who owes it. But this is how we expressed our political position that these bill proposals that the state will additionally owe a billion and a half euros are sick, that they are not good and that many countries will cost. Perhaps new economic experts can understand that, graduate economists like this European Tomislav Nikolic, but there is no understanding in the SRS. So let us do our job and explain to the citizens where the money Galenika has wasted over the past four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66122	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66123	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a replacement of thesis because, above all, all our amendments are intended and it is written in each of our amendments – the termination of the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the point of our amendments, and it says here that fiscal discipline or discipline adopted by the ruling majority in the Budgetary System Act should be respected, therefore, that percentage of 45% of the public debt relative to GDP. What's the big deal now? These are our arguments, and we as an opposition party that is against the EU, which is against the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, have the right to submit such an argumentary amendment, or to submit such a good amendment, as fellow Stevanovic has submitted. If we're going to lie and say it's not a big debt from the Republic of Serbia, then we should admit that Tomislav Nikolic is a master of economic science, we all know that he is not and that there is no telling what he is. So, we can replace the burdens infinitely, but this is about economic arguments, legal arguments and, simply, our right as an opposition party that is against the EU today, which we will show at 1200 hours, is to submit amendments that are against the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, under the phrase that the EU has no alternative. If four billion euros is given every year only to repay the foreign debt, we are against it. We believe that money should be directed towards health care, welfare, education and our pensioners. That's our goal. We are against it, that the relationship between public debt and GDP is like in the EU – 80%, we want to have standards like in the Russian Federation, that this debt is about 12%. We are against the EU, against the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and such deceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66124	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66125	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this amendment should be rejected. When we talk about respecting procedures, the whole world, including Europe just a month and a half ago, watched the tragedy of a big ocean ship called Costa Concordi, which sank near the coast of Italy. The first thing the captain said when he came to the mainland was – I only respected the procedure. You see, the captains of our titanics just respect the procedure, in order to submit amendments that have no purpose at all. Which is an explanation for these amendments. We first heard that Serbia was getting sicker and that it was using more and more drugs. Last time in the debate, I was talking about a strange disease called amnesia. It doesn't hurt much, but there's something new every day. The cure for amnesia is not in Galennica, nor in the pharmacy, but here, upstairs, in the congregation library. The congregation library contains something called the 2000 statistical yearbook. It says that the SRS left this country with a 120% of GDP debt when it was in power. Of course, there must be an immediate question – gentlemen who are so concerned with Serbia today, so where was your current economic brains? Where was your love for Serbia when you were in power? Who stopped you from loving Serbia at the time? Show us the name of that impertinent. Shame on him. You could have one creative economic swing to show, to show all economic intelligence, economic logic, knowledge, profession, education. Is it possible that only 17 pensions were owed to Serbian pensioners? Is it possible that the leader of your party said inflation, it's something normal to you. You've got 100 dinars in your pocket, then we've got 70% inflation, and you don't have 100 dinars in your pocket anymore, but you've got 30. But you have to pay the price of our economic policy. It's your economic policy. Don't worry about health care in this country. He's making progress in health care. You throw away, the vet doesn't move so fast. Health is progressing, don't worry. The wind's a little slower, but there'll be opportunities to make progress. But when we talk about it, will the government spend this money? The government won't spend this money. This money will be spent by Serbian citizens. It's not pre-election money. It is not money to be spent on pre-election purposes, but money to be spent by the government and citizens of this country in the next term. It's not money that's being channeled into pre-election activities. It is not money that is being held in such a way that this task will go for the survival of the ruling majority. It is a task for the survival of Serbia. The money we borrow, we don't borrow to print our leader's party books. We don't borrow that money to rent the Master's building. We borrow that money to make the highway from Cack to Belgrade, because we believe that the citizens of Cacka have the right to travel on the highway. We believe the citizens of Gornji Milanovac have the right to the highway. We believe that money will never be presented, that responsibility, because when these jobs are done, it will be presented in a way – here we have done to you. We did it the minute we opened the wallet and made it. But it was done by the state of Serbia, and that money will not be misused. When you talk about spending that money for survival in power, for European integration, for the sake of love for the EU, first tell the citizens of Serbia what you did when you were in power, how much debt you left, how many pensions you didn't pay, how many child benefits you didn't pay, and then tell us who stopped you. Finally, when you accuse us of love for the EU, I must tell you - Europe today, but Serbia is forever, unlike those who are neither for Europe nor for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66126	National MP Dragan Stevanovic, as an authorised representative, has the advantage. No, you're not an authorised representative, I apologize. Before you go, Dejan Mirovic has not answered. Mr. Krasic, before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66127	Did I get my turn? Okay. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, just to warn you about what you heard here – Galenka does not sabotage the way to Cačka. You didn't follow up on the previous exhibit. For four years, the amendments have been very nice, because there is no better combination of words to describe a member's bad text than to intervene with the amendment "expect". When it is said "wipe" it should be erased from the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Still, Galenika should exist because of the drugs. You see, they answer for themselves. However, it is said - amendments should be rejected, not acceptable, deleted etc... (President: Mr. Krassic, just don't get mad at the beats afterwards.) ( b) What kind of an extremity? What kind of bow? Have you read Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's opinion? Look at that. Secondly, why do you abuse my name in twenty places in this opinion? All the amendments you refused, you refused for a reason, because we refused Krasic's amendment to the first term. What kind of way is that? What's your argument? You reject the amendment for Zoran Krasic. What's the government's position? Imagine what you wrote in this explanation – the amendment, and you can say the amendment, are not accepted for the reason "Gallenika" is a.d. Belgrade due to the decline in drug sales. The drop is selling drugs. Wait, if the drug deal goes down, then the purchase of what? If she's been selling drugs, it means she's in need of medication. Right? So you're producing drugs that can't be sold. It's made for supplies. That's how it works out. That's how you wrote it here. Then Galenika became incomparable because of the indifference of the wholesalers with the drugs. These really geniuses can come up with, experts like the one from the White Ship, masters of economists, new-roasted. As soon as the master economists, the newly-roasted waters of the country, that's how it is. Why don't we say who's been in charge of the Galenics all these years? You don't know? You who are in the coalition don't know, and I know from the opposition. The man who destroyed all the companies where he was the director. Firenovic, what was it like? Yeah, now these SPS guys are talking and they don't know who he is. Well, their tub. Wherever he entered the company, he shut down the company. The natural consequence or legality of such an expert master, Bologna, is a disaster. Who did he set up? You see there in the government that party, why? Who was the chairman of the board of directors, so who was on the board of directors? One of the MPs, when he goes to the assembly, first comes to Galenika to come to... Okay, so he comes here? We all know that, my people. Now, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you as taxpayers, thanks to pro-European politics, this is a European standard, for God's sake, you know, a European standard, take as much as you want. And who's gonna pay? They're all paying. And who's taking it? Just some. This is Europe. That's why it's important to talk about Europe, that a small number of people make money on the story of Europe, and that most of them cramp in debt. He's cramping in debt. What have you solved with the master economists, the Bologna, at the head of the Galenika? Did someone go to jail? Is there a procedure? So how is it possible? Look out, there's been a sale of Galenika drugs. How's that, then? What are you treating people for? So, today, if you want to get better, you have to have money, you have to pay the doctor, you have to have money for medicine. If you don't have the money, choose the weeds, but don't mess it up, they have the toxic ones. That's how it works out. And Galenika 70 million will be in debt to come up with a positive zero. Positive zeroes, the bright future of the EU. Now tell me how it got into this situation. Remember Galenika, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, remember Milan Panic, so remember those five-eyed changes, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, when they burned the Assembly, your coalition collectors. Just before they whispered on Slobodan Milosevic, you kept your mouth shut, you chatted, you don't care. Everything was bad, everything's wrong, it's still not good because of Milosevic, do you understand? It is not good because Milosevic is still a spokesman for Milosevic's Ivica Dacic and the vice president of Milosevic's Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. There, did you hear what he said? When he tells you, that's what Barack Obama tells you right now. You see that this is the biggest DS dialogue, the only one who is patiently fighting for EU positions in Serbia, these others are hardworking and leaving the session, etc. He's got the poor one to burn here. It's gonna burn. Enough to get Mickey Rakic on the phone, it's right from the State Department, here it is, there it is described. They're your coalition partners. We even hit the color, see? Yellow. And paint hit. So you remember, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in 2000, who was breaking into Galenika? Dude. What do you think of going back to the amendment? I'm not talking about paveding across the Galenika, as my predecessor used to say. He was talking about the law regarding Galenika – citizens of Chačka like to have asphalt to Cačka and you are delighted to accept it. I agree, but why do you hate this when I mention it, since I remember a little bit what happened to Galenika? Since 1992 Milan Panic, that cyclist, and then Batic when he came with those of his own, so did he return to Galenika, so he did not return, so who took, so what he took, and there was a state firm, and it was good, so whether he would go to privatisation, so whether he would not go to privatisation, so why is it strategically important, so this, and so on. I've been telling you since 1992, but come on, everything has been the worst since 2000. You know those little Chinese drugs were ugly back then, in 2000. Remember? Now Chinese drugs are the best. They were ugly back then. It says – very small, made for small people. What did Tadic say? "Little children." Then they puked on Russia when it was said, China – vomiting to them, yuck, England, France, Germany, it's all a prosperous world. What black Russia? Now I see, when someone becomes a master economist, and we don't know how that man became a master economist, two years ago he was a graduate lawyer at a board meeting, now a master economist. Tell me where that gutter is so we can go get a degree, maybe hit something. I hear Grock's got an out-of-town ward. When you get those experts to run your country, you know what's going on? This is exactly what's happening. So now 70 million, you will now, at the end of this term, with 70m euros in debt to the citizens of Serbia to survive Galenika. What happened to today, as it is now said, is that we will reset it, as you have reset 68 billion debts to local self-government units by amending the Local Self-Government Financing Act. Is that what happened? You would do anything to reset, reset this, reset it, most importantly, if it were a blind picture of the EU, about the beautiful Kata. That's the most important thing. Master? [[Louds from the bench: Who's that?]] That's, they say, this Tomislav Nikolic. You didn't hear that? Americans say you bought a diploma, Mrs. Djukic. (President: Please enter some seriousness into your address. I'd like to ask you, don't insult the American embassy. I'm allowed, you're not. (President: Make a deal with your colleagues. ) Americans wrote – bought a diploma. He's going to run a state with a bought degree, an economist's master. What are you talking to me about? Read some books. It's not my fault you weren't informed. You get information and qualify to talk to me. Now put the state in debt for 70m euros. For what? Because of the SPS personnel and others. Bruca and shame. Of course every amendment has to be deleted. Everything has to be erased for what the DS has done, if this people want to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66128	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66129	I thank Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last half-hour is the story of whether the amendments are legally possible and that the entire opposition has submitted amendments with the text - is deleted. It's not true, because our amendments and amendments to one of the laws are not like that, but they are amendments that are exactly making some amendments and supplementing the proposed text of the law. When it comes to the Legislative Committee, it is very interesting that the Legislative Committee did not deal with the need or general legal basis to discuss these laws. How? A year and a half ago, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Budgetary System Act. The draft law, Article 92, established the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council has an obligation to give estimates, as an independent body that directly corresponds to the National Assembly, very credible because it is composed of three members. According to one member of the Fiscal Council, the president of the Republic of Serbia, NBS Governor and Finance Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are proposing. The body is independent and delivers reports on fiscal policy to the National Assembly, on compliance with fiscal rules. Very strict rules have been laid out. That's what we talked about when the law was debated in the Serbian Parliament. We can discuss whether 45% is a good limit or not for public debt, but the Fiscal Council has warned the public and the National Assembly that public debt has been breached and that public debt has crossed the legal limit in the way it was defined by the Budgetary System Act. The Budgetary System Act provides that in a situation where a public debt limit is breached, the government must urgently deliver measures to the National Assembly to recover public debt under control, or below the 45% limit. The fiscal council argues that the border has been breached, that public debt is far greater in the way it is calculated and warns that the methodology is not good either, that it is far greater than it should be. The fiscal council warned us that the limit of public debt had been breached. We got absolutely no word from the government that public debt would go below the 45% limit. With these 13 laws, the debt is about 1.5 billion euros. A billion and a half euros is 5% public debt. Not only does the government not inform us that public debt will drop below 45%, but it suggests 13 laws that are being discussed today, with which public debt is growing by another 5%. I ask the President of the Assembly that the Legislative Committee take a position, because I think it is an important issue, as well as that the Legislative Committee gives notice to the National Assembly. Don't let us break the laws the way the government violates them. This is in line with the Law on Budgetary Systems and this is our obligation when forming a fiscal council.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66130	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66131	Since we are accused of suffering from amnesia here, I would just like to remind my colleagues who have resented it that in the upcoming campaign, we will really convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or remind them of everything that has been happening to them in the last 10 years, and that we are denying attitudes to suffer from amnesia. Maybe some of your coalition partners are suffering from amnesia, so they're reluctant to listen to stories about the '90s, which can basically be burdened with them, but they won't react. That doesn't mean they're suffering from amnesia, but because of the chairs they have, the positions they're having right now and love with you won't react and won't say anything. I have one more thing to say, which may not be directly related to this law I'm talking about today. I am proud of every printed book of my leader, every written and signed word. The fact that some don't have writing leaders, have document signing leaders who exclusively publish themselves in the Official Messenger, and are usually at the expense of Serbian national interests, is their handicap and do not touch the man who confirmed his authority and reputation in the Belgrade arena on Saturday. He'll come and then you'll look into his eyes. For everything you've done to him, he'll come and you'll be able to tell him what you want to tell him. Mr. Milivojevic, gentlemen of the congregation majority, you have now said that health care is progressing. I ask you, where did the debts of the Republic Health Service towards Galenica come from? That's why you're taking credit, because that advanced health care owes Galenika. Do you know, Mr Milivojevic, how many in the Republic Health System in Serbia do you have employees of non-contracted doctors? The minister said tens of thousands a few days ago. Do you know, Mr. Milivojevic, how much money is owed to doctors in the name of overtime, duty, which even through court disputes can't happen? Are the top achievements of Serbian health vaccines for flu or perhaps an affair with cytostatics that you can't produce because you destroyed Galenika by robbery, not by the fact that the state doesn't have the mechanisms to collect Galenika's claims? Are these the achievements of health care, the health system? No one in the SRS here has said that the nation is ill, but statistics show that the most severe diseases grow year after year. Growth, Mr. Milivojevic, because your friends, EU fascists, bombed us in 1999, dispersed Serbia's poor uranium. Because we were held in economic and political sanctions. They have defended us from dealing adequately with Serbia. They're your friends. As long as Serbia has such friends, it doesn't need enemies. Not the government of the Republic of Serbia to spend this money, but to boast in Galennica. That's the problem. It is not known what is worse, whether it is spent by the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic, or spent by his public enterprises. We ask you where is the guarantee in this law that the claims will be charged? You know what this is? What kind of help is this to Galenika? One bizarre example I'm going to give a parallel. It's like when parents find out their kid's a junkie, so instead of being treated for drugs, they give him some money to buy a new dope when he's in an abstinent crisis. It is you, it is your policy, but you do not mind touching Vojislav Seselj, whom you have not institutionally mentioned in your political accident and shame for nine years. You should be ashamed when you take his name in your mouth, especially his books. But the time will come, I repeat, when in that sense you will look yourself in the eye, very quickly, there is, so that you can tell him what you have to say, that not only do Americans write about you, what you are, who you are and what you are. As far as this loan is concerned, it won't solve anything, it'll prolong the agony. Whatever the SRS thinks of that pagan IMF, they don't understand and spit on you either. They broke the smelly arrangement with Serbia, put it on the stand by, because you're not bound by law and you can't respect it. So what do we think of you? No one from the IMF will repay one single cent of this loan, it will be returned by my children and yours. Now, whose return will be easier, so do you and I. They don't have money in the Galennica, not in the Colubara, not here, not there, not with the vaccines, and you're going on an adventure. Instead of arresting him, you're sending him to the World Health Organization. How can you not be ashamed? You're giving us lessons like the amendments we've written. I hope, Mr Milivojevic, I don't speak to you personally, I am speaking to DS, G17, the SPS, to everyone holding this majority, it will last until May, and after May, Serbia will get answers that represent the courage to deal with it. One more thing, in the principle debate, we're in favor of isolation and war. If Serbia's citizens decide on 6 May to make decisions, we will enter the war on May 7th with crime, with corruption, with hopelessness, with the chaos you left in the state and in a society that resembles everything but state and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66132	National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66133	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is the fact that people who follow this transmission are not confused because they know that this is one of the last, if not the last meeting of the National Assembly, and that MPs are using their opportunity to send messages to their voters, to convince them of what they think they should believe. However, it was really incorrect for the people who chose us to remain silent and not to say about what is not true and what has been said in these few minutes, or almost an hour as far as the debate on this amendment is going on, which I believe should be rejected, or rejected, because in any case it brings nothing new, nothing good. I think it is necessary to help Galenika, to help a pharmaceutical company that produces drugs in a quality way, which works and develops science, improves its production, which is in difficulty. But not only does it need to protect jobs and knowledge they have acquired in some way and which they have verified, protected, but it also needs to be helped to produce medicines in Serbia. We don't need, if we don't have to, to import drugs, Mr. Krasic, neither from China nor Russia, I don't know from where, we need to make medicine in Serbia because we've been doing it well for many years, until there's a time that we all well know who's responsible for which our industry has failed and the pharmaceutical industry. Since at the beginning of this debate we started from today's euro course and since the euro course was one of the topics of almost all the sessions in the days when the euro rate grew, and it wasn't the subject of the days when the euro fell, I took advantage of a syntagma and called my time some MPs from the opposition to the disasterers, who use a pay phone only for bad news, when the dinar course fell publically, when the flood, when the snow fell, the sun came, to inform the citizens that the government was responsible for it. The euro rate relative to the courses last year at this time is about the same, slightly higher and you haven't told us in the past year when the dinar was strengthening about it. You did not mention, of course, the fact that Serbia is one of the few countries in the region, including Europe, which last year had a growth of social gross product, that it was one of the few countries, I would dare say the only one in the region, which had a drastic increase in exports, a reduction in imports, a leader in foreign investment and that they did not stop, neither will this year nor in the coming years, and that Serbia will certainly after the candidacy, which it will receive, hopefully tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, continue to be a leader in attracting foreign investment, and that not only drugs will be produced here, but also cars and high-end technology, such as dumped products, grunphos, etc. and other world-famous producers, which Serbia appears to be a good place to invest. We need to take care of big systems like Galenika, as we are taking care of both national interests and the KIM, which you mention, from whom DS and the coalition that is leading has not given up, for which we are fighting by all means, we have told calmly, as well as for all other national interests. You heard, probably, last night, President Tadic, who spoke very clearly and openly about how he views the position of minority communities in Serbia, the position of national minorities, and that we will not suffer any blackmail, or at the cost of the post, or EU candidacy. Clearly, some red lines can't be crossed. In that sense, I believe that citizens recognize today's discussion of opposition MPs and the story of masters, or as you have said to similar ones, which are likely to be spoken of today. I don't mind. It's probably gonna be campaign items, but it's just not the subject of today's law, but I couldn't help answering you the same way you said, because you did start off with things that talk about a state of hopelessness. I think that Serbia is not in a state of hopelessness, that Serbia has gone through a difficult period with all the countries in Europe and in the world in one, we could say a way that it has come out of this crisis quite stable, that we have not had national earthquakes or social earthquakes, but of course we recognize that people are hard to live and that only work, order and fact that we create together and that we recognize the real values can lead us further, not the fact that we only talk about black things. People don't like it. That's not what they're gonna vote for in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66134	MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66135	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't think that this, perhaps the last debate, or one of the last in the Serbian Parliament should turn into a convincing TV performance by the President of the Republic. But if you've already gone that way, I've seen a statement from the president talking about the opposition these days as a reaction to almost certain candidate status, acting on acidic grape syndrome. That syndrome has its other side, and it's called sweet lemon. What you're doing is actually pouring sweet lemon. One of your last sentences is actually the key to the collapse of this country and the collapse of the DS. You said you shouldn't say those things people don't like to hear, and that's your key problem. Even your party president and the President of the Republic spoke of it several times. How you made a mistake in 2008, then in 2009 when you didn't tell people the truth, when you didn't tell how difficult it was. You expect this parliament to enhance reality in Serbia rather than tell it the truth. You're trying to argue with the SRS, you've practically done it throughout this term to prove your Europeanism by trying to keep up with the 1990-1991 stories. You know, as much as they're responsible for the situation between 1990 and 2000, it's been almost 12 years, and you're almost as guilty of this situation after that. Galenika is not in this problem today because of 1999, 1998 or 2000, it is in this problem because it has been badly guided and because the country's economic policy has been disastrous in the last few years. The current situation in Galennica has absolutely nothing to do with the global economic crisis, absolutely nothing. Galenika is in trouble due to internal debts, due to internal liquidity, due to government debt, because the health insurance system in Serbia cannot bear the costs it currently has, because too few people work, because too few people pay a contribution, because there are a huge number of companies or a huge number of employees for which these contributions are not paid. That's how you create an internal system or a chain of incompetence. You could have solved those problems a few years ago, or at least you could have started solving them. It was in this assembly of proposals from different political parties, above all from LDP, how to solve the problem. You failed even until the end of the term of office to pass the law in that non-binding form, as it was in its proposal, on what will be the maximum time limit for the settlement of debts in the internal economic system, or the payment system. When you see it so clearly, 10 or 15 days before the election is called, you reach for that worst kind of demagogy. The next example of the head of your parliamentary group, which we can't talk to again, she's not in the O.R. Although it seems to me, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that the card of the president of the ZES parliamentary group has been inserted. I don't think that's the best way to work here. Not even at the vote, the card was inserted, it's a symbol of haughtiness. It doesn't matter what happens, we win or we get the candidacy. Well, then pack everything in that fus note and Vlaha, and the Romanians, and the president's concern, and shovels, and Rasim Ljajuæ's statement that it is necessary to verify the books, Minister Stankovic's statement that it is not necessary to verify the books. I don't understand what fighting means for every job? Is the job in Galennica by itself, by nature, more important than any job in the private sector? Well, should the private sector be completely ruined? Whether people who work in it, 300,350,400 thousand people lose jobs over the past four years, and only workers in the social sector or the state sector should be protected as white bears. Of course, this loan has nothing to do with the Galenica employees. How many employees are there in Galennica? Almost three thousand. Is that in line with other comparable, relevant pharmaceutical companies' business standards? Is that the situation in JAT, is that the situation in the railways? How many thousands of people are there? We are constantly commenting on the initiatives and actions of the URS or G17+ on subsidies for the workplace. Well, what's the subsidy per year for rail workers, in JAT, in JAT technique, here's the Galenica. Did she try Galenika's internal capacities to make some savings? So what's the name of the women's basketball club "Partizan"? Is it called "Partizan Galenika"? Of course, we don't mind sports, but that's why Galenika is advertised when she's in so much trouble. I have to apologize to those who are following this transmission and the press, and I was wrong two days ago when I was talking about what the interest rate for this loan is. It's not 7.3%, according to today's state of affairs, at the level of the three-month Eurobor, it's 7.94%. Would you take some credit in your house at that interest rate? Would you take some credit at that rate? Would you take a loan at an interest rate of 6%, how much is it for JAT? What does that have to do with Vlassas, Romanians and candidacy? Since that's how you imagine it after ten years of talks and negotiations, you got that lesson yesterday in Brussels, that we have to learn to negotiate, talk, work in a community that has 27, 28, in most things equal states. This is not Milosevic's Serbia. The President of the Republic cannot sit with Holbrooke or some of today's European officials to be lambs on milk, to agree on big state or state issues, and then everything will be okay. No, and various other countries have their own interests. It's not all about the interests of coalition partners, these small, petty Shisargyan interests. No matter what you bring down Serbia. What kind of coalition you're leading is what you're talking about. What's left of that coalition? Are you and that coalition going to the polls after four years? With the paradigms of Serbia's collapse from 1990 to 2012, with Galenika and JAT. These two companies have failed because of political mistakes, one part, you're absolutely right. But because of the idea that Serbia can survive on its own, that it can always function on some of its own rules, that every time debt is possible, that it's enough that we all take shovels in hands, shovels, night and day, or turn pedals night and day, and that everything will be okay. It's not gonna be okay. Understand once that it's normal for some companies to fail. I'm not talking about Galenika, I'm talking about any company that has problems here, especially these national giants, who are on state aid all the time. We're all employed here for a certain time, for four years. Here we go in two months to the elections, someone will be a MP again, someone won't, there's no social security program, there's no subsidy for this assembly, so we can all keep our jobs. Why, then, in companies holding your parties, something like that would work, and especially why would that work for those who run those companies. It's got nothing to do with fountains or statues in "Gelenica" with nothing. Serbian, especially state-owned companies have failed due to poor governance and poor political decisions. Where are the markets for Galenika? What's Galenika all about? To sell to state systems and state funds that never get paid. What's JAT all about? Well, for 20 years, it's protected by a white bear. Three low budget companies came in and broke up JAT because he wasn't able to compete with them. You're building a new hangar here for Er bass A320. After 20 years, we are unable to communicate with a language that the modern world understands. That's the problem. We are dealing with 1991 aircraft, 1991 policy, only by misleading that we are leaders like 1990 or 1991, a house in the middle of the road, a central place in the Balkans, just to turn our pedals and then everything will be okay. Can these pedal turns make electricity, for example in Serbia? Or when it snows, there's no electricity. So all of Serbia will turn off one light bulb. So what's the difference between the '90s? What better outfits do you have and what better talk about Europe? Or that you boasted in this parliament, in a way that, even that Socialist Party of Serbia was not boastful. She was as boastful as I remember her until the very end, only in that only term she finished in 1997. You're finishing the same mandate today, in the spring of 2012. You can only ask God to have the President of the Republic call you Presidential elections, so that I can drag you all on these tired shoulders.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66136	Presidential elections are called by parliament speaker Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66137	I didn't answer for the line, but I'll certainly use the MP's time on a few basiss. First for those who mentioned our late colleague, Dr. Vladan Batic, in a very negative context. With a little more respect you speak of this man, he also participated in the burning of the European torch for this country, for Serbia, and I pray indeed much more respect for this great man, that was our fellow who died, so I ask you to speak with all due respect about him. It was not a man of mobster, nor a criminal, nor robbed Galenika, it was a man who shared a vision with Dr Zoran Djindjic and believed together in the European values that we are accomplishing together today. Then I have some words to say to those people who speak in a very vulgar way about today's situation in Serbia. When you talk about the situation in Serbia, about the economic situation in Serbia and when you compare yourself and us today, I must remind you that today the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia are 12 billion euros. That register isn't empty, that with all that responsibility that we have today, we still have some foreign reserves. Maybe they're not as much as they could be, maybe the state of health isn't what we'd all like, but it's certainly far better. If the state of health is measured based on insight into the urology clinic, which is in one abandoned state, despite the management effort. When you go and see what conditions your patients are being treated today and I'm unhappy, and you're unhappy and the doctors who work there are unhappy. But, you know, a lot of good things have been done. If we are talking about the state of health based on an affair with cytostatics, the guilty of the affair have been arrested. If we're talking about the state of health based on an affair with vaccines, then once it was a mental noun to end up in front of justice. And they're accused and they're where they're supposed to be, and they gave their statement to the special prosecutor for organized crime. But it wasn't done by the will of the opposition, but by the will of the institutions of this country that function. When we talk about criticism over the European aspirations of this government, some political groups, and the options that are their concept of structure, that only they can bring us into Europe, I understand the anger and bitterness that a strong card has been kicked out of hand in a pre-election campaign. But still, these are the people with whom we share European values together and I always accept part of their criticism as well-intentioned and as criticism based on facts. I understand their indignation and anger that in the evening of the elections, Serbs still realize what they claimed would never happen, especially without them. But I don't understand those criticisms coming from the Serb Radical Party, which concerns the economic situation. Again and always I will ask that question – why this luxurious economic talent of that knowledge, you did not show that morality in the moments when you had the opportunity to manage this country. Who was stopping you? Who was holding you back? I can't wait for Vojislav Seselj to enter this hall here, first one of you will have to come out, I hope Zoran Krasic, because Vojislav Seselj is always ashamed to listen to him and tell me – he is not the ideologist of the Serbian Radical Party, perhaps I am the Democratic Party, but he is certainly not the Serbian Radical Party and is always ashamed when he hears his arguments and his argument and constantly beg him – please defend me less. It's not worth a blind wink and a deaf whisper. On the other hand, I can't wait for Vojislav Seselj to come in so I can ask him – how it goes to war against organised crime. Is it by waving a hectare in front of students or a gun in front of taxi drivers, because the opponent in the television duel slips onto the banana bark, or by someone who's a Croat moving out of his apartment in Zemun, on his neck-to-nosal. And I'll ask him a lot of questions, but I'll wait for my questions when he gets here. Whether we will be judged by the Serbian Radical Party, or by all of us by voters in the elections, everyone will judge us by the voters in the elections. These are the same voters who said there were more invalid ballots in Vranjska Banja than there were votes for the Serbian Radical Party. They are the same voters who said in Arangelovac that they do not want the Serbian Radical Party to cross the censorship. You can't change me, and I probably can't change you either. Some of you changed the party, so they went to some other political parties, because they decided not to ride on Titanic anymore. Some of you have decided that Joca Amsterdam is a better investor for Serbia than it is the World Bank, but have also left you. I also advise you, since you can't change us, you can't affect the change of this country or this people, try to change yourself. It's not hard to believe. To start thinking positively, listen to Balasevic, watch Goran Markovic's films, read what the library says about the effect of your owner you have had the opportunity to manage this country. I didn't claim that Galenika paved the roads. I was just talking about all the loans being taken, so I told you that one of those loans is also being taken to build a highway from Ljiga to Cačka. I believe that this part of Serbia has the right to have modern roads, that people travelling to these roads are no longer afraid or worried about getting hurt at the Ibari Masteral, but that they can get to Belgrade as I do from Kruševac. Of course, when we talk about whether Serbia has been in power for these not 10 years, I will remind you that this government only lasts four years, for four years of governance in this country, has progressed or gone backwards? You will hear the first and second March answer of those who will give this country candidate status. These people don't value the fog, these people don't value the words, they only value the works and the works best speak about this government. Did we deserve it or did we not get that candidate status? It'll be the first or the second of March. Let's not make Europe a term that you'll chew so sweetly in the election campaign, then spit it out. Let's not even make Europe a cause for too much joy and joy, but merely an incentive that this country still shows that Serbia can, Serbia can, and that there is hope in this country and that we should just look for the first little hope in ourselves, and then show Europe, but first and foremost to show ourselves that it's not all black, that it's not all gone down and that there's hope for this country. I'm telling you, maybe we're in a difficult economic situation, maybe we've had some really big economic problems for our mandate, and we haven't really been able to predict an economic crisis like that crisis was predicted by any of the leaders of any of the political parties sitting here today in this room. No one in 2008 spoke about the economic crisis in the pre-election campaign in early 2008 and did not speak to the DS either. We've faced this crisis. It's not an excuse or an excuse. She's not something we hide behind. The fact is that such a crisis has affected both our citizens and our economy and our economy. Can we afford a luxury, just so easily let some big systems fall apart and disappear from the face of the earth? I wish the private sector had the same incentive that foreigners have when investing in Serbia. And it bothers me that people in Krusevec who are opening new jobs don't get under 10, 12 thousand euros for that job, because there's no difference between a job in a cruise firm and some company that foreign investors are opening here. I'm glad when Panasonic arrives here in Svilajnac and I'm glad when Jura company arrives, and I'm glad when I leave Kruševec for Belgrade, so I see all those factories at the Great Plana, Lapova, Race, working. I'm glad to see all those systems that survived. I'm glad this country's energy system didn't collapse, even though we had to turn off one light bulb. Still, it's a big difference when you don't have the power for six hours, so you're turned off by the first, second, third, fourth group, and you turn off one light bulb. But most importantly, a light bulb may have been turned off during this winter, but the European lighthouse is on, and we're all headed for that lighthouse together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66138	National MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Srdjan Milivojević has, for who knows which time, injured Article 107, or cruelly injured the dignity of the National Assembly. In that he for no reason insulted the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj and our colleague Zoran Krasic. I don't know if Srdjan Milivojevic was taking out sugar these days, if it wasn't for me to advise him to do it, because man obviously doesn't know what he's saying and he's not doing well. I wonder when Vojislav Seselj told Srdjan Milivojevic what he thought of Zoran Krasic or any of the MPs of the SRS? Is it possible that in the burning break of the Assembly, in the break, he's trespassing at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Federal Customs Administration? When the president of the SRS became intimate with a respected DS gentleman, a former leader of resistance, telling him secrets about what he thinks about any of his colleagues from the SRS. What's the fact is that Boris Tadic, here is today's strong competition in his political party. Now there is a dead race between Mr. Janko Veseinovic and Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic who will more like Boris Tadic with that state-run, concerned expression that he had a difficult diplomatic struggle in Brussels for the benefit of Serbia and the Serb people, but fortunately for us he won the diplomatic battle with his friends from the EU Council of Ministers. Now the two of them are trying, this is one big theater, which will remind Boris Tadic more. One is plagued by the fact that he has glasses, and Boris Tadic does not have them. The other one is troubled that he is not as gray as Boris Tadic, so now that is a small problem. This theatre can be held at the meetings of the Committee, or the bodies of the DS. What do we have to do with SRS MPs with the pathological desire of DS people to remind themselves of their leader? We had people like that in the SRS. One wanted to look like Vojislav Seselj, so he was sorry he couldn't pronounce the voice "r" as Vojislav Seselj, which has no large stomach like Vojislav Seselj, which is not as high as Vojislav Seselj and is not a doctor of science as Vojislav Seselj. That's the way they left us. If you're going their way, to imitate a leader, even physically, then I don't think you belong in politics, but in some theater of absurdity.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66140	National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66141	Dear Chairman, I would not like to answer these somewhat ridiculous objections, or insinuations. I would like to look back on what Đuric said, and I would like to remind you that I did not say that the opposition should not talk about things that are not beautiful and not talk about black things, but that it should not only talk about black things and that the situation in the country is catastrophic from day to day. It's a feature of all opposition groups, including yours, Mr. Djuric. I'm surprised at one other thing. I'm surprised that you haven't learned anything from your colleagues from the West who have long since left liberal, or neoliberal attitudes when it comes to economy. So, let the postulate keep things going in its course, neither in the U.S. nor in Germany, nor in France, nor anywhere in the serious world. So the state seriously interferes with the situation in the economy, especially in the state of the system of which the country's economic life depends, so it saves banks, so it saves insurance organisations, so it saves the railways, etc. I don't know where you're coming from with the view that in Serbia there should remain a liberal status of relations with the economy and let all the companies established by the state or owned by the state fail. I hope that neither you nor your colleagues in the SRS, because I think that every serious state has to take care of big systems, regardless of the way that it's brought them into a non-solid situation, whether it's a debt crisis, whether it's a management problem, but we've been three months or three years ahead of the elections, we can't let Galenika or JAT fail, crash jobs, and, above all, what people have created for generations, I mean the knowledge and experience that in Galenica exists. Maybe this company needs to be privatised, maybe it needs to be restructured, reorganized, bring management from the west, but in any case at this point it shouldn't be let down and that all those who make good money on the torture and disease of our citizens, and that's what the sector is, it's the import sector pharmaceutically, it lives well. So it's not our goal to please this sector but to keep our pharmaceutical industry alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66142	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66143	Mr. Veselinovic, as if I had listened to Borislav Jovic in the fight against Ante Markovic's nomination as president of the federal government there in 1989.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66144	I'll ask you not to address the MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66145	I'm sorry. Here, I am speaking to you through Parliament, Mr. Veselinovic. I don't think we can really run a policy at that level of commenting on the seal or new Serbian political thoughts. Now we've opened a big topic, we're going into the election. Did the DS move to the positions of Cuban socialism, North Korean socialism? What are you talking about? Let me remind you, if you are talking about liberal Western democracies or liberalism in the economy, at this point it is on its knees or almost failed Greece, Greece led as prime minister or chaired by your socialist international in the past few years, the gentleman you made a great coalition or reconciliation agreement, among other things, and with the SPS. I'm not sure there's a single real Western liberal economy. If you're talking about subsidies that exist in these countries or forms to help industry, always forget the other part, that aid comes back in one way or another when these companies get on their feet. The problem with our companies is that it's bottomless holes, regardless of the beautiful speeches, regardless of the kind of worst and deepest pathos and pulsism of how our people's tortures and illnesses make a good living. Is that true, then, for every doctor in Serbia, for every health institution that, among other things, earns by treating people? This kind of view of the world, of the economy, of the economy no longer exists anywhere else, except perhaps in North Korea. President, I apologize for being formally wrong when I spoke about calling the elections, of course you call the elections, but if the president's mandate is shortened, as may be the possibility these days, then before that the president has to make a move, let's just say that he cuts his term by resigning, and then you will formally call the elections. You are well aware that I am right, that problems are coming from this side, that because of this kind of takeover of all responsibilities in the country or usurpation of institutions you must withdraw or partially correct the interpretations of your interview with the given media, as happened last week in relation to elections in northern Kosovo. That's why I don't blame you. I think you've run this House with honor over the past few years. I'm talking about those who run a political game under the table or behind the curtain in that absurd theatre, trying to narrow Serbia down already in May this year, to make room for its large coalition of DS and SNS, which will also justify the great global economic crisis with examples of Germany, examples of other countries. December is obviously too late for that. The negative effects of both these policies and these economic decisions will come toll, and therefore so much haste to carry out everything in May by holding presidential elections and then to justify the coalition without going to the citizens. You and I know it well. That's what the president of your party is talking about for one or other microphones, in one or another mood, but that's obviously what's coming to Serbia, and that's why it's good that we just know that in time. It's not going to do anyone any good to stick his head in the sand, as it won't be good for DS MPs because of this kind of demagogy that they're trying to put together citizens. I don't know if there's going to be room for all of them in that big coalition, no matter what it looks like today, an ideal solution for everyone to be home for the next four years. This was what many in Germany looked like, so the political scene followed up with a real earthquake.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66146	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66147	Dear President, frankly, I was thinking whether he was even involved in this debate because there were a lot of populism and incorrect economic and legal claims, but because of the attitudes of the SRS on these amendments, I think and we feel that we have a duty to make a few facts. First, in 2000, it was $10 billion, and now it's over $30 billion. That's a fact. We can use various methods to calculate GDP, but the fact is that debt has risen from $10 billion to $30 billion. That can't be challenged. The second thing is that you use statistics that show over-inflated GDP, which is not using constant prices but running, but we won't bother our citizens with that. Anyway, the fact is, the debt went up three times. Also, as far as the DS gentleman who told us about the social product here, it doesn't exist, there's only gross domestic, gross national product. Please, when we talk about some economic matters, let the terms that have been accepted by the UN, this IMF and all other economic organisations be used. Therefore, we simply need to talk about facts and deal with economic methodology, not populism and speculation. The third thing I want to mention in front of the SRS is that the candidacy is the opening of the market of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that the candidacy is a neoliberal concept, as Mr Mirko Cvetkovic said in a letter to the European Council on obtaining a bid two years ago and said, I quote, that simply the Republic of Serbia is looking at the moment when all countries of the world are introducing new protectionism, asking for one kind of other economic policy or the application of a unilateral transitional trade agreement, and we are losing precisely because of the liberal policy of 300 million dollars a year. That's the facts. We can talk about the '90s now, we can talk about what happened 100 years ago, but this is about our future, whether we're going to live like Bulgarians, Romanians, Hungarians, Greeks or we're going to make a normal country that won't fail because of the phrase that the EU doesn't have an alternative. It is a fact and we are asking for it to be done by our amendments, stop borrowing and stop making sense of politics that the EU has no alternative. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66148	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66149	I didn't want to use the right to replicate, Madam President, but purely for two insinuations. The first is, I didn't hear that presidential elections were scheduled or that someone was announcing the presidential election. I know, ever since we entered this hall that every 20 days the opposition has been envisioned by parliamentary elections -- there will be elections in May, as soon as they pass this law will be an election, this is an overture for calling elections. We have shown that we are able to preserve the stability of this country and the political and economic and we have fulfilled our full mandate not to force spite or spite it, but because we have strong ties within the coalition, firm programming definitions that unite us in our efforts and intentions to make what we have promised and achieve and that what we have achieved is not on our backs so that we carry somewhere, but that it remains behind us, for a favor to all the citizens of this country. When we talk about future coalitions, don't ask us for coalition partners in the SNS. We, just like them, have repeatedly denied it. The differences are very great between us, so we have a commitment to go out on this election the way we're going out. We also wish you good luck, just as we want all the participants who were with us in the government right now, and we want to make these elections as good a result as possible, not to ask for new partners, not to impose some new coalitions on the citizens of Serbia, but to bring this job that we are doing now and it is over because candidate status is just the first step. We need a start date for the negotiations, and we need that job done. We've been defined to finish this job, but I'm saying, I don't see any chance of making that coalition with the SNS, or bidding on future coalitions right now. The election's on the threshold. The citizens will show how they judge whom and who they value, and they are there to judge all. Until then, it's up to us to bring this job that we started to bring to an end, but I'm saying, don't let you see early presidential elections and don't let you see any fantastic coalitions and, based on those coalitions, some impossible coalitions you're announcing, try to make a better rating for yourself and your own political option. The Democratic Party has made it clear who it wants to build a European Serbia with which it does not. We gave you our hand, let me tell you right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66150	MP Bojan Đuric. You've got another minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66151	Well, there's no need to thank me for giving us a hand. But here's what I'm gonna do. It's not about the coalition, it's about the cartel deal, and it has to do with Galenika. Galenika was convicted several times ago of cartel bargaining and market division. I'm talking about your intention to share the market. I didn't say you might join the coalition or that your party would formally join the coalition. I'm just saying about sharing power, about a scenario where maybe the President of the Republic will continue to be Boris Tadic, and the government will be led by someone from the SNS, or one of the successful businessmen, whom you will all join because Serbia is in a difficult economic situation. Is it possible? Even so, I don't know what I'm seeing, Mr. Milivojevic, since it's one of the announcements of one of your party's high-ranking officials today? If we're going to go all the way, the official who has a higher function in that party than you, it seems to me, which is why I take his statement as relevant. She showed up in the media today. This has been said in some other places for weeks. It's not an illusion at all. So I doubt at this point that you want to make an unauthorized cartel agreement involving both the SNS and all those you need, so that this same policy, especially in the economic area, continues to be implemented for the next few years. Besides, you're not hiding it. Perhaps the time has come when mice and cats sleep together, as Tomislav Nikolic said. He's obviously been a role model to you in a lot of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66152	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment to Article 3 of the SRS Parliament Club will not be pleased with the representatives of the ruling coalition, as they did not like our amendments that we have submitted to this session and as they do not like the facts that we bring out this way. On the contrary, however, we quite like to hear them occasionally, because these three and a half years mainly served to press the buttons at the opening and closing of the session, to vote on the agenda, and to finally hold a vote on the proposed agenda. But we're really glad to hear them, because here they say they don't like what we're saying, saying we represent reality like this or something. No, we're talking about facts, and they start to say one thing and in the end, the epilogue of everything, we get a confession that, we're also aware that the people are having a hard time living, so said Mr. Vesenovic. Mr Milivojevic, who comes out, said – there's a lot of what's good, but let's say in one urological clinic, it's a very bad condition. Thank you for all this information. There's still some very useful things to hear and get confirmation and their confessions about how they've been doing all these years. As far as this amendment of ours is concerned, we are in favour of eradicating all members of this guarantee law, as we are for eradicating all other guarantee laws, which are on today's agenda of this session. This is about the total amount of guarantees of around 580m euros, I'm talking only about guarantees, not loans, and this particular item of the agenda, which refers to Galenika, is about the amount of 70m euros. We were also accused of making the same argument as in the debate in principle. We find our argument in official documents and in the work of congregation bodies. Speaking of official documents, someone had already said before that this assembly had set up the Fiscal Council. Yes, the Fiscal Council is a body and we have heard that its members are proposed and who are the people chosen. When the Fiscal Council was already established, he has an obligation to give his assessment and he delivered his assessment to the National Assembly. Their assessment was filed in the Assembly under the number 400-474/12 since 21 February 2012. In the assessment of the Fiscal Council, it is clear that in 2011, the public debt crossed the law-defined border. The legally defined limit was 45% of GDP, and at the end of 2011, it was 46.4%. However, what concerns is that in 2012, it is most likely that further public debt growth is inevitable due to low growth and the planned deficit, which is planned at 4.2%, and based on all this data, the evaluation of the Fiscal Council that the public debt will be 51% of GDP at the end of this year. However, their estimate is that by 2015 it will be 55%. And you know how the Budget System Act is defined? Not that it's going to increase, but that it needs to be reduced. But it's not the only thing that burdens it, because the Restitution Act still has 5% left, which means 60% of GDP. It is clear that the law has already been broken and that it continues with the violation of the law. As for some of the other criticisms that we have received as an opposition is that we express things in a way that does not like the representatives of the ruling coalition and is said in the debate in the principle that these duties are due to growth, not consumption. The guarantee contract, which will be given "Gallenice", is not due to growth, but because of the refinance of existing short-term commitments, so as not to result in complete indifference. So we stick to the facts and stick to arguments that are true, not to say something here like we just said. As for all of this, we had the opportunity to hear from Mr Cvetkovic at the meeting of the Committee on Finance on 21 February that the data is not what they are, but is the wrong way of calculating. It's the wrong methodology. And last time I said that Mr. Cvetkovic was here today, we have a minister of education and science for the interviewer, and I will now use his presence, I know that Mr. Cvetkovic would again tell us that it was the wrong way of calculating, that it was the wrong methodology, but since the minister of science and enlightenment is there, for information that some people at 60 years of age are very easy to obtain a master degree, that Tomislav Nikolic, with almost 60 years of age, gained a master degree. Without getting into years, but by age, there's someone who can be my parent. He's my parents' age. I'm a master's degree at the Faculty of Economics in Nis. I'd just like to ask the Minister for an opinion. The procedure for enrollment on the master's study, first you have to file a request, so if you haven't completed your profession, you have to take the entrance exam, to listen to the lecture, to take the exam, you have to do the access papers. You know how teachers see it. If you've left out something, you've got to fix it so you can take the exam and pass all the exams, take the subject for master work, make it and then become a master. Whether it's a procedure or there's someone else, so that when I'm 40 years old, I need a lot of time, and that someone who's almost 60, like Tomislav Nikolic, gets a Master's degree in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66154	Five minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to respect Article 106 and to stick to agenda topics. If they feel that they have something very important to say, let them organise it with the minister outside the session’s theme without resorting to abuse of procedures and abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66155	Mr Buha's amendment is in the context of all of our amendments aimed at ending the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia under unfavourable conditions, and would even say the interest conditions. As you know, we have stated that debt of a billion and a half euros at the moment that the external debt of the Republic of Serbia has reached 24 billion euros is completely pointless, with economic and legal and political points of view, especially when it comes to banks from the Western part of the EU, mentioned in this amendment. First of all, I think of "Uncredited Bank", because it is generally known and it is impossible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not know it, that this "unicredit bank" is experiencing a kind of collapse and is firing 5,000 workers in Eastern Europe, but, behold, in the Republic of Serbia alone, this bank has the possibility that, under the interest rate of interest, the interest rate, the interest rate, the interest rate, the loan, which, along with the eurobore and the exchange rate and the fixed margin, will reach a total interest of 7%. We're against it. Of course we are against it and in principle we think it is bad for the future of this country, this economy and these citizens. We see no reason why we should now be discussing some events from 20, 100 years ago, and I don't know how many years ago, but simply, all of our amendments and this amendment of Mr. Buha are directed towards the future. They're constructive, they're reasoned and they're focused on stopping this borrowing. We also believe, and therefore delete this member, that these funds should be directed, not towards foreign banks, not towards helping the social peace in Austria, Italy and all those countries from the Western part of the EU, from where these banks are coming from, but from our citizens, towards the social, towards education, towards pensioners, because we believe that the social state is not overcome at this economic moment. Moreover, we believe that it has resurfaced as a successful economic model. What is happening in the EU is something that needs to be rejected in economic, legal and political terms and rely on its strength and on the help of friends from the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66156	Two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66157	It is again a similar amendment aimed at ending the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. We consider and call on some economic experts who are in the minority, which do not depend on the IMF and the EU, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We believe further borrowing will lead us to the situation that over the next 10 years we will give, and that is economically and mathematically proven, only to pay off the external debt of 10 billion euros, which is amazing. In fact, 10 billion euros is a third of our GDP, which, for God's sake, is to reach 1.5% and we think it won't be that either, but that GDP is calculated under some conditions that aren't real. This amendment shall have the purpose of suspending such borrowing. There are other banks, there are other sources of money, there is one rational policy that would abolish the transitional trade agreement and target those funds, which is, if not, in the Galenika mentioned here in this amendment. But if the Republic of Serbia is in debt under such interest conditions as the "Uncredited Bank", which is nowhere to operate on economic grounds, it just looks in the Republic of Serbia, it is, excuse me, no matter how scandalous and however you will, it can be defined. In that sense, this amendment was submitted to Mr. Jeremic. We believe that the Republic of Serbia must adapt to the modern situation, a situation that shows that this neoliberal concept, this concept of unlimited borrowing, has led to the collapse of countries in the eastern and southern parts of the EU. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66158	A minute and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that article 6 be deleted. Today, during the debate on amendments, we heard a few remarks that we seemed to have discussed a long time ago, and I realized that we understood each other, but obviously we didn't. One of my colleagues said this was one of the last sessions, and maybe the last one, and now we from the SRS are using that session to defend the amendments. First of all, we use every session to take a critical look at both the government's work and the suggestions we get. Of course, we submit amendments and explain why we have submitted these amendments. It seems to me that this is rather, not to use a more difficult term, but at the very least completely contrary to democratic principles and parliamentary democracy such an observation. As for the amendments to Article 6, it has been an objection that this amendment, like all our amendments, is also because it is said to delete that member, are amendments that obstruct the work of this Parliament. We can't accept that. We in the SRS think that whoever proposes new responsibilities and whoever adopts it, that they obstruct both the state and the people. This is unacceptable in the situation in which this state of Serbia is located and where all Serbian citizens are, that you, indiscriminately, are using this last or one of the last sessions, second us. That's what the SRS is about, and believe me, all the citizens who are following this or who have heard of these new responsibilities, it's unacceptable and it's the insolence of the outgoing government. Why are you doing this? You couldn't organize yourself and provide the majority for some serious bill proposals, but that's why what's behind the EU puts you in a good position. That's the 126 you can always find, just like you found for this. (President: National MPs, in accordance with the principles of democracy, please on the agenda, on your amendments. Of course, I'm talking about Article 6. (President: If you were talking, I wouldn't interrupt you. I now warn you, either you will speak of the agenda, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or you are forcing me to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which oblige me to remind the MPs of what is on the agenda. ) It is amazing that by adopting this law, you will be in charge of another 70m euros because someone in Galenica or someone in the state, because it is a state-owned company, unable to settle its debt. But we have the right to suspect that this is not about incompetence. This debt is not knowingly charged because there are some dealings between someone in Galenica and those in debt, and then the state, through the National Assembly, will, imagine, settle that debt with a loan. I'm sorry, that's completely unreasonable. This sort of thing could not have been suggested even by Tomislav Nikolic, who said the other day that he was a master of the economy, and we were just asking where he ended up and at which facility, after Wikiliks told us that he had bought a diploma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66160	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. I ask all MPs who participate in the debate not to mock procedures to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What's true for one is true for all. The member who obliges us during the debate in particular is to talk about the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66161	The amendment was tabled in the context of preventing further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia on non-economic and non-profit grounds. We also feel and again that if this unacceptable situation has already occurred that the Republic of Serbia is in debt, that it would simply be better and much more acceptable for our citizens, for our budget, for our economy, to do so with the only Serbian serious bank that remains as some factor in the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we don't think we should be in debt at the Uni Credit Bank, at the Societte General, but at the Commercial Bank. What's so controversial about that? Is it disputed in this regard, we regret that Mr Cvetkovic is not here to answer us, because an arrangement with the IMF has been cancelled and because the IMF and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are demanding that the Commercial Bank be sold to foreigners, possibly to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? We believe that simply the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the Governor and all those officials who run economic policy in this sense should be assisted by the domestic banking sector. That's what the Austrians do, the Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, which is mentioned in this amendment. They gave nearly two billion euros to literally nationalise the bank. In this regard, we also feel that we should protect our banks and think that the method should also be applied in the insurance sector, in the Danube Insurance, which is also required by the IMF to sell. Therefore, we do not see why, in this sense, this amendment has been submitted, that we should be in charge of the banks that are from the Western part of the EU and which give you loans under the interest conditions and that is why this amendment has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66162	Used two minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of all amendments. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he wants a word. Yeah. ) Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66163	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament allow me to say a few words about the bill which was the subject of consideration by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today in this so-called so-called ". It's an amendment piece. It is, in effect, the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia under the responsibility of "Galenika" a.d. Belgrade. What is important to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that a 70m-euro loan, which the state guarantees, is not owed to additional citizens of Serbia, but will return the credit to a public company from its own sources over the next seven years with a grace period of two years. Citizens will not be burdened further. The loan returns a public company from its own sources over the next seven years with a grace period of two years. The money will be used to reprogram short-term loans that, and that is true, the public-owned Galenika company took during the previous period from commercial banks under very unfavourable conditions, where the interest was 28 to 40% on an annual basis, then to ensure the business of the company for the remuneration of employees, but also to ensure raw materials, in order not to stop production and lead to shortages of medicines. Negotiations are, it's important to mention, run by 18 banks. They lasted over four months to sign an arrangement for smooth work and for the passing of the public company's accounts. The essence of the loan is, this should be noted, that any short-term obligations the company has towards banks turn into a long-term loan under much more favourable conditions. You'll admit, credit 6.95% on an annual basis, plus euribor is a far better variant than short-term loans where interest went from 28% to 40%. This would allow and will allow smooth production and ensure regular and regular supply of medicines to Serbian citizens. What needs to be mentioned is that the claims "Gallenika" to large-scale drugs are currently over 85m euros. If that had been charged, we would not be discussing this loan today, but unfortunately, the payment of this claim has not been made and therefore this loan is taken. What is important to say and what I want to say to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that at the June 23rd session, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted measures that should have been taken to ensure the regulation of the market and to provide medicines for which the shortages threatened. These measures, taken by the government along with Galenika's management, with the entire management structure, the board of directors and others, were absolutely results. As an example, I'm going to list two drugs, two preparations. The first is the "heparin" that was to be provided in February of this year, practically by the end of today, and it appeared on the market even in November, several months before the deadline. The second drug is "to approach plus" which was supposed to be completed in March, and has already been provided two weeks ago and worth 250,000 boxes. Raw materials for production, it is important to mention, are provided for the current quarter and is not at all questioned by any shortage of drugs produced by this company. In this period, it is important to mention from the point of view of the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in this period of June 23rd, when measures were proposed, to this day, the Galenika debt, reduced costs practically by 3.5m euros and reduced the number of employees by 352 people. I mean, that is also the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also my personal position, that the Galenika company is of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, because thanks to the "Galenica" citizens will be allowed cheaper supplies and the company will be able to participate with as much as 50% of the current market. This is important because this year, 2012, is planned from the point of view of the company to be a year of modernisation, the year in which new technologies are introduced into production, which produces and promotes new preparations, to carry out further reorganisation within companies, to get all necessary international standards, to be more present on the market, to have a greater impact on the market, to expand export expansion and to increase the level of social responsibility to patients who need to continue to have a cheap drug, which is the essence of Galenika's business. The company expects that in this way, with all the measures it plans in 2012, it will expect a profit of over 6.5m euros in 2013, and of course this profit could be growing every year. These several data that I have told you shows the essence of giving guarantees and that the bill that the National Assembly will vote for and how it will be useful for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course for Galenika, to solve the problems in which it is located, to provide liquidity, to provide the possibility of greater production, more quality, for more medicines, and for citizens, of course, because they will have available medicines and cheaper than other producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66164	After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, and since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move on to the second such agenda of the search in particular – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DANITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE USE OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK A.D. BELGRADE BY THE ACCIONARY SOCIETY FOR THE AIR TRANSPORT OF "JAT AIRWAYS" A.D. BELGRAD. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Vladan Jeremic, joint MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelevic, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radic, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made, and since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MPs Dragan Stevanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the same text. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, Mr. Minister, since you've been involved in the debate, right now at the end of this previous point, I would like to draw your attention to one thing on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party. All these loans, which are, in the Serbian Radical Party's view, primarily economically and then a political failure, are identical because the same category is burdening, and no problem on the other side will be solved in the long term. The state can't run from today to tomorrow. The state is run by policies and programmes established for at least five to ten years. This has been established that we are paying back some debts in the next five or seven years, but at the same time these companies will not be recovered. It is a fundamental problem and a grudge from the Serbian Radical Party, which puts out the fire with gasoline. You see, Mr. Minister, no one is more supportive of the arguments of the Serbian Radical Party today in the debate has given to you. You know what you just said by reading? You, Mr. Minister, are a doctor of science. Respecting it and believing it and knowing that you did not become a Tomislav Nikolic master, or whatever it is, I find it untasteful to allow yourself to be dragged into such a debate and then let you read it – the company was in debt under very unfavourable conditions... (President: National MP, second item of the agenda!) I know that, ma'am. (President: Then you deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure. ) I made it very clear that this loan is completely identical to the first one and let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66166	People's MP, I can't let you because then anyone has the right to say that I'm allowing a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't break the Rules of Procedure. The first point, the debate in particular, is closed. Second point, if I have to read to you what the second point is called and what the topic of the agenda is, I'm at your disposal. Your amendment, if I have to read it to you, is deleted and submitted to the second item of the agenda. Either you talk about the second item of the agenda, or I will have to remind you by the Rules of Procedure, which oblige me to respect the Rules of Procedure. So, second item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66167	Mr. Minister, the failure I'm talking about at the previous point is identical to what I'm talking about borrowing the state... (President: National MP, the failure I was talking about is your will not to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I can't understand why you think you're allowed to do that. You know very well that I don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66168	People's MP, you're working now. This is the second item of the agenda. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Minister, here you go. (Dragan Stevanović, from the place: I did not log out.) ) National MP, you did not deliberately exclude yourself, you did not deliberately mix the agenda point, but you deliberately continue to violate the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you about the amendment. The minister checked in anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66169	Mr. Stevanović, I think you are very wrong about the claims you made. The government minister's mission is to talk about government policy and there's no living man in the world who can know everything, everything. I think it's the secret of success in life to know that you don't know everything, so ask those who know. I don't see at all any personal, professional, ethical, or any kind of obstacle to what one of my colleagues knows better than to say on his behalf. Why? I have heard some of the information that I have told you from my colleague Zoran Stankovic, Minister of Health, at the last cabinet session on these medicines that Galenika successfully produced before the deadline and made it possible for the market to be better supplied to the medicine market and for the medicines to be available to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I heard other things from the chairman of the board of directors. I have no reason to hide it either. Why? I think we should tell the truth. Yes, Galenika did a bad job in the previous years, she was in charge of short-term loans. Yes, the state of Serbia provides guarantees. Yes, the citizens won't return it. (Dragan Stevanovic, from the scene: It is not true. ) Well, it's your bet and you can bring it out in public, it's not at all controversial, but it's my obligation to announce, as I said yesterday or yesterday when we talked about some laws relating to education for social influence, as the opposition is trying very hard to meet Serbian citizens with its position on the structure of individual laws, so is the duty, I guess, of the government to state the government's position on individual laws. I made it very clear, the claims are over 85m euros. It says here in the documents up to 90m euros. The question is for the management of the collection of claims Excuse me. [[President: Minister, two minutes of replica law has been used.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66170	Thank you. Do you want a straight line, two minutes? Just sign in. Here you go. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66171	Mr. Minister, you don't matter at all in this story, I challenge the government's policy, and it's identical for JAT Airways and Galenika. In 2011, seven billion dinars were provided for in the Republic of Serbia's budget for running guarantees, which public enterprises, founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot finance. Our question is, who will repay this debt if the company does business with losses? In these laws, neither JAT Airways nor Galennica you have any idea that the financial business of these companies will stabilize. These laws don't solve the problem they need to secure the revenues from which these things will be financed. The government's representative can't inform us, it's not important you, that a public firm, whose founder of the state, was in charge under unfavorable conditions and that we discuss new responsibilities. That applies to JAT, so I don't get interrupted. It was taken 51 million just in November last year. Money spent. The leadership is saying that money spent under the law and the government gave a blessing. We're contesting it now, and it's not a topic. It's a theme. It's the same thing. I was just trying to get in touch with each other. I don't dispute you, and I agree that you have the right not to know everything, like all of us, except Mrs. Comic, she's always right, but there's no solution here, and here the problems remain to be quiet. You, as responsible for implementing the state policy, cannot afford it and should not allow it, as Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66172	Two minutes. Replication time has been used. Minister Zarko Obradovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66173	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. It's a matter of relations with Parliament that each of us has. I don't see anything wrong with saying what it is, because there's a reason why the state provides guarantees for 70 million Galenikas. If I skipped those two sentences because of short-term loans, where the interest rate was high, you'd say, "Yeah, don't say what's the reason," it's important that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia... True, management has made a bad business move and will suffer the consequences. It is not disputed, but it is also true that the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 23 June of this year and thanks to the board of directors of the Galenika and the people who, together with the Government and these boards, are implementing these measures, that Galenika is on the right track and that this guarantee will serve to turn many short-term loans into one long-term loans at 6.9% interest rate, plus euribor, that this is a better solution, to show that both the Management Board and the management and the measures the government took produce results. Within the collective, of course, other appropriate measures will be taken. What's the point of the whole story? Why is the state interested in Galenika? Well, for the simple reason that Galenika will produce medicines that will be available and cheaper for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat that from the beginning that there will be no confusion, this loan will not be returned by the citizens, it will be returned by Galenika. That's the point. Guarantees, guarantees are the last eight months of the way Galenika works, it's the best guarantee, because if they've managed to cut certain costs, if they've managed to solve the issues of the organization one way, that two drugs produce better, then of course, what's the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66174	Thank you. The line on the replica was used. National MP Dragan Stevanovic. Right on the replica, and this closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66175	Mr. Minister, the citizens won't return, and what if Galenika doesn't return? Then who's coming back? Well, then they return the citizens of the Republic of Serbia indirectly by financing the budget, and we need to have as a comfort as a guarantee that they charge from that public enterprise that is deep down. I asked one question in principle, and now I'm asking it. Explain on behalf of the Government why the guarantee for this borrowing is not claims? Why don't the banks consider it? If they're valid and chargeable, but we're not discussing it at all, the government won't discuss it. We're taking 70 million credit, we've got 85 claims. Why aren't they a guarantee? They just didn't. But the same problem is in JAT, because money is being withdrawn, and structural problems in businesses are not being solved. What is the intention of the SRS is today to tell you that this does not take me wrong, but these are very unserious moves with very dangerous and dangerous numbers, here you are looking for company restructurings or companies will find strategic partners or the state will firmly control them by putting them on their feet which this one is unable to do this power or all of this will go bankrupt as it already ends with that agony. This isn't a job to get out of trouble. That's what we're talking about. Can I speak within the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66176	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for an amendment hearing? You want to talk about the amendment? Please, the amendment to Article 2 submitted by Mr Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66177	Ministers, in November of last year, the assembly ratified the loan JAT is in charge of 51m euros. We strongly opposed it. We thought JAT went into the privatisation process, or should I say sales, looking for a strategic partner, so the second time he went looking for a strategic partner, and both of those attempts failed. In all that talk, you know who just took advantage? Houses that made the asset assessment, or privatisation counselors, were exploited. They were the only ones who were paid for everything by the rules, and they were the only ones who benefited. Debts remained in the company, company problems remained, business manners remained almost a few months or a year after that, a year and something, the Republic Assembly is asked to verify a new debt of 10 million dinars. The current short-term liabilities are refinanced, i.e. the company's liquidity is refinanced. Today, JAT is spoken of in the same tone, in the same tone, in the same way as it was spoken of a year and a half ago. One step forward has not been taken since then to this day. The strategic partner was not found and then I don't know how many months later the geniuses in the government came up with the idea of building a new firm and that the new firm would be in partnership with a consortium that would make up the largest Serb tycoons. Is that the responsibility of the state? The president calls them rudely wealthy. We also think of them formally or declaratively. They'll be the business carriers of the national airline. For the SRS, something like that is unacceptable. He can buy someone who has capital, the fact is that he can also check out that capital, but the dealmaker to be the government along with the unworthyly wealthy, for the SRS is unacceptable. But if the government solved that too, if the government found a way to solve the JAT problem, why the new debt to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, guarantee whatever it is? Why don't you just let it go to those who, under corporate principles, will possibly lead that company? Do you think Mr. Minister that in JAT, there are still or no more people who receive enormous incomes? That there are no more meaningless contracts there? That secretaries, these and those are paid extremely high wage prices? Do you know what bad and dirty jobs used to do with marketing houses? How much did this cost the company directly and indirectly the budget of the Republic of Serbia? That's terrible, but no one from the state should take seriously and point their fingers at those who are guilty of it. By closing our eyes in front of that fact, we re-indemnify this company for 10 million. It doesn't matter if you and I return it, it's a public enterprise whose founder is. Public office holders entrusted with the mandate of the people are obliged to take care of it in an honorable and responsible manner. They continue to waste, they continue to share wages and what I know, and you in the Assembly rub your head so that you can provide us with a new guarantee and collect most of it for such a thing. What's he gonna do with that new company? The only thing that will go away is what's worth it, and the debts and the overwork will remain on the government's back. It is the government's plan to form this new company, that is, our airline, and the new one that will be with Miskovic and the team. But there's one thing Minister, what's most valuable in JAT is slots. It can't go to a new company, and it's worth over 200m euros. It can't go to a new company, but we have to go swimming again, eventually get such favorable slots, contracts, etc. Now we're talking about a new company assignment, and we're having a major problem with our eyes. This is where the SRS is resented. Because it's not good, because these are problems that require a hundred to solve, no matter how much pain it hurts, it has to be solved. We owe it to generations after us. We have no illusion that even the next government will not be able to deal with these problems easily. They'll face it but it won't be easy to solve, but it has to start. Put out the fire with gasoline, that's not good. It is not good, it is harmful for the state and it must be said to the public and the public must hear it and therefore be determined according to all the policies that will be offered in the next campaign. This is the policy that only banks have and no one else benefits from. Banks which, through their interest margins, will make a huge profit on the one hand, and on the other hand, will make that money to the queens, in this case not, but in other credits, they will be the queens to safeguard the stability of the financial system. With us will be the value of losing the money, and they will guard their country's wealth. It would be nice for you to look up to them, to keep your own country as they guard their own. We don't have a problem with that, we wait for May, so we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66178	Six minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the same text. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of ours has been deleted in the same text by the member mentioned. Of course, we are also not to approve this guarantee, meaning that it is deleted, that this amount of 10 million is not guaranteed, because at this session there are guarantees totaling 580m euros. Argumentation, one part we have already made, and I will add that for the sake of this proposal, guarantees are not issued, these guarantees will be used for a loan that is for the purpose of refinanceing existing short-term liabilities because it is necessary to prevent JAT Airways' loan from reaching a delay which would endanger the company's ability to service its obligations within the time limit. When we talk about guarantees, I'll remind the IMF, and the SRS position is clear that this government should never have entered arrangements with him because the IMF led them to a series of wrong steps. They called in their criticism that the government guarantees an arrangement they had should not be greater than 1% of GDP. However, the 2012 budget envisioned twice the amount of guarantees, which means almost 2%. This clearly shows that Prime Minister Cvetkovic's cabinet, which is also the finance minister and which was due today when talking about these laws to be present, violated the agreement they reached. In the 2012 Budget Law, I have it with me and I will read Article 3 says that in 2012, guarantees from the Republic of Serbia will be issued up to 318.3 billion dinars. It's worth as much as it's in dollars, how much it's going to be in Euros and the rest. But the IMF's criticism was answered by Mr Cvetkovic, we have provided for in the Budget Law such an amount, but not all the guarantees that are counted will be issued and issued. We don't know which will be approved and which won't. That's just one big inconclusive thing he's talking about. It would be good if Mr. Cvetkovic were there to answer which key the guarantees will be given, which will be on the agenda of this session, because most of the 126 will vote. You have the right to half, which half of you will decide to give guarantees, which half of you will not. About one thesis, about the government's guarantee of the Republic of Serbia under public enterprises' responsibilities, we treat it as an SRS, it's like a new debt budget. Among other things, we put signs of equality. We've heard that it's not going to bring back citizens, it's going to bring back public enterprises. I think this is a very convenient opportunity, we had in the course of last year, I can't quite remember the date, the session where one of the points of the agenda was the write-off of debt that couldn't bring back some public enterprises, so then we found an excuse that it was a long time ago, that it was social enterprises, that they didn't exist anymore. In any case, the state guaranteed them, and when it came to the charge, the guarantee was activated. Companies didn't return to the state, and then it came down to the fact that this debt of the Republic had to be written off. Then we're told that you don't need new funds in the budget, no, but if you had one of your debts, so you gave him up, in order to make up for it, you have to go to the other side to be in debt. It's obvious, these are things that are clear to every economist. However, some new masters may not have, because they were in a position to campaign, a party where they spent many years in debt, and then they left it well, and the debt was left by foreigners, and they used the money for their campaign. Some responsible people who stayed in the party and whose economic knowledge is not for underestimation have remained consistent, have made efforts to service the debt to the state and banks regularly and to keep the party alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66180	It was used three minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66181	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that this extraordinary amendment by Mr. Buha has been directed in terms of the termination of the continued borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, and here it is specifically about the borrowing of JAT as a public undertaking, and so are our amendments to Article 3. However, the difference here is that it is a commercial bank loan, and Article 3 is a Unicredit Bank. You can now say, not personally, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if that's how you defended the Commercial Bank from the IMF and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, why are you against lending by the Commercial Bank? Because we suspect that the Commercial Bank will be owned by the Republic of Serbia in the first place by the end of 2012. We also believe that experience shows us that simply the Government of the Republic of Serbia and any pro-European government, whether SNS and DS will be in some aggregate state, does not matter to this amendment, simply has no courage, no political will to resist the pressure of the IMF and the EU. That's why we're against further borrowing. Also, we consider this borrowing to be the result of a very bad decision in 2007, which is the rejection of bids to invest in JAT by Aeroflot. Why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do that? Because of an open agreement with the EU, because the EU has conditioned that JAT cannot be sold to Aeroflot, which is one of the world's leading companies and would invest, and JAT's technique would be restored in the fastest and best way. Because of EU pressure, this is not possible, and that is why we have come to the position of Article 2 and 3 predicting further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to save JAT or to save the EU from having no alternative. Mr. Buha is therefore not here, but is handing over signatures against the EU to the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66182	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The 5th amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Vladan Jeremic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. () Since we have completed our search of all amendments, does anyone else want a word before I conclude the search? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE DANIZATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE UNIKREDIT SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE FOR THE BUILDING OF ANEX HANGAR 2, BROUGHT IN THE WORKING FUNCTION AND FUNCTION FOR THE ALREADY OBJECTED TYPE OF THE BOING 737 NG AVIATION AND EQUIPMENT IN THE OBJECTION OF CONSERVATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE TERBAS 320 BY THE OBLIGATION OF "JAT – TECHNICA" D.O. BELGRADE You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dragan Stevanovic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha and Vladan Jeremic on the bill. You received a report from the Finance Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66183	You know, as much as under some other political circumstances would make sense to withdraw some investment credit for any public undertakings under these circumstances, under such authority, political and fiscal irresponsibility, the SRS expresses the reserve and, if necessary, JAT – Technology is in charge of the purposes for which we are informed in this law that it should be in charge. It seems to me that there have been some means of public informing writing or stories of Jat-Technics doing well, that they can work, that they are already serving this today. But until things with JAT, above all, and at all with the public sector in Serbia are resolved and Serbia clearly sets goals in the structure or privatisation of the public sector, what will remain under its absolute majority or any control or how much participation in Serbia will be in the whole story. We believe that one of the reasons why this loan should not be granted at this time is no guarantee. On the other hand, one policy of unholy, unfeeling, uncontrollable borrowing has led us into a situation where your mentors have no confidence in the fiscal policy that you are leading, and think that Serbia must really no longer be in debt. The limits you have set for yourself in the context of public debt, the level of borrowing, you have breached them yourself, and you are showing them statistically as you show them using the methodologies that apply to you, i.e. give you space to additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we believe that this loan is very dangerous, as well as any of the others in this debt and credit or guarantees you withdraw. We repeat, until the position and situation with JAT is resolved to the end, what will happen to him, what fate will be his, we feel that this borrowing is not useful. What is also questionable is banks. Dispute is the Unicredit Bank. counterpart Mirovic talked all morning about her position, about her position. Are the citizens of Serbia or the Republic of Serbia or a public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia obliged to finance the losses of a bank that is on its knees and which is in serious trouble? We think they're not, and that's why we're against this law. That's why through the amendments, in which we said that all the members of this bill were deleted, we expressed our position in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66184	One minute was used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This is the last amendment in search of the 3rd item of the agenda. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the search on all amendments, and I conclude the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE HYPOALPE-ADRIA BANK A.D. BELGRADE AND SOCIETE GENERALE BANK OF SERBIA A.D. BELGRADE FOR THE PEACE OF THE CIVILITY DIRECTION OF SERBIA D.O.O.O. BELGRAD, ON THE BASE OF THE CREDIT ON THE CREDIT FOR THE CREDIT OF THE CIVILITY OF THE CIVILITY OF THE PUBLISHING OF THE PUBLICS IN BELGRAD You received amendments submitted by the MPs at the bill: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Krasić, Dragan Krasić, Dragan Krasovanovic, Dragan Štjanović, Žirović, Žirić, Mirjamić, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Mirjadić, Mirja Radko. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search in principle, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Group submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text, Serbia and MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66185	Ladies and gentlemen, it's probably the worst possible loan in this loan set, because it's on a 7% interest rate, which is scandalous. On the financial market in Russia and in Western Europe, there is a much more favourable possibility of taking credit in this area. We also find it scandalous to take credit from a bank that, as Mr. Stevanovic said, is one in a series of fallen banks from Western Europe, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is helping. Generally known, the minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia certainly know that the Austrian state has nationalised Hypoalpe-Adria Bank. In fact, in the last two years she's given her about two billion euros. It is about a bank that is on its knees, so to speak and simply see no reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and citizens will finance through the budget a bank that is failing and safeguarding social peace in Austria, rather than taking care of its citizens in the Republic of Serbia. It's totally unacceptable for us. We have another pointless situation, and this bank, which is practically nationalised by the Austrian state, will be financed by foreign construction companies. More specifically, companies such as "Alpine", "Pora" and other companies from Austria that are likely to build, as is the case with a bridge near Beška, with a bridge near Sava and all other infrastructure facilities, Austrian construction companies, not enterprises from the Republic of Serbia. So it's one chain, starting with a loan, from borrowing under loan terms to giving under unfavourable conditions for Serbian business builders to Austrian firms. It's just unacceptable. That's why we're against this harmful, scandalous and pointless loan. Of course, unlike the SNS who are not allowed for personal reasons to talk about Hypoalpe-Adria Bank, we can say clearly and loudly – no, we will not vote for this loan, it is harmful and is as harmful as so-called. A European path under the dogma that the EU has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66186	This used time at the disposal of the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group for 15 minutes. The parliamentary group has 22 minutes and 50 seconds left. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Dragan Stevanovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can't agree with all the arguments we've made. We are interested in whether anyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia knows how many more times we will discuss possible guarantees, i.e. the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the Building Directorate in Belgrade for the needs of Stepa Stepa Stepanovic, or the construction miracle of the 21st century in Serbia. We would really like the effects discussed on the project and the arguments used to present the project as a project that will raise the construction industry in Serbia. However, the effects have since the beginning, it seems to us, to this day, completely lagging behind. We want to hear if someone in the Republic of Serbia will tell us how many times we will be in charge of this need and how many times will it amount to? How many square meters of apartment tomorrow at that location, who wants to buy, is going to cost? In principle, the minister told us that thanks to this project, the construction company, i.e. the construction industry, had a 17% growth. For the same period of time, how many thousands of people are out of work? We simply don't recognize the effects of this construction expansion. We've heard that a thousand small construction shops have been employed and run. We want to see the effects. Where are the effects of this expansion of the construction industry on the revenue side of the budget, in VAT, taxes and contributions? What's going on? Where are the effects of all the money you take on the state and budget of the Republic of Serbia from foreign banks under unfavourable conditions? Mr. Mirovic did not include the 0.30% of the cost of granting the loan. That will also have to be paid immediately. Do you really believe this job will have the effect that we can get this back in the next three or four years? The payment period is three years. It's all right. Who do you sell apartments to in Belgrade? Well, you've even made up the Law of Planning and Construction. The issue of construction permits is almost stopped, that what was not sold to sell and only then to enter the process and cycles of creating new apartments, production, or construction of sales. Who are you selling the apartments to? On what terms? Who will be able to withdraw loans and buy apartments at Stepa Stepanovic's location? On what terms? How long? What, the state will subsidize loans? We're Germany or the Russian state, and I don't know which other state, so we can handle it? And without this billion-and-a-half debt, you've led public finances to a shootout. You know that, but you won't say it because it's gonna cost you, it's got a political price. Then something that perhaps in a developmental sense in a normal state can give the effect of both the condition and the meaning, it comes to our senses. We're sorry to have to talk to such dictionaries, not to mention our own state, but we're talking about institutions and those who have water, who have brought all this to nonsense. There is a word sufficiently vulgar and suitable for this atmosphere that can be used for the state of our economy, our economy, especially the construction sector. It bothers us, but you're not capable of changing that. The borrowing policy has led us here. The borrowing policy won't get us out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66188	Two minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP Milorad Buha, submitted to the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Group of MPs to advance Serbia and MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66189	Article 6 The bill should be deleted, as well as all other members because the SRS considers this a bad law, bad above all for Serbia's citizens. Why this is bad, we can look at it with two aspects. On the one hand, the over-indebted state, and therefore the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is such that you have heard these IMF friends tell you that you have exaggerated, and they have forced you to do so, let alone someone who is an objective economist and an expert on what can tell you about what you are doing. But even if there was no problem, and there is, we stress, this is your explanation that construction at the Kasarna site "Stepa Stepanovic" will be one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one of the measures to overcome the economic crisis in the area of construction, etc. is something that we in the SRS can't accept because experiences are different. You know, you from the government boasted that the innovative Law on Planning and Construction would speed up the construction of Serbia, that it would be a momentum for the development of Privreda, etc., it's theoretically true, but practice is different. Minister, I assume you've come up with information about what you've been building these apartments in Ivan Ribara, New Belgrade, you've concluded with people contracts at 800 euros per square metre. It was late to move in for five or six months. When it came to people moving in, they had to pay the difference, so the square was 1,200 euros, and people had already taken the loans. You, in the same way, how you operate as a state, or government, are also forcing Serbian citizens to function, because if someone paid 800 euros per square, and it comes to moving in, what to do, he returns the loan. How can he find a new one to pay 1,200 euros on that same square? So we can't trust you because that's the kind of experience you have with you. The resolution minister, Mr. Dulic, spoke about this Law on Planning and Construction, but everything absolutely in the context of this law and this article he talks about, how construction, in accordance with your explanation, the construction industry will flourish according to this new law, and then they will issue construction permits in some very fast time, etc., and it was not so. We all know that almost nothing is being built in Serbia, that construction permits are almost and are not being issued because the law is such that they cannot be applied in the way you are promising us. We knew that when the law was passed, but these days we hear a pearl when it comes to it. Alexander Vukic tells him, if, God forbid, he were mayor, to set up an office for quick answers, which would speed up the process of issuing a building permit and imagine how. The building permit is obtained in administrative procedure. The administrative procedure takes 30 days, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in exceptional cases, in the case of a particularly complex procedure, it takes 60 days. The wolf says his quick office will do it in 90 days. So, in advance, it violates the General Administrative Procedure Act. You want to be in charge and you will say again – we do not owe the state, but the state guarantees, and you just got asked by a colleague, Stevanović, if you guarantee someone's debt, and that debt is not paid back, that means that you are paying it back. Can you guarantee that there will be no need to meet this guarantee? I'm not sure anyone in the government of the Republic of Serbia would dare publicly say that it guarantees, as well as all these previous laws and debts that we talked about in these previous points of the agenda. Of course, as counterpart Mirovic said, we have a particularly controversial "Hypo Alpe Adria Bank", especially since it is the state bank of the state of Austria and it is just amazing that you want the Commercial Bank to take it from the state, that is, why you sell it to that co-owner, and on the other hand you want us to be in charge of protecting the bank of the state of Austria. Does that sound logical to you? It doesn't make any sense. This Hipo Alpe Adria bank is famous in this part of the world and in affairs. Sanader's stuck in jail. They say that something similar can happen in Slovenia, even in Serbia, but "Hypo Alpe Adria Banka" has shown one of its great insecureness in the state of Serbia. The media wrote a lot about it. It's a bank that gave Tomislav Nikolic, when he was 58, a 40-year-old loan, that he allegedly bought a 190-square apartment with that smart building in New Belgrade. We can't trust a bank like that. It's a bank that's proven to be inconclusive and irresponsible. Now, if Toma Nikolic doesn't get that loan back, then let's see it slip through this loan, so poor Hypo Alpe Adria bank doesn't get damaged. Of course, why do we mention Tom Nikolic and his credit? Because he showed all his passion and haughtiness two days ago in the media when he said that the court was not the place where he would answer charges against him in court proceedings, and yesterday, a man said he would no longer answer the court's calls. Imagine the citizens of Serbia, God forbid he comes to power like this, so that he behaves with great pride. Maybe just because he's a master of economics, and you, Mr. Minister, please consider this a parliamentary question, determine where he got that degree, as Wikiliks says he bought his degree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66190	Used five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text was submitted by the Group of 21 MPs of the Group of MPs to Forward Serbia and MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the group of MPs advanced Serbia and MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the group of MPs, forward Serbia and MP Boris Aleksic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st People's MP Group's Group's Group of MPs, Forward Serbia and MP Dejan Mirovic, submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66191	Again, it is a loan, more than a disputed loan and a scandalous loan with Hypo Alpe Adria Bank and simply, as Mr. Stevanovic said, it is actually a loan that exceeds 7% in the smallest possible account. But if we have in mind that there is a terrible crisis in the EU and that they are likely to, not likely, be forced to print money, that is. The European Central Bank in Frankfurt, in order to save what is called the euro area, will come to a logical conclusion that the eurobor, which is somewhere above 1% in this case, may again come to 5%, 6%, as it was a few years ago, and that this loan will cost the government of the Republic of Serbia and citizens over 10%, which you will acknowledge is a classic example of the interest loan. In that sense, we believe that this loan is bad, that it will be worse and will not contribute to any development of the construction industry, because it is clear that it will be given primarily to Austrian firms, as was the case with building bridges in Belgrade and on the highway of Novi Sad – Belgrade, but simply will lead to further collapse of our state, our economy and an increase in external debt already exceeding 24 billion euros. That is why we are against this loan, which is why we are against all these loans imposed on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, obviously from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, from the EU, from the IMF and all those financial institutions that bring nothing good in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. So our position is principled, our position is based on economic arguments and our view is based on breaking the phrase that the EU has no alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66192	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Does anyone else want a word, since this is the last amendment in order to search the details of the fourth item of the agenda? No, I don't. ) This concludes the search on all amendments and concludes the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO USE JAPAN INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AGENCY BY THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME OF THE "ELECTROPRIVRED OF SERBIA", BELGRADE You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasić, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milorad Buha, Radojko Obradović and Vladan Jeremic. You have received the Government's opinion on the p9-day amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since this is the last draft of a law to be discussed, i.e. a search in particular, on the basis of Article 90, I am informing the MPs that we will conclude the morning part of the session once we have completed the search of the particulars of the currently open agenda. If there's anything after 2:00, I'll let you know in time. Then after the search is concluded, we will determine the day for the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66193	The Serbian Radical Party, if I may put it this way, is our position on this loan and this guarantee of collateral damage to one fiscal responsibility that the government has promoted all these three, four years, as long as there is, when we talk about this government. Maybe I'm repeating something that, under some other circumstances, would really give effect and meaning, this government went after the hand and to make it go away. During the afternoon debate, someone talked about the superhuman efforts and the successes of the 21st century EPS to provide electricity, or how we couldn't, or had no need to turn off lights. Our view of this loan does not really reflect our relationship to the EPS, which has indeed shown that it can be a good company, that in certain conditions it can work, but above all, it must be free from irresponsible European policies, which are quieter and burdensome, and burdens it both in business and in terms of the number of employees, on the other hand, with irresponsible public procurement procedures etc. As far as this project itself is concerned, he is not controversial. We may not be able to dispute the maturity of the loan or interest. However, we believe, I repeat, that public finances in Serbia are strained and that they have been led to the shooting and that the Republic of Serbia has far-reaching jobs at this time to bring the end, to solve them, so that it can provide guarantees possibly for JP EPS and for these things. As much as the government promotes EPS, it should at the same time say that for this EPS, very few useful things have been done for this mandate. On the one hand, you've lost the biggest source, let's say, energy, or mineral wealth. As a result of gaining candidate status, it seems to us that you have given Kosovo and Metohija the EU, that you will give it to the Shiptars, for you it is not controversial, there is no difference. You're all European families. Our power system is objectively questioned, and I'll tell you why I'm saying it. On the other hand, for setting up or putting into function a renewable energy source for your entire mandate, and for the last 10 years you've done nothing or done very little, and where you've done terrible lobby groups are present and very cloudy actions. Investors who could bring good power to Serbia and the Republic of Serbia were driven out of Serbia because of the boastful behaviour of individuals. All of this is a fundamental system of electricity, i.e. the EPS, that is, the energy sector in Serbia has brought one serious question. On the other hand, it has been estimated that since 2015 Serbia will be in a major problem to provide for itself and produce electricity and become more energy-dependent than it is today. In one of the members of this bill, it says that the funds for the loan will be provided by the borrower from their own incomes. By listening to individuals who make decisions in the EPS today, we know at what prices and under what conditions they provide from imports of goods, under which conditions and burden of social policy run by this country, they sell their goods in Serbia and under what non-economic conditions they sell the goods. We suspect that the EPS under this administration will be able to produce and sell on one hand enough in time to finance and repay its debts. Of course, this means that, as in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EPS, all the dirty jobs that are present in the EPS are being cleared, and you know it very well, from the Kolubara, so that we do not list further, so that the EPS, as one of the most important resources of the Republic of Serbia, the development chances of the Republic of Serbia, is free from the pressures of irresponsible and blatant policies and that by introducing order, slowly and through time-responsible policy, puts it on its feet. The Serbian Radical Party believes it can do so by not changing its personal, but by changing its core policy, a policy that will give up EU policy, European integration, a policy that has really burdened us with our obligations to them. We believe that these changes can bring Serbia into a much better position, a much better position, where, above all, society and the state will begin to live easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66194	Three minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted amendments that we want no guarantee to be issued and this is the second day as we speak. As far as this loan guarantee is concerned, it is 28.2 billion yen of Japanese, or about 252m euros. Aware of the fact that the public debt has passed by law a limited amount, we have submitted amendments that all these guarantees are not issued. What is very important about this loan is that the representatives of the government should make a parallel between some of the other loans they took from their so-called European friends and their banks and the parallel with this loan. It will certainly come to the conclusion that there are financial institutions in some other places, that they are not European or American institutions, where loans can be obtained under more favourable conditions than they are. However, we had to submit amendments to this loan, that this guarantee did not go away, because we are aware that at the end of last year public debt was above the law of the permitted level. As large debt reflects economic reality, they have the opportunity to feel all citizens on their skin. All the arguments we made were from the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, which reached the National Assembly on February 21st. Also, the unpopular IMF has given its negative estimates, that this authority has some things that suit it and that some agreements that do not suit it. However, as soon as the arrangements have been made with them, some recommendations are implemented, some are not. We had the opportunity to see, because of some negative things and criticism from the IMF, that they had come before the Serbian government with proposals to increase the working age in Serbia and that one of the possible recommendations was a further increase in VAT. Of course, we are aware that now before the elections this power will certainly not and that the arrangements with the IMF are in some way frozen until a new government is formed. All of this has its own, we are aware of it all, but it is very much uncertain what of their recommendations will be accepted and what fate awaits the citizens of Serbia, if they continue to lead people who are so far or some other so-called economic experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66196	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66197	This extraordinary amendment by Mrs Lydia is due to our principled position that we are against the further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, even if it is about Japan that is not in the EU. Why is that our attitude? The best example is precisely a Japanese state that has over 200% of public debt compared to GDP and 20 years, and if it has an extraordinary economy and technology, it cannot come out of recession, because this public debt destroys both the economy and the export potentials that, you will admit, are much stronger and much larger than those in the Republic of Serbia. As far as public enterprises are concerned, we are for a neoliberal concept, and we don't think that now that this concept has failed in the West public enterprises should be destroyed. We're against further borrowing. We believe that there are other ways to help public enterprises, and this way is the abolition of the harmful State aid control law imposed by the EU and which has led to about 200m euros from 2008 to 2010, lower fees for our public enterprises, for our industry and agriculture due to EU requirements. There's a real problem here. This problem cannot be solved by further borrowings, either by Japanese banks, by banks from the SU, but by a principled and responsible policy that will understand that both European laws and so on. European standards are harmful to our industry, to our public enterprises, to our agriculture. When this is the Government of the Republic of Serbia in mind, then there will be no need for such bad borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66198	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66199	I thank Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, everything in this package of 13 laws that we are discussing today is missing one important thing. In the amendment, I proposed that all these laws comply with the Budgetary System Act, because these laws lack an analysis of the impact on public debt and lack all those economic effects, both positive and negative. Positive – is there any growth in employment and GDP growth in debt? Negative effects – what are the total interest and what are the total cost of borrowing as well as how it affects public debt. The amendment is not accepted with reasons that it is not clear enough and that it is not necessary. When we look at these 13 laws, I immediately say that there are no effects in terms of economy and jobs and total borrowing. I can only conclude one thing, that the government at the end of its term, and at its beginning, has no priorities. Practically these 13 laws predict borrowings for each different area. In an individual way, we can say that it is necessary to invest in health care, education, construction, electrical-energy systems, in road construction, whatever you want. The main question is whether the state has the power to deal with such accumulated obligations and what are the prices that result. In particular, the law which provides for the borrowing of EPS is one of the few laws I am sure the EPS leadership has provided and guaranteed the repayment of this debt. It's much more eloquent than the law says, said the EPS director. He predicted that the price of electricity in Serbia should be collected by 60%. Since the price of electricity is going to go up, practically 60%, it's clearly a debt-refunding model. Is that so? If we look at the EPS business results, we still don't have them for 2011, in 2010, the EPS had a loss of three billion and 200 million dinars, 30 million euros. If someone has a loss, it is clear that he cannot repay that debt unless the price of electricity is expected to rise. We're coming up with a question - what's the price of electricity? I am talking, of course, about Serbia's Elektroprivred, about any public enterprise in Serbia. We can talk about the price of toll, the price of any service, because prices are rising to a small door. Public transport in Belgrade cost 7%. How? The map's the same. The ticket costs 60 dinars, but now the bus-plus system is being applied, and you can't buy a single ticket anymore, but you have to buy a card that costs 40 dinars and goes for 10 additions. Each ticket instead of 60 now costs 64 dinars, although nominally your ride remains the same, but that service costs. The same is true of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. The power plant thought of one genius thing. When you look at the electricity bill and you look at the statement by the head of the Elektroprivreda about the price of electricity, they express the price without VAT, because they say it's our price, and we have nothing with VAT, VAT is a matter of state. That's genius, because the fuel is not actually 140 dinars, the fuel in Serbia is 65 dinars, because the excises and VAT are 70 and some dinars. It's similar with bread, bread is not 50 dinars but 18% less. The other thing is, there's no Zoran Shami, he's a mathematician, but there's Mrs. Comic, she's a physicist. This is a typical electricity bill. The average four-member family from Serbia. The price of a higher tariff is five dinars without VAT, the price of a lower tariff is 1.24. The lower tariff applies from 00.00 to 0800 in the morning. All those bills I've controlled have 10 times more consumption than the lower tariff. In doing so, 350 kilowatts is between one tariff and another tariff, i.e. 1,500 for these most expensive ones. I don't know any family, no account I've seen that hasn't broken through, we're talking about city families that have different spending. It is very difficult to provide solid fuel heating in residential buildings, etc. Of course, the price doesn't account for the accounting force, so you don't charge for a measured place, so when you take all that into account, so when you add VAT, then for that average account of 500 kilowatts you get that the price is 7.5 cents per kilowatt. How they calculated those 0.5 is not clear to me at all. When you look at the prices on the stock market, in Germany, 0.6 euro is moving for the same kilowatt, of course with taxes included. If we produce electricity from water and coal. The water is ours, coal is ours, if EPS workers have significantly higher salaries than in Serbia's economy, but it's far less than workers in Germany's Elektroprivred, how is the price the same? Where is this contribution of domestic labour, prices and electricity. Where's the contribution and how is the price supposed to collect 60%? Of course, the EPS director has very skillfully said that it will not be until the election, it will be after the election. We won't collect until the election, but as soon as the elections pass, let the next one see, especially when we leave him these 300 million we're taking as a loan today, and the EPS is a real loss, and the EPS is one of the best companies we have. You said, "This will not be brought back by the citizens." This will be returned by public enterprises. They're coming back, too. You raise my salary twice, so you can see how easily I'll be in debt and how I'll be paid back. This will bring back citizens, as by saving public enterprises, by protecting their inefficientness, we are destroying jobs in the economy. In the last four years, 400,000 people have lost their jobs, these are data that the PKS have been working on. During that time, public enterprises and the public sector had new jobs. It's a solution to both the pension system and all the other systems. In Serbia today, what is amazing, this is the 21st century, in 2012, we don't know how much Serbia owes. One methodology has the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a completely different methodology has the NBS, the third methodology has the Fiscal Council. The government claims that the debt of the National Bank is not a public debt because the National Bank will repay those debts. That's right. If it falls into the financial crisis, the 1.6 billion euros withdrawn from the IMF will return by broadcasting money. There's only a little problem. The IMF isn't receiving the dinar, it's receiving a solid currency, and when you go to the bank or exchange office to swap the currency for a solid currency, then what happens today happens to you is that the course goes up. Then who's paying back those debts, if not all of us together? The other thing is with these guarantees. Only last year were seven billion dinars that went from the budget to the cost of activated guarantees. We shouldn't have an illusion. Serbia's roads cannot repay loans, especially if they operate the way they operate today. Most public companies can't operate unless they apply that formula when they explain why their salaries are so high. He says we're not on the budget. Of course they're not on the budget if they have public authority and if they have a monopoly in their sectors, they're not on the budget. No one's gonna be on the budget. It's easy not to be on the budget, but where do they make those funds and how do they choke the functioning of the economy? Only the last four years have increased public debt, as far as the government is concerned, six billion euros, as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, eight billion euros, without the 1.5 billion that we are discussing today. The problem has arisen with the IMF because the guarantees adopted in the budget are bigger than those defined. This is one of them. Since the government has no priority, or priority has each of the coalition states, when you look at these duties you will see very clearly which company belongs to which party. And the parties define their priorities, right, Mr. Minister? You weren't talking about someone else, you were talking about a company run by your party. You did not say a word about other loans concerning the directors proposed by some other parties. All you talked about was the company where your camera manager is. It's not controversial, it doesn't have to be controversial, the government has authorized you, you talk about it. Let's not have any dilemmas. Eight billion euros has increased Serbia's debt, call it whatever you want. The future of this country is common, and yours and mine, and all the parties sitting here were either the government or the opposition, again some will be power, some will be the opposition again, but we will all share a common future. Eight billion euros were taken as loans, guarantees, whatever you want, foreign reserve support, whatever we want. That's what you, me, yours, my children will pay back. What is the result of the eight billion euros? Four hundred thousand jobs less in the economy and GDP which is smaller today than it was four years ago. This year, not that there won't be a 1.5% growth, God forbid it's zero. In Serbia, new jobs are being opened if growth is greater than 5%. We can only dream of such growth in a few years. Until then, we'll be losing our jobs. The situation, we compare with Greece, compare with some other countries related to the percentage of public debt. Public debt isn't math and it's not purely mathematical. The matter is far more serious. Are there conditions for the deficit to be less than today in 2012, 2013, 2014? They don't exist. Pensions from the budget alone are nearly three billion euros. So it will go both this year and next, and who knows how many years ahead, no way to solve this problem, because the pensioner's problem in Serbia is increasing at a rate of one to 1.5% a year, regardless of how frozen pensions are and what is being certified, but that is not the way to solve this problem. In the way the government led the policy by solving only budget problems, public debt service costs grew year after year. This year alone, it takes about 600m euros to service the interest. This is twice as much as is foreseen by this loan that the EPS is likely to put on its feet or whatever, and in order to keep its head above water, Serbia needs to borrow six billion euros this year in order to remain zero. It's so much the commitments that come into play, it's so much needed to refinance existing obligations and anything. Do you believe that the economy will be able to allow the budget to be charged more than today next year? Certainly not, as well as the price of electricity. What happens if the electricity price picks up 60%? What happens if the VAT jumps by a few percent? Is there some kind of funding tank in Serbia, so each family then takes as much as it takes to make up for it? Certainly not, and the consequences won't be unequivocal. If VAT is raised and electricity prices are raised, then these are consequences that are not linear and are not linear. Elevating the electricity price by 60% doesn't mean income growth by 60%, I guess it's clear to everyone. So the basic question is, what's the solution? Is there a solution? Of course there is, except it's a pretty painful solution. Once upon a time, when Nikola Pasic was Prime Minister, the government was in crisis and, of course, the king called him for consultations and, when he heard the situation was black, he asked him – Mr. Prime Minister, is there a rescue? The Prime Minister said -- of course, there's a rescue, but we're not getting out. That's the problem. They wouldn't leave the government. Is there a rescue? Of course there is salvation, but they are the salvation of all the measures that are necessary to resolve the situation. It is clear that the public sector is too smooth and that Serbia cannot handle it. It is clear that many agencies have fully agreed on a number of procedures, made a number of parafiscal commitments, that they have complicated the functioning of the economy and life in general. It is clear that the public sector, it may be necessary like this, but Serbia cannot handle it today. It is clear that public enterprises in this form cannot survive. Companies are inefficient, let's switch directors. And what does the board of directors do? The board of directors is this transmission. The director doesn't need to answer to the government. I guess the board of directors is the founders and owners of this public enterprise. What was the board of directors working for? How did the board of directors let us talk about things like that? Just look at the DRI report. The state audit institution wrote a report on public enterprises, most of those discussed today, and wrote about some local self-government. When you read that report, say, the average report has 150 pages, on each side there are at least three recommendations that some things are done badly. Look, they're sick, they're blacked out. Those reports are more black than white. As long as that's the case, as long as we don't talk clearly, simply, things will just get complicated. How is it possible that we don't know what public debt is? So we add, we put on one side what we owe, and on the other side what we have, we draw the line and we see. Well, it's not math, it's loans that have to come back. It's this loan. There is no one letter in this law relating to the credit to the Elektroprivred, which says whether the loan will make the power plant work more efficiently, to make it better, to create a hundred new jobs, to allow GDP to grow 0.1%. No, there's no word on that. In a situation where we have 0.5% GDP growth, each credit for Serbia is expensive. There is no loan and there is no economy that can make a profit rate of 10% or 15%, if it is legal production and legal economy. It doesn't exist. On the other hand, the direct government of the Republic of Serbia undermines the banking system and undermines the economy. How? By the government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to fill the budget deficit, paying interest at 12, 13, 14, 15%. It is known that debt in the country is treated as at least risky and does not require all of the reservations needed to finance the economy. If the government is financed by 14%, then the economy can only be financed at 5% or 6% higher rates. It means long term, then. It's totally weird how we pretend it's not like that. As long as she doesn't speak clearly and simply, it'll be a problem. Why the economy to raise the electricity price by 60%? To repay this loan. Do we have any explanation? I'm a construction engineer. When you come to apply for a job abroad, at any cost you have to do a price analysis and you have to show the investor how you got the price for any kind of construction work. What is the production of electricity prices for hydropower plants and thermal power plants in Serbia? Do we have that price? Is the number of employees optimal or are there more? Only after that can we talk about what's positive and what's negative borrowing. As long as that is the case, these loans will be adopted, it will be voted on, companies will remain inefficient, public debt will grow, we will not admit it is so much, we will say it is smaller, we will create a new methodology that will explain that it is not the 45 limit but 75, when we reach 75 we will create a new methodology that will explain that this guarantee has grown yet, until we are in a situation where most of the EU countries are. Just don't say it won't be paid by the citizens, because everything we discuss is paid by the citizens. The government doesn't have its own money, but it's the money of all of us who get together in one place and the government spends it the best possible way. Unfortunately, at the end of the term, we don't see that this government has learned anything. Unfortunately, all key problems and key solutions remain for some of the next governments, and their readiness depends on how we live in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66200	Thank you. The time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group and five minutes from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is the last amendment to the search. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Before we finish our work in today's afternoon, I'd like to inform you of the election day. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on the agenda points of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday 29 February 2012, starting at 17.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Thank you. For today, we are finishing our work and I am asking all the MPs to be at the National Assembly Hall at 17.00 p.m. so that they can start a vote on the debated agenda points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-02-29-0.u66201	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly for Voting exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. Please insert identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we are 126, i.e. there are working conditions. We move to a statement on the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON DANIJING OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, UNICREDIT BANK OF SRBIA A.D. BELOBRAD, ERST GCIB FINANCE AND B.V. AMSTERDAM, UNICREDIT BANK OF SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE AND AIK BANKA, A.D. NOT IN THE GALENICE OF A.D. BELENICA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that the National Assembly in accordance with Article 105. point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I'm putting the motion to vote on this guarantee law. Of the 127 MPs, 126 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 9th. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Society General Bank of Serbia, Erste GCIB Finance and B.V. Amsterdam, Unicredit Bank of Serbia a.d. Belgrade and Aik Banka, a.d. Nis according to the responsibility of Galenika a.d. Belgrade. We move to a statement on the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON DANIOR GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE USE OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK A.D. BELEGRAD AS THE National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular before the transition to decision-making I remind you that the National Assembly in accordance with Article 105(4), paragraph 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I'm putting this bill to the vote. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle before the transition of the amendment decision I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected amendments to Article 1 which were tabled in the same text by MP Zoran Krasic, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Members of Serbia, and did not vote on them. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the same text by Parliamentarian Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Vladan Jeremic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 5. The bill envisions this entry into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs has adopted the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Commercial Bank of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Action Society for Air Traffic, JAT Airways, a.d. Belgrade. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I'm putting this bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is under Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, so that the above amendment is agreed to Article 163(4). The Rules of Procedure won't vote. We're moving on to the amendment decision. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, all 127 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Unicredit Serbia a.d. Belgrade for the construction of Annex hangar 2, bringing in work function, maintenance and repairs for the already won type of aircraft Beoing 737 NG and the equipment for the acquisition and operation of aircraft type Airbus 320 under the responsibility of Jat-Technika d.o.o. Belgrade. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular before we move on to a decision, I remind you that Article 105 of Paragraph 3 is point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the National Assembly to decide by a majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I'm putting the motion for a guarantee law to be voted on. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle, and before moving to a decision on amendments, I would remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 163(2), paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure rejected amendments to Article 1 which were submitted in the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia and MP Zoran Krasic. The rejected amendments can't be the subject of a debate on them we won't vote and we're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group to Serbia and MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, two voted yes. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group to Serbia and MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group to Serbia and the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Finance Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 6. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group to Serbia and MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serb and People's MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment in the same text was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I'd like to remind you that it's Article 10. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". For the purposes of Article 196(4), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm putting the draft law on giving this guarantee to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes of all MPs the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of HypoAlpe-Adria Banka. Belgrade and Ssotte Generale Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade to meet Serbia's construction directorate d.o.o. Belgrade based on a loan contract to build residential business facilities at the "Stepe Stepanovic" barracks in Belgrade. We're moving to agenda five. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, before we move to a decision, I remind you that Article 105 paragraph 3 is point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the National Assembly to decide by a majority of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Of 131 MPs, 130 for. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The rejected amendment shall not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted upon, in accordance with Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. Please make a statement. Of 131 MPs, 130 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a guarantee law in favour of Japan International Cooperation Agency under the responsibility of the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade, by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search, and before we move to decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105. Item 3.6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the conclusion and validation of international contracts. I'm putting the motion to confirm the contract. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, pursuant to Article 163(2), is Article 2. Rules of Procedure, rejected an amendment tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia to Article 1 and by Article 163(4). The rules of procedure on rejected amendments shall not be voted upon. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/A, the City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/B and the access roads" in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill confirming a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/A, the City of Belgrade bridge on the Sava/B and the access roads". We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the bill, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105. Item 3.6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides most of the votes of all MPs on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee, pursuant to Article 163(2), is Article 2. Rules of Procedure, rejected the amendment to Article 1 which was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group to Serbia and pursuant to Article 163(4). The rules of procedure on rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, three for. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a bill confirming the guarantee contract (EPS Small Power Plants Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to a vote on proposals for the Law on Confirmation of International Agreements. We continue to decide on the proposals of the Law on the approval of international contracts referred to in points 8 to 27 of the agenda. I remind you once again that, on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the Laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, decides by majority vote of all MPs, since these proposals do not require amendments, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. The exception is the draft law of the 10th agenda, which is subject to the amendments, so that the National Assembly will vote in principle, in particular and in general on this bill alone. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CONSERVATION OF THE F/P 1739 OBLIGATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I would like to put to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Treaty on Loan F/P 1739 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda - Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE BOOK FOR THE DEPRECATION OF THE PURPOSE OF THE KOSTOLAC-BIND PLAN PROJECTS BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE AS A PUBLISHER AND KINESKE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK AS A POSITION I am putting on the vote of the Bill on the approval of the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the first phase of the KOSTOLLAC-B Project Plan between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Loan between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a BorrowerBajjan as a Borrower for the Finance of the Republic of Serbia I am putting the proposal for a loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig-Boljkovci, Bolkovci-Sova and Takovo-Preljena highway E-763 in the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected the amendment to Article 1 submitted by the 21st Parliament of the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia, and in accordance with Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, one is for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Since we have made clear on the draft law in principle and on the amendments submitted, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan as a lender for the financing of the construction of the shares of Ljig-Boljkovci, Bolkovci-Takovo and Takovo-Preljina highway E-763 in the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda - THE PROGRAMME OF THE COURT OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION OF THE FUND OF SERBIA AND OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK AND OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA "I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia "The Apex Loan for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Medium-sized Enterprises of Central Capitalisation II/C", in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS (PRODUCTION OF JUSTICE AUTHORITIES) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIONE BANK I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the Financial Treaty (Improvement of the Justice Authorities' Objects) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Japan in connection with the Project FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE TERMOELECTRANE "NIKOLA TESLA" I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Japan concerning the Project for the Construction of the Dispersion Plant for the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant in general. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 129 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Economic and Technological Saradics between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technological Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 15th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European NEU ORGANISATION FOR NUCLEARY RESEARCH (CERN) in connection with the STATUS OF ASSOCIATED MEMBER STATE AS A ENTIRE MEMBER STATE IN CERN I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of associated membership as a stage preceding the membership of CERN, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 16th item of the agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE EUROPEAN COURT ON THE FUNDING OF THE "EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL INCLUTION" Project I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on the financing of the project "Social Inclusion Education" in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We declare the 17th item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Lifelong Learning Action Programme (2007-2013) in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Amendments to Articles 1 and 18. Agreements establishing a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of maritime traffic, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Long-term Organic Contaminating Substances under the 1979 Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination at Long Distances, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Protocol on Heavy Metals with the Convention on Transboundary Air Contamination at long distances from 1979, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union establishing a framework for the participation of the Republic of Serbia in European Union crisis management operations, with statements by the Republic of Serbia and the Member States of the European Union on the waiver of claims in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. I'm going to cancel this vote. We'll re-establish the quorum. Since we're 127, we're pleading again. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on co-operation and mutual assistance in emergency situations, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the mutual protection of confidential information and materials exchanged in the framework of co-operation within the military industry, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, all 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. I remind the members of the College that we'll have a meeting tomorrow at 10:30. Thank you.
