ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5032	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present, which is why, in accordance with Article 88(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we can proceed with the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Maja Gojkovic, Ljubica Milosevic, Cedomir Protic, Slobodan Velickovic, Aleksandar Antić, Miroljub Stojčić and Milorad Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoters: Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister of Health, called on the members of the Ministry of Finance and Industry to attend and Vlajko Senić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ljubica Matic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry, Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance and Business of Finance and Business, the Ministry of Finance of Finance and Finance of Finance, the Government of the Ministry of the Government of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to work on a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 2 to 4, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. You've got time in detail in the materials. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the financial plans for 2013: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Fund for Military Insurance, the National Employment Service, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate income tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. (Judita Popovic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5033	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm actually setting up... (President: Excuse me for just one second, I would like to ask the MPs to listen to the presentation of MP Popovic. Here you go. ) The point is that I am calling for Article 97 and that is to say that the representative of the parliamentary group before the opening of the search has the right to propose a longer search period for the parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1, so that I would suggest that the time provided for the search be doubled on this item of the agenda. Given the budget, I think the importance of this law is immeasurable and it actually defines the country's economic policy for 2013. Therefore, it would be necessary to have one quality and good debate, and it again predicts that we have enough time to make all our arguments "for" or "against" this draft budget law. There's a reason, there's a reason to double the time it's scheduled to search this part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5034	Of course, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Given that LDP parliamentary group president Judita Popovic has proposed a longer debate in principle, i.e. that the debate time for parliamentary groups is doubled, this is a proposal the National Assembly will decide without a search. I'm putting on a motion to double the time of debate in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 52 MPs, against – one, with abstention – did not, did not vote 93 MPs out of 146, and I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5035	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to express my satisfaction that the government has kept its promise that the 2013 budget will be considered on time. When we discussed the rebalancing for this year, I suggested that we would break up with the poor practice of the previous government, that the budget should be discussed over the new year, rather than that we would deliver the budget in time, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act and that you would have enough time to study the law so that you could analyse it, give proposals for promotion, criticise it. We've fulfilled that promise. For the first time in six years, after 2006, the budget was again adopted in October and not at the end of the month, so it's been here for a month before you, in the Assembly. Our government thinks there's no time to waste. This is why we made the budget in time as the country's most important strategic financial document. In addition to being budgeted on time, this budget represents a radical shift in public finance policy-making compared to the previous government. Why? With the budget plan, we cut the budget deficit from this year and made sure to finally stop the exponential growth of public debt and interest costs. In fact, we've entered the fiscal consolidation program into two phases. The first stage was considered here in the Assembly in September. The first fiscal consolidation package has already set out to produce first results. Today, with a debate on the 2013 budget and a debate on the set of accompanying laws, we are actually considering the second part of the fiscal consolidation package, which fully stabilises Serbia's public finances. If we hadn't brought in the fiscal consolidation programme in September, this year I would have been a budget deficit of as much as 7.2% of GDP. This way, despite this programme, it will be extremely high and will be over 6% of GDP. It is the historic largest deficit in Serbia ever. However, thanks to the programme, the country's consolidated account deficit next year, so the republic, province, local self-government, will be cut to 3.6%, while the republican deficit will also be cut to 3.3% of GDP. Why am I saying that the results of the fiscal consolidation programme, whose first phase we adopted in September, have already been seen? Because this year's deficit is going to be about 20 billion dinars less than what we determined by the rebalance just a month and a half ago. In fact, the achievement of tax revenues in October and November shows that by the end of the year we will have more tax revenues achieved than what we have projected by rebalancing, which means that we were pessimistic when we were doing rebalancing, while expenditure, or savings on the parting side, will be far greater. This together will allow us to have about 20 billion dinars of less budget deficit this year compared to what the rebalancing is supposed to do. Why am I telling you this? Because this is an important starting point for the 2013 budget plan. In this sense, it is clear that the government has a clear intention to stabilise public finances to the end. These words of mine, that the process of stabilising public finances in Serbia and how it started, illustrate data from the international capital market, since the best indicator of the state of public finances of any country is the price of its public debt on the international market, i.e. the price at which euro bonds are purchased and sold. At the beginning of this year, the price of Serbian euro bonds in the international capital market was about 7.5%, and now the five-year euro bonds of the Republic of Serbia are traded at only 4.8%. I'm saying everything because it's a huge decline compared to these initials over 7%. Ten-year-olds are traded at a price of 5.8%. Both prices are lower than those achieved on euro bond emissions, one of which was made in September and the other in November with demand seven to eight times the bid. Of course, what is the objective of the 2013 budget is that shift in fiscal policy, which is to stop public debt growth and stop the exponential growth of interest costs. In fact, in the last four years, starting in 2008, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has been increased twice. So, there was a double public debt over such a short period of time, while interest costs were tripled. So they're six times bigger than they were in 2008. In 2008, interest costs amounted to only 14 billion dinars, in 2011, 40 billion, 64 billion and 2013 will be 90 billion. So we have one exponential cost-of-interest error. It was precisely a situation that could lead Serbia into bankruptcy, unable to serve its achievements. What's the problem? The problem is that Serbia must not only halve the budget deficit found this year, which we will do, but must continue to knock it down due to the momentum of public debt and interest transfers from the previous period. So, no matter what we cut the budget deficit, only the transferred amount of funding funds, i.e. public debt repayment amounts to over three billion euros. If this year's budget was balanced, the state would have to pay three billion euros to service liabilities based on accumulated public debt in the previous years. It's like getting into a cab and having the starting price you pay, driving 20 kilometers or driving only 500 meters. The starting price for Serbia is three billion euros as a result of irresponsible public finances over the past four years. To stop the exponential cost-of-interest growth, there are two solutions. We're applying both of those. The first is to reduce the budget deficit abruptly. Our plan is to reduce it to 1% in 2015. So, next year 3.6%, and in 2015, only 1% to make funding costs as low as possible in the current year. Otherwise, the huge inherited cost of funding from the past is. That's why the current costs have to be taken down as low as possible. The second thing, public debt with this budget will stop to grow to about 65% of GDP next year. After that, his fall will follow and our plan is to bring him down to 58% in 2015. In order to achieve this, the budget deficit must be radically downgraded to 1% in 2015 in the coming years and one part of the financing costs must be transferred from borrowing to revenue from the sale of a part of state property that is not effective. It's the only way to bring down public debt dramatically in the next period. We have proposed to the government a serious programme of medium-term structural reforms, which should lead to this goal. So, with the 2013 budget and the fiscal consolidation programme, we provide for a halt in public debt growth and a double budget deficit, but in the medium term the only way to bring down public debt and further reduce the budget deficit is to implement the medium-term structural reform programme, which our Government has proposed. So this is the current situation, and I have to say that this picture worsens and the fact that a large number of unpaid accounts were created in the previous years by different state users, from republican to local authorities, also funds. It's so-called. A fiscal deficit, which occurs when the state authorities don't account for a certain cost, and in fact it makes it a non-payment. These are, first of all, debts in health care, which are, on various grounds, 26 billion dinars at the moment. Only hospitals owe 13 billion dinars, and the Health Fund additionally owes another 13 billion dinars, because it pays for drugs for 200 days, which is an extremely long period. There are debts to the tolls, which are about 7-8 billion dinars in total. There are debts of local self-government towards builders, passengers and other companies in the private sector, and there are also debts from public enterprises to the private sector. They do not enter into this deficit classification at all, given that they are not registered, but we also have to attack this problem through, above all, stabilising public finances, allowing for a lower deficit and greater liquidity, to be able to clear these debts, but also to change the system so that these debts do not arise in the future. Cleaning up old debts, without ban, through a change in the system of continuing these new debts in the future, or later, would not make sense because it would be short-term. I'm going to talk more about it all these days, because this is just the beginning of a debate. Our programme includes not only the resolution of the classical budget deficit, but also the attack on the so-called. a quasi-fiscal deficit, i.e. the resolution of all these delays that currently exist from the state to the economy. If we're just talking about the 2013 budget, and that, the Republic budget, then I can say that we're projecting a budget deficit reduction of about 80 billion dinars. In fact, the republic's total revenues next year will be 965.7 billion, while total expenditures and expenditures will be a billion and 87 million dinars. The budget deficit will be 121.9 billion dinars. Compared to 203.4 billion, as foreseen by the budget's rebalance, it's a decline of over 80 billion dinars. As for the consolidated deficit of the entire state, it was planned for 222 billion this year, and in 2013, it will be 132 billion, so 90 billion lower than that period. This is a radical downturn, primarily due to savings on the bulky side of the budget. Of course, we passed some laws that increased the revenue side. In September, a package of three such laws was voted out, and now another one, it's a company profit tax law, so the revenue side next year will be increased, realistically, by slightly less than 5%, 4.8%, while real expenditure will be reduced by 5.2% compared to this year, and that total sum gives this consolidation, the downturning of the budget deficit by 80 billion dinars. What is the characteristics of the budget on the bulky side, since the spending side is the one most important in the budget? The characteristic is that we were saving on some items, and some were deliberately forced. We have forced agricultural expenditure and the agricultural budget will be bigger, significantly higher than last year, especially than the original budget. With this budget, we will reach 4.5% of the total budget, when we talk about the share of the agrarian budget in the total budget, i.e. the total budget for agriculture will be one quarter higher even than last year. When I say last year, I mean the rebalancing. Otherwise, when a combined effect is added to the original 2012 budget, then it is a dramatic increase, almost doubled the participation of the agrarian budget in the total budget, because all these previous years the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture was about 2.5 – 2.6% of the total budget, and now it will be 4.5% of the total budget. Our goal next year is to increase it to at least 5%, as promised. It also increases social security expenditures by eight billion dinars compared to budget rebalances. Since times are difficult, we felt it was necessary to significantly increase social responsibility, so these are expenditures that are also increasing. For the first time in a long time, we are increasing the budget for capital investment, and the direct one, from the budget, by about four billion dinars, as well as project financing through loans for the construction of highways and modernisation of railways, energy facilities, which we will mostly take from China, the Russian Federation, as well as international financial organisations, such as the European Investment Bank, the BRD and the World Bank. Capital investment will also be financed by borrowing, under favourable conditions, but also by direct financing from the Republic budget. For the first time, we also introduced three-year planning of capital investments. This is a big newspaper compared to the previous period, because we have established that budgets in the previous four to five years for capital investments are not regularly executed in the scope approved by the Assembly. One of the reasons for this is that every year those who carry out capital investments from the Republic to the local ones were obliged to re-implement and re-implement public procurement processes for investments. The projects had to be divided in phases, and then those projects couldn't be completed. They're very slow to realize. We are in preparation for the full programming budgeting, which we intend to introduce for the full budget expenditure structure, firstly with the programme planning of capital investments, so that according to the new Budgetary System Act and under this 2013 budget law, for the first time you will see planned expenditure on capital investment for three years, which means that in the following year, whoever is carrying out public procurement will be able to make full public procurement for the whole project, regardless of which there is no funds provided in 2013 for a complete project, but has been provided over a period of three years, as seen by the draft budget. Then he won't have to repeat public procurement in 2014, so in 2015, he'll be able, once he's finished, to complete the whole project. This will improve efficiency in realising capital investments. As for economic subsidies, we decided to stop funding losers, but to focus our money on the perspective economy ourselves. The big news in this budget is that you no longer see guarantees for the liquidity of public enterprises, which has been a regular case in the previous company – five years. All guarantees issued relate exclusively to capital investments. All borrowings in that budget relate exclusively to capital investments. No longer providing liquidity guarantees, for example, "Srbigasu", or JAT, or other public enterprises, but we can only grant a guarantee for capital investments. Why? Because we want to radically break up with the wrong system of funding losers. It refers to the so-called State-owned enterprises in restructuring. One of the laws that we are proposing, we will limit the restructuring deadline for the next year and a half, until 13 June 2014, it has to end, and at the same time, we are reducing the subsidies already in the budget for the next year to such enterprises, though, only by half a billion dinars, but that is a clear signal that we want to stop seeing such incentives of unspective production and to invest the money we save in those who have perspective. Loss on the basis of subsidisation, direct and indirect, at all levels of the state, amounts to between 700m and 800m euros annually. They account not only for direct subsidies received by companies from the Republic, the provinces and to locals, but also for not paying bills for electricity, utility, non-payment to the private sector, non-payment to creditors. When all this is included with 800m euros, companies with almost no effect on the growth of Serbia's economy are subsidized annually, and this simply has led to the point that they must be cut. We give companies in restructuring a year and a half to find partners with our active support for those companies for which they can find a partner and where there is an interest or there is the possibility to take down restructuring, so that the company is left on the market to do business even in state status. Such a case will be with RTB Bor, for example. This will be the first half of 2013 to bring down the restructuring process and it will only be on the market without any subsidies and help from the state. Some other companies have run for office, such as the PKK, which says it can survive on the market on its own, so we're going to raise their restructuring. There are others we have noticed that the performances have already come into the situation so that without that protection that prevents them from being independent on the market, so the goal is to solve it completely for the next year and a half. As far as public enterprises are concerned, our strategy is to try to privatise some of these public enterprises where they can be quality enough to be on the market alone, and among others, that through the process of liberalisation the price comes to be self-sustainable, and that, on the other hand, through an appropriate social policy, protection of endangered layers of the population that cannot pay the right price of services. A change is also important in one of the laws we're going to talk about next week, the Law on Public Enterprises. The Republic Government will no longer give consent to utility prices. It will be exclusively the jurisdiction of local self-government, cities and municipalities to decide for themselves and to assess in their city what policy should be led. The finance and trade ministry will no longer give consent to decisions on the prices of local utility companies. This budget makes significant savings, above all, on the item – purchase of goods and services. This means material expenditure, material costs and also reduced one part, as I said, the economic subsidy partly because the subsidies used for the Fiat project will no longer be used, and in part because we reduced these subsidies to restructured enterprises. What else is completely different from the previous period? It's the introduction of financial discipline. Right now, all the delays I was talking about wouldn't have arisen if there was a basic financial discipline in the system. It would not have happened that the Health Fund is 200 days late in the payment of medicines, that the average payment deadline in Serbia is 135 days, that in the country, above all in the Ministry of Finance, when I say – the state – public finances I think of the Ministry of Finance, to be absolutely clear, that there was a basis and will to introduce financial discipline. How are we going to introduce financial discipline on multiple fronts? First, we have already amended the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which allows the Tax Administration to control and unregistered enterprises, and the process of control starts from January 1st. Secondly, in this budget, in certain members, we empower the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance to control whether the ministries, then state authorities, the province or local self-government are regularly paying towards the economy. We will limit the law to which we will discuss on Monday the deadlines for the state for a maximum of 45 days. The state will become a liquidity generator in the economy, and today it's completely the other way around. Today, the state is the biggest indifference generator of the economy. We want to make a turn here, make the state the first one, then the private sector has an obligation to pay within 60 days, that the state pays a maximum of 45 days, and the private sector within 60 days. In order to ensure that this is done, we, Article 12 of this law, have provided for mechanisms to control and ensure the regularity of payments both at the level of the Republic and the province and local self-government. This is what this is about – where can late payments occur? They can be created in the execution of expenditure on goods and services, they can be created in capital investments and can be created where the Health Fund pays towards the pharmaceutical industry. Serbia's "Roads" towards the roadways, the ministry towards other expenditures on capital investment. We have passed a regulation that all budgetary users will be obliged to deliver in electronic form to the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance data on their commitments, on when they arrive at payment, the deadline may not be longer than 45 days after 31 March, and then, after a certain period of time, after 30 days, if the Treasury sees in its own condition that payment for a material service or for some capital investment is not made, it will suspend payments to that ministry in all other applications until payment to the economy is made. That way, we'll have complete records and that will apply not only to the Republic. The Republic vault will be controlled by republican ministries and republican public enterprises. Through the province and local vault, we will control the discipline in paying local authorities and the province. If the provinces and locals are to be delayed by paying more than 45 days, transfers will be suspended, i.e. the transfer of some of the income tax and wages in Vojvodina. So by absolutely this law we get all the instruments to introduce order and financial discipline in public finances. Then the question arises: where will they pay for it? They'll be paid from the liquid assets we've also provided. When I became finance minister, there was almost no reserve of liquid funds to carry out current expenditures including pensions and salaries and all other purposes. We had a weekly fund-raiser, a moon trap. Now we have provided advance funding for the needs of the state for the whole first half of next year. Before the conclusion of a $1 billion Russian loan, we now have the money to finance all commitments by May of the month. With the Russian loan, we'll get over it. We will never again allow the state to have at least six months in advance to pay in liquid terms. By cleaning up the delays we found, hospitals, tolls, tolls and one programme that we will launch specifically for local self-government, in a few weeks, and will begin to apply from 1 January, we will also be able to provide local self-governments with payment of capital investments due to 31 October to the private sector. By March 31st, we will literally bring all budget users into a position so that they can make their payments within 45 days. We secured liquidity in the Republic. Now our idea is to take it further to the province, to the municipalities, to the economy and to the citizens at the end. That's the goal. It's a complete plan to stabilise public finances. As for some specificities in the budgets, there were a lot of speeches yesterday on the Vojvodina budget. The budget of Vojvodina in 2013 will be 8.4% of Serbia's total budget, i.e. Serbia's total tax revenues, in line with the Budget System Law, above the prescribed minimum. I listened yesterday, there was a lot of demagogy, a lot of politics. I'll only speak in numbers. So the previous Budgetary System Act established a basis for the return of the Vojvodina to 750 billion dinars. The new Bill on the Budget System is a minimum base of 837 billion dinars. So it's much bigger than it was under the previous Budget System Act. On this basis, 7% is 58.6 billion dinars, and Vojvodina will have 70.5 billion next year. Vojvodina will have nearly 15 billion dinars more than last year in the original budget adopted by the assembly on a proposal from the government whose composition corresponds to the composition of the current province government. So, last year, according to those data delivered to all parliamentary clubs and members of parliament, especially from Vojvodina, who were always interested in this matter, they know that the total budget that was designed for Vojvodina was 57.7 billion dinars, and now it is 70.5 billion. Plus as much as possible, another 2.7 billion dinars will be used under article 33 of this budget law. Unfortunately, when you read that article, you'll know what it's about. That budget would then be 8.7% of the total budget, not 8.4, as I just said. Minimum is going to be 8.4. As for the budget of local self-government, it has been increased in the original transfers by 2.3 billion, from 33 to 35.3, and has been further increased by 4 billion dinars in order to maintain the routes that the previous government, i.e. the Serbian Roads, has passed on to local self-government some 6,000 km. For that, 3 billion dinars were provided for so-called. investment maintenance of roads. A kilometre of 500,000 dinars for each municipality and a schedule has been made for all municipalities in Serbia in proportion to the number of kilometers they have taken over. This will then allow, unlike the previous period when the maintenance obligation had a public enterprise, "The Ways of Serbia", to be realistic, nor could it physically arrive at all municipalities of Serbia, these funds are now being used evenly across Serbia's territory and relatively many kilometers. A mile, 500 thousand dinars. The many kilometers of these former regional roads in the municipality are so dedicated to each municipality on a very simple scale. These funds are projected not to be allocated to local self-government budgets, but exclusively to the contractors in the approved situations to be approved by the municipality. Therefore, municipalities can independently or jointly hire contractors to repair these local roads, former regionally, those 6,000 kilometers, and when they check the situation, payment will be made directly to the contractor, therefore, the construction industry. The only exception is the winter cleaning, i.e. maintenance of roads where 900 million dinars will be transferred to "The Ways of Serbia" that will organise road cleaning. These are some of the key newspapers adopted by the new budget law for 2013. In the end, let me conclude. Where's the difference? Instead of the huge historical budget deficit, it will be twice as low. Instead of an exponential continuation of interest expenditure growth, this growth in interest expenditure will be halted from 2014. Instead of falling 2% and recession, we're going to have moderate economic growth of 2%. Instead of a double-digit deficit in the current account of the foreign trade balance, we're going to have that deficit shot down. What's very important, instead of a situation where no one pays anyone anything and where there's anarchy in public finances, we'll have order and discipline. I hope that the Republika Srpska Assembly will support this radically new concept in managing the public finances of the Republic of Serbia, because we think that the organisation of public finances is not enough to get out of the crisis, but it is certainly the basis and the first step towards it. Without safe, sound and disciplined public finances, without preventing late payments, there is no state in economic terms. The economy can't work if the state is torn apart in finance. So I expect support for this budget, because this is the first step, the basis for stabilising the country's full economic opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5036	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5037	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, one of the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia said a few weeks ago that the budget was a product of torment for the ruling coalition. Let me say a few sentences about this product being tormented by the ruling coalition. Meanwhile, the budget is rather radical, to use this word, amended, as we have received several amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the proposed budget, and some of the main items in the budget are changing. I'll try to use this latest data. I don't know how realistic it is for GDP growth to be 2% next year and I don't know how realistic inflation is in 2013 to be 5.5%. These are some estimates of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that's real, but I doubt that's true. We'll see in the coming months if there's going to be one rebalance, if there's going to be two rebalances, how sustainable these data and these projections are. State Secretary Senic, however, suggested a higher growth of the economy than the projected 2% in the coming year is possible. I encourage it to appear that he was right, because it is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know how realistic that is, once again to underline it. The draft budget envisions 281 billion dinars of donations to the PIO Fund, which is more than a quarter, about 26% of all expenditures. We haven't heard anything about how sustainable it is that in one country so much money goes to the PIO Fund. Of course, I'm not saying that pensioners shouldn't get their own money. On the contrary, I am not talking against pensioners, but I am talking about the state should do something more in the interest of growing employment, having as many jobs as possible, and not coming into the situation that there are as many pensioners as there are employees in the Republic of Serbia. This is not sustainable in the long run in no country, so it cannot be sustainable in the Republic of Serbia either. You said capital expenditures would be increased by about 4.1 billion dinars. We'll go back to this information, because this is definitely good. That means that the budget is to some extent of a developmental nature, but I don't know where the funds are then planned for capital investment in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but I'm saying, I'll come back to that question later. You didn't say anything about whether or not it's true what the economic journalists say, that there are about 20,000 extra employees in the public sector? How does the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to deal with this problem? Again, I want to underline that we are not in favour of layoffs, we are in favour of the Minister of Finance and Economy saying something about how he wants to resolve this problem and whether this problem is existing, whether this problem is real. It is also said that it will be necessary to change labour legislation in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that's not on the agenda yet, but if so, then it wouldn't be bad to hear a few sentences about what this will mean next year, taking into account this data provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the 2013 draft budget. You didn't say a word about the two-month-old state being in charge of the entire 1750 billion dollars. These conditions are relatively favourable than the conditions of borrowing in the previous government mandate, or the National Assembly, but the shorter and the term of the Eurobonds sold, which is probably what a few sentences should say. You mentioned very frankly that public debt is around 60% of GDP, or that it will reach 60% of GDP. That's what the Fiscal Council has been talking about for years. You know very well that the limit is maximum to 45% of GDP, so it would not be bad to say a few sentences and whether amendments and amendments to the law are planned, so that the state would simply function within the legal frameworks, i.e. that the state would be legal. This is how you knowingly break the law every year. I could say a little cynically that if you constantly break the Constitution year after year, then it's not a problem that some laws are individual, even if they're systemicly broken. We haven't heard the details about the Russian loan. We don't know why the Russian Federation still hasn't made a final decision on this, or why they haven't even started negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Russian loan, and when will the Russian loan come here on the agenda of the National Assembly? I mean ratification. Of course, I think it's still on a pretty long stick. If I wanted to say a few sentences on the positive elements of the 2013 draft budget, I would have to single out the funding of national councils of national minorities. This is projected at 240 million dinars, and the last rebalancing was 235, a budget adopted just over a year ago was 230, which means there are some small shifts. Since we want to be objective and realistic, it is certainly commendable, such as praise and agrarian budget. You singled out the fact that the entire agrarian budget will be around 4.5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but farmers will not get 4.5% of the budget. Agricultural producers would like the agrarian budget to be 5% in the sense that the allocations for agricultural producers are 5%. I hope that happens in the coming years. We know it's not realistic for that to happen overnight. As for the total subsidies in agriculture, it is, according to the latest amendments to the government of the Republic of Serbia, 34.1 billion dinars, i.e. about 3.2% of the budget, or the budget proposal for next year. Before I move on to the issues of funding of the AP Vojvodina and its competences, I would like to say a few sentences on a single amendment that we have submitted, which is not related to the financing of Vojvodina, since the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has delivered, as you know, three amendments relating to the financing of the province, the SVM amendment refers to the financing of the inter-academic mixed committee of historians. You know very well, Mr Dinkic, what is it, since we had an amendment literally in the same form and last year when you were a member of Parliament, the head of the URS parliamentary group and you voted in favour of that amendment. I hope now that the Minister of Finance and Economy is in office, you will also find it important that this solution contains the budget for next year. It is a commission established by the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. They deal with identifying civilian victims in Vojvodina during and after World War II and on the Serbian and Hungarian sides. We, like last year, proposed 10 million dinars for the work of this inter-academic mixed commission. Surely you know that the President of the Republic, Mr Nikolic, has reached an agreement with the President of Hungary, that during the following year the two will bow together to the victims of the Second World War in Vojvodina, both Hungarian and Serbian innocent victims. It would be an extremely bad signal when the funds for the work of this inter-academic mixed commission, which investigates these scientific developments, would not be defined. When it comes to financing the AP Vojvodina, I'm very glad you said a few sentences on the issue. I agree that we should deal with facts, figures, figures, not politics, but this does not only apply to MPs coming from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but it would be desirable to refer to members of the republican government as well. I'd like to talk about the numbers. You didn't talk about the fact that two months ago the Budgetary System Act was amended, that at that time it was a fully redefined basis for calculating those 7% and you presented the data, projections about next year as if that base hadn't been changed. You brought that data out as if this base was counting on tax revenues last year, and you know very well that it is not true, since the base until two months ago was income and income from the sale of non-financial assets, not tax revenues. However, I must say that the Budgetary System Act does not even say that tax revenues are the basis for tax revenues, but are the expenditures from which tax revenues are financed. If we want to stay on the field of figures and figures, then I have to say that incomes and receipts from the sale of non-financial assets are 965 billion dinars, according to next year's projection. Tax revenues are 837 billion. That means the base is down by 128 billion dinars. This means that Vojvodina will not receive six billion dinars next year more, as your colleague from the URS parliamentary group said yesterday, but will be nine billion dinars less. I have to say, the province government is wrong, because the difference isn't 9.6. It's nine billion dinars. They have not seen these latest amendments to the government of the Republic of Serbia. According to these amendments, this base is shrinking by 128 billion dinars. So the numbers, Mr. Dinkic, are not on your side. You can't mix grandmothers and frogs. You can't mix pears and apples. If the basis changes, then you have to look at what that amount would be on an unchanged basis, and we don't have to go from tax revenues being the basis last year, because it simply doesn't fit the real situation and it doesn't match the facts. That's what goes for 7%. You have not said a word about how the second part of the famous sentence of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 184 of Article 4 relating to capital expenditure, will be realized. At least three weeks of those 7% should go to Vojvodina for capital investments. This is the first budget, i.e. the first draft budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which, or in which no transfer funds for capital investments are provided, in the sense that AP Vojvodina authorities can freely dispose of these funds and can freely determine what capital investments they want to realise. I want to explain to you a little bit more in detail what I mean, so you don't say I'm wrong, since a billion and 100 million dinars are foreseen for capital investments. Vojvodina Clinical Center 600 million, 450 million from the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, 92 million from the NIP, that's fine. But, in accordance with the principle of decentralisation and regionalisation, I think it would be okay to have the means of certain heights that the province of Vojvodina can have autonomously. For example, in 2002, 3.7 billion dinars were envisaged for this purpose, in 2011 three billion dinars, in this draft budget zero, in letters of zero dinars. I think it should also be taken into account, as I must say, that some 10 billion dinars can be found in various places, so there can be around 10 billion dinars in various places, which we can book as funds for capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There are mostly wars, credit payments for this year, flood protection of 96 million, wastewater credit in Subotica 81 million, the Baymek border crossing 5.2 million, highway eight billion. That's about 10 billion in total. With these billions and 100 million totals of just over 11 billion dinars. But once again, I want to underline, with no AP dinar, the Duke's autonomously available, and this is now the first time since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we can say, based on these figures, and there's no politics, there's at least 14 billion dinars missing for capital investment. Why do I say at least 14 billion dinars? Well, because you said how much the AP Vojvodina budget would be. It takes three weeks of that budget, and three weeks would be at least 24 billion dinars. It's just not like that. I think, Mr Dinkic, that it was fairer that you said – ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Republic of Serbia is able to provide 7% for Vojvodina, but since the crisis, since it is a major deficit, since we are facing the problem, because we had, to quote you, not you but the new government, is an irresponsible former regime, we simply are not able to provide it, we will be able to next year. But, no, you kept that detail quiet. You have failed to deny the fact that you will deny Vojvodina for at least 14 billion dinars of capital investment, that it will result in the dismissal of several thousand cases in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in construction firms. Because simply, they will not be able to pay these workers, because the province will be insolvent as it has been for years because of yesterday's non-political detail that Vojvodina has been denied by about 70 billion dinars since the beginning of 2007. Another little detail that shows how decentralist and regionalist you are. Now a very dangerous solution is envisaged. According to this solution, I would quote from the Budget Proposal – For the funding of the national and investment plan relating to the implementation of the projects launched as well as the funds for the start-up projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina's employer, the minister is in charge of the national – investment plan. The funds implemented shall be recorded in the Republic's budget as expenditure incurred on the province's budget. The funds will be implemented by transferring the province's budget towards the dynamics set by the minister in charge of the national-investment plan. This is Article 23. It's a bill of law. Where there is decentralisation and regionalisation, Mr Dinkic, that funds are received from the republican government on a spoon, that funds are obtained by some political criteria, or I don't know what undefined criteria, and that the province of Vojvodina does not have in general, it will not be able to service its debts that have accumulated in the previous six years because each year the budget has been counter-constitutional. Speaking of decentralisation and regionalisation, and I'm going to end this, I think we should talk about how the local communities will survive next year after being abolished by the recently amended Bill on the Budgetary System, the possibilities of their own income, the acquisition of their own income from these local communities. We agreed, Mr. Dinkic, about a year ago that local communities are also extremely important. I suggest you propose amending this law to allow local communities to function, to live in the interest of citizens living in the territory of these local communities, and that is also important because of decentralisation. In the end, let me just say one more sentence. For all these exceptional reasons, we will not be able to support the draft budget unless the amendment to the AP Vojvodina is adopted because in this case the draft budget would be in line with the Serbian Constitution. Thank you. I expect answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5038	Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5039	Thank you. First let me answer these general questions. You asked why the Republic of Serbia issued bonds during this relatively short period of billions and 750 million dollars. For the reason we want to secure funding in advance. So we're not in charge of financing the deficit this year, we're in charge of closing the first half of the next. So it's only because of the liquidity plan and it has nothing to do with the situation this year. I think it's responsible and we'll continue with that style in the next period. We won't wait a minute to 12, but we always want at least six months in advance if we have the funds. In this respect, negotiations on Russian credit do not need to be conducted in haste. Considering, as I said, by the end of May, we already have enough resources right now. So we expect to start talking by the end of the year on the basis of President Nikolic's and Putin's agreement and that a billion-dollar loan will be realised next year, we won't even ask for a withdrawal in the last quarter of this year, because we don't need it. As for your proposal for an amendment to finance the inter-academia mixed commission, since it was not addressed to the budget process, a month ago, we could not even put it into the original text of the budget, but we will certainly accept it as your amendment, because I was also for the last time when I was an MP and it is perfectly natural that we will now respect it and provide the current budget reserves with these 10 million dinars to finance this mixed commission. As far as this basic question is concerned, it's about the basics. I agree with you that this question should not be politicized, but what's true is that years ago this base that you are now mentioning has never been used. I always, in my presence here, hold the budget for the previous year brought by the previous government, used budget funds as a basis for calculating those seven percent for Vojvodina, and last year it was 750 billion dinars, and now it's the basis for the new Budgetary System Act 837 billion dinars. So it's significant more. If this base you're looking for were to be used, 7% of that guarantee minimum for Vojvodina would be 67.6 billion, and according to our Budgetary System Act, Vojvodina gets at least 70.5, more than this base you're looking for. Essentially, if we are talking, we are not giving 7% to the Vojvodina, but 8.4%, although it is a minimum of 7% and thus we are showing responsibility both according to the respect of the Constitution and according to the respect of the province of the people of Vojvodina, just as we respect all citizens of Serbia. Let's get into the structure a little bit and see that it won't be all the separations. You are absolutely right, that the province should ensure that there are funds for capital investment that the province decides on on its own, but then the province cannot seek funds to cover losses and get both, to decide on new projects on its own, while the Republic covers losses based on some other projects that I am now going to tell you about. Let's get into the structure of these 70.5 billion dinars that are meant for the province. First, the province will have 18.1 billion dinars on its own on the basis of tax revenues belonging to the province, from salary taxes and from profit taxes made on the territory of the province, which is significantly more than it was in last year, so 18.1 billion dinars, and that is the basis. Then, the transfers of others who, together with these tax revenues, account for 56.7 billion dinars of funds intended for Vojvodina, according to the same calculation methodology as it was done years ago in this assembly, or by the previous government. As for the capital part, 600 million dinars were provided for the Vojvodina Clinical Hospital Centre, something you did not mention, 675 million dinars were provided from the Republic budget on behalf of the payment of bonds to Vojvodina Development Bank, which is also accounted for in capital investments, since the cost of the previous period is covered. Also, as you said, there are about 450 million dinars from the Ministry of Regional Development of Local Self-Government and from NIP 92 million. With the same budget formulation you've been talking about, which has been rewritten for years and hasn't been changed this time, I agree that it should change in methodological terms. In addition, direct borrowing of the Republic of Serbia for one of the projects that the province's prime minister himself told me was the most important capital project in Vojvodina, which is the construction of the Novi Sad-Rum highway with a tunnel through Frusko Gora, 12 billion dinars is intended for Vojvodina for the capital project. So, directly, the Republic will be in charge of a capital project on the territory of the province. As for the delays that exist at the Capital Investment Fund towards the contractors of the work of the province's authorities, according to construction firms, travel companies, if you have looked at Article 34, we predict that through the emission of the republican bonds we are resuscitating debts for capital investments, in conclusion with October 31st for the province and for local self-government. The programme will also be offered to Vojvodina, the province of Vojvodina, as well as to all other cities and municipalities in Serbia. We haven't said what that amount is, because the total level of these guarantees is up to 300m euros even, because we don't know what the debts are. Please let us know how much the debts of the province's organs towards the economy, according to the contractors, so we can calculate precisely, because we don't know what the debts are. Also, based on what we heard from your colleagues in the province, another 2.7 billion dinars will be required based on that member that we also didn't calculate in these 70. These 70 billion are what we certainly know will be invested in the territory of the province of Vojvodina, according to the methodology adopted in the previous period, which I agree with you that it may not be good, but for those four months, as far as we had to make this budget, we made it, in the first 100 days, we could fundamentally alter the methodology that the previous government, which is now with you in the coalition in the province, have used the previous four years, but I want to change it for the next budget. I suggested that we adopt a law on the financing of Vojvodina, where we will define exactly what the original incomes are, what they are, and then that we no longer have this kind of debate every year. According to the same methodology, as was done in the previous four years, the province will receive 70.5 billion dinars, of which 13.8 billion dinars for capital investments, and 18.1 billion are its own tax revenues, and the rest of the transfer funds, plus some undefined money to settle delays since the Republic doesn't know how much the province owes, plus maybe 2.7 billion dinars per article 34, to preserve financial stability, because there are now some signs that the province government will ask us to do so. I would prefer that we do not give these funds to cover these losses that we talked a lot about at that previous session, rather than to give the Capital Investment Fund for new projects. I hope that, when this situation is cleared from the past, including the cleaning of all those responsible politically and criminally for what has come, that next year we will have one normal budget for Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5040	Replica, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5041	Mr. Dinkic, thank you for these answers and for being honest, I don't think we've had these answers in the past few years, you've practically admitted that there are some funds missing for capital investment in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Maybe I was wrong not to miss 14 billion, but 13. I'm still a lawyer, not an economist, so maybe I couldn't catch all this data scattered in the draft budget. I'm a lawyer, I'm not in good relationships with numbers, but I know what a legal state is, and I know what a rule of law is. I know that by these principles, especially by the principle of rule of law, the Constitution should be respected, whether anyone likes it or not. We agree on my free estimates regarding 95% of what I was saying. I agree with you and on the need to pass a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, but I just don't understand if you're regionalists, why this task force was formed without the representatives of the AP Vojvodina, why this practice of the former regime continues as it wishes to be said by the new regime and why the representatives of the government of Vojvodina or the Assembly of Vojvodina are not in that working group. You asked me what the debts of the Duke were? I can't answer that question because I'm not a circuit officer. I'm a folk MP, but I suggest you ask Mr. Pitiæ that, not because he's responsible for those debts, because he's not. These debts have been due to years of violations of the Constitution since 2007 and here. I suggest you ask Mr. Pajtic that because one of your colleagues on Vojvodina's TV the other day said that you almost daily are talking to Mr. Pajtic, so I suggest that tomorrow or the day after that, when you talk again, you ask him this question and we go to the joint forces to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5042	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5043	Just to clarify one detail, this working group on writing the law on the financing of the Vojvodina is in the process of forming. So, the Republic has established its members and we have asked the District Government and the Assembly to provide us with the names of members from the province so that we can work. A realistic deadline to complete a good law on the financing of Vojvodina is in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5044	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5045	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, I would also like to welcome Mr. Senic, who has joined us. We're starting a debate today on the most important law of the year, the budget law. It's a good thing after a long time, since I've been an MP and in the last session, this law and debate, and I suppose its passing, we start on time. It is also good that, at least how much we have been able to learn from the information funds, that an easy agreement has been made on the draft budget itself, when it comes to various ministries, because we have had the opportunity to see in the last few years that the ministers were solely concerned with how much money they would get for their ministry. They didn't have a bigger picture, which means both reality and the moment the state is in. It is clear to all of us if Serbia is in a difficult situation, which is why it is important for all of us to have a budget that will be a picture of reality, not utopia. We're sick of the proposals that get us out of one break-in, and they're pushing us into another, and I think it's finally time for us to go from breaking in small steps to smaller and smaller break-ins. We've also had enough of those who, for years behind us, promised that we'd jump out of the abyss on our wings, and that we just needed to, of course, wave our hands. Unfortunately, we have heard this too often, and worst of all, many have believed it. Let's just remember the theory that Serbia in the global economic crisis saw its chance to profit economically and I think it's enough to talk about it. This is why today's debate should not be a pre-election campaign, as unfortunately it was yesterday when we talked about Vojvodina, but rather a debate in which it must rationally defeat demagogy and exclusion. Again, I underline it to everyone more than clear that a long period is necessary for the recovery of the Serbian economy, as it is clear that this budget cannot be developmental. It is simply an inert of the budget deficit inherited from the last government, but also from some other governments, and that is why we now have a situation in which real debt needs to be settled and, more importantly, to make one balance between income and expenditure. Unfortunately, this government, at least for now, has no courage to give up populist ideas, which is best seen in the case of pensions, as well as in the continued subsidisation of social enterprises, losers who unfortunately are not yet privatised. Since the thirteenth pension, which we have rebalanced, let me say, we are much more interested in the essential and root reform of the pension system, where once and for all, it would be determined who is truly and honestly earning his pension, and to whom it is donated. I will remind only that in Serbia today, an employee is going to be retired and that we are one of the worst countries in Europe and the world. I'll also remind you that more than half the pensioners, no more, but slightly less than half the pensioners are under 65 years old. Such an audit, which is a big deal, would lead to an improvement in the pensioner's position, and the thirteenth pension that is positive and which helps one of the most socially endangered categories is only temporary ceasefire. It should also be said that the situation in which we are in, which is not since yesterday, is the direct consequence of the wrong policy that has been going on for years, I would say for decades, of a policy without courage, of a policy based on public opinion research. It should be said that in the years behind us we have been wasted without measure and that this has broken all the limits, when it comes to public expenditures and deficits. It is fair to say that the past government has taken over some of the obligations that the current government must respect, such as: payoffs to peasants, subsidies to the Fiat and obligations to trade unions and others, but to the Gods and obligations to Vojvodina, as it says in the Constitution. When we talk about the budget, there are good solutions here, and it's seen that to a good extent, it's been rationally approached by its design. It's a good thing in times of severe crisis, let's just say they don't end their own income to educational and health institutions and prisons. It is also good that for months behind us we have more tax revenues achieved, as you said, but the SPO and the Democratic Party are in this parliament opposition, so I will still use my time to criticise and perhaps some of the misunderstandings and misunderstandings that we have when it comes to this budget. In the real economy, reducing the population's income leads to a simultaneous decline in consumption, and thus the income of the economy. If we have higher inflation, it reduces the number of products sold despite higher prices, so this leads to a real drop in tax revenues. Now let me ask you, Mr. Dinkic, if the current consumption of households of 2% falls, then how will GDP growth of 2%? I suppose you're going to say that you planned an 8% investment growth and a 7.6% net export growth, but I'm asking you as one of the people who, I say, have been in high positions since 2000, who have been through all these difficulties in which the state is, is that realistic at this point, and is such optimism realistic? In your draft fiscal strategy, it is said that private sector cannot be expected to make investments, that it will be done by the public sector. We don't see how much money it is, and whether it has anything to do with the already announced "The Development Bank of Serbia". Unfortunately, the budget has neither a list of assets nor a list of all state agencies, nor a number of employees. There's a lot of shit, or there's no explanation about the subsidies at all, and by this, I have to say, this budget reminds us of all the previous ones. It is also very unclear, and I suppose we are very interested in both MPs and the public, which are criteria for subsidising investors per job, which are in fact some kind of public partnership between the private sector and the state, that decides which privateer will receive thousands of euros per job, which will receive tens of thousands of euros. As before, this budget has neither an analysis nor a cost structure at some level that allows discussion. For example, there is no budget for the health fund or the PIO fund, which is also interesting, as there are no complete budgets for local self-government. Also, there is no analysis of the impact of the subsidy on the economy. The budget tells us clearly that we still don't miss the chance to miss the chance. I'm saying this because obviously there will be no more significant reforms next year, which may be real to someone, meaning neither in the area of pensions nor in the field of health, nor in the field of education, nor in the area of social policy, whose mouth is full of some of your coalition partners, think of those who plead as left-wings. These are, of course, the biggest consumers of the budget, and we all know that serious governments, the biggest changes, are made in the first two years of their rule, in all understanding, that you are facing very serious and difficult problems and the difficult state in which the state is. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party consider 2013 to be the right year for root reforms, which unfortunately would seem to be missed again. When we talk about these major changes, we must make it clear to the citizens that they cannot raise salaries at the same time and promise that no one will get fired when the employment in the private sector falls. That's exactly the lack, that's exactly the continuation of populism and lack of courage, I'd say even the disease that the last government had. I'll just say one example of how Germany did it. After months of debate, public discussions on the budget, came out of the crisis and increased exports, by reaching a social agreement, that they would minimally lay off people, but that they would cut profits. One Germany. We continue to use the demagogy of populism, not firing workers who are employed on political lines in public enterprises and local self-government, and we all know very well that in every public enterprise and local self-government there are people who do not do their jobs, and unfortunately receive a salary at the expense of those who work with private or pensioners. When we speak to the public debate on the budget, it is true that the budget is made on time. It's also true, as I said you've been relatively and easily agreed, but where's the public debate, where's the conversation with people, where's the opportunity to maybe bring out and hear different opinions? I will remind you that there is a public debate in Slovakia for six months, when it comes to budget formation, that in the United States, 13 months is being debated with anyone who can help when it comes to budget formation. Unfortunately, we have a public debate, and not only a public debate, even the information that MPs receive comes down to a very shocking information or information that comes at the last minute. The government must show that it is ready to tighten the belt even more, to implement heavy measures such as the release of surplus employees in the public sector, as I have already said, state subsidies reform, which is extremely important, the abolition of guarantees, the resolution of the fate of non-vativised enterprises, this is important both because of cost cuts and the credibility of the IMF, but also because of other potential investors. We also think it is necessary to pass a law on regular compliance with corporate obligations as soon as possible, because the state owes over 110 billion dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, we expected that the government would significantly increase the amount of money to invest in production, agriculture, industry and less in trade. We must not forget the fact that today we live off production, productivity and employment. One information is more than frapantic and calls for not only caution, but also urgent action, which is that we are 1990/1991. In Belgrade, there were about 230 thousand industrial workers, and today there are only about 30,000. On the apart side, despite some positive changes that have been made, there are still a lot of irrationalities that can be cast out. I will only point out to compare the cost of travel to the Ministry of Education with some social issues and thus to further save on the bulky side of the budget. The state must no longer be a producer, as some would like, to go back to a period of communism, but is there to create a better economic environment. That's why it should strengthen your guillotine regulations, which we support, and I hope it's not just part of the election campaign, which you showed for the first few months. We expect it to continue. It is widely known that many domestic and foreign investors resent investing in Serbia because of long-term, complicated procedures that represent a real defence for those who can start jobs and hire. It should also be noted that many of the municipalities are a source of corruption, but they only use the gaps the state has made for them. When we talk about these things, it should also be said that much of our recovery depends on Europe, more specifically on EU countries. Although we constantly point out that we have other strategic partners, our two largest foreign-political partners to which we export are Germany and Italy, not Russia. Russia is our important partner when it comes to oil and derivatives imports, but we, in Russia, have to say clearly, export less than to the Republic of Serbia. It's not any strategic partnership. I think when we talk about the budget that's important to say, but it's even more important to bring the state's strategy into line with these undeniable facts. The budget deficit found at 121 billion dinars is lower than this year's deficit, significantly. The government's proposal is to finance new debts, loans and issue securities of value, which will further increase the overall level of debt of the Republic of Serbia. We are also concerned about the fact that we need 526 billion dinars to finance the deficit and to pay off the main debt from previous loans, which is more than half of the total revenues and receipts foreseen for 2013. In the structure of the income itself, VAT revenue is the first to take part, which could have been expected for 429 billion, of which 293 billion are made by the collection of taxes on goods from imports. From the traffic of goods and services in the country is 133 billion. This information shows us the fact that we are still a country with high imports and this goods of broad consumption and that our companies with their goods and services are not competitive enough either on the side or on the domestic market. The government should at least short-term administrative measures reduce the possibility of imports of goods of general consumption and give domestic producers a chance. I mean cosmetics, food industry and textile goods. These administrative measures should not mean that there is a chance again for inefficient enterprises, which, on the basis of these measures, would hold unreally high prices and thus pay for their ineffectiveness, because we have had the opportunity to see it over the past period. That the space for action is spoken and what every citizen can convince himself of, which is that in our nearest environment, because I come from Somboro and are close to Hungary and Croatia, I can also confirm it personally, significantly cheaper these goods and products from imports. Therefore, something must be done to reduce the impact of import lobbys. That'll make the goods cheaper. We must show courage and desire to finally deal with monopolies. The excise income has a significant share in the total revenues of the 225 billion budget. Of which 104 billion are excises on oil derivatives. If we know that the country's imposings are the largest in the retail fuel price structure at the pumps, it is clear that the government is responsible for the fuel price, which is high for our opportunities and as such are certainly one of the causes of inflation. You said something that's good, which is that the government doesn't participate in forming utility prices at the bar. If we all know that energy prices affect everything else, including an increase in the price of oil derivatives, it has led to a significant increase in the price of municipal services across all our cities and municipalities. It is, however, at a time of crisis and lack of work quite a blow to the citizens and their home budgets. For me, it is also an interesting part of the budget relating to the financing of labour and administrative districts for which 466 million dinars are foreseen. Looking at this figure relative to the total budget, many will say that this figure is negligible, but we all need to make it clear, especially who is in politics longer, that from the establishment to the present environment they haven't found themselves in the state administration system itself. I even believe that almost all parties that advocate balanced regional development and decentralisation, that these counties do not see in the system as it is today. That's why I don't see the reason, and I think the government could still take advantage of the opportunity to strengthen the role of the county as a bond between the central government and local self-government, or to shut it down and thereby disburse the budget. It is particularly a question of financing the district from Kosovo and Metohija, where the question is once again what the state is paying for in Kosovo, whether our state-run mirage or the arrest of party first fighters, testified and self-proclaimed patriots? These days there were announcements from the Ministry of Energy and Finance that the government would not subsidize losers, our large public enterprises, and the budget envisioned the means of guarantees needed for the task of these large systems with business banks and foreign creditors. I think it's basically not a neck, it's a neck. The draft budget shows very clear commitments for JAT, "Srbigas", "Galenik", some Kosovo municipalities, as I have already said, and that in this situation in these companies and municipalities, it is unchanged and that they exist on the burden of all citizens for years. Through the budget are also the financial plans of the regulatory bodies, offices and institutions agency, which means that since their abolition and regionalisation of their jobs, at least for the time being, there is nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this budget, I'd like to take the conclusion down to maybe two points. One is that the budget is ambitiously imagined and in terms of income and budget deficits will be very difficult to achieve. The second, which may be my subjective position, which is that this situation we have has been going through for years and decades, and that the reason for this condition is that the state of Serbia has no host and that only the situation can be improved when the host is returned to the state of Serbia, when he gets his true host, his monarch and when Serbia becomes a monarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5046	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5047	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, esteemed fellow Members and fellow MPs, the 2013 budget discussion is impossible to conduct as an entirely independent debate on something that follows without looking back on what has preceded him and the situation in which we are currently in place, and I am exceedingly referring to the state of finance of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has been running a budget deficit policy for a number of years, a growing one, which is increasing every year. I'll remind you that the last time we had a budget surplus was in 2005, and that since then, the budget deficit has been growing. So he is leading the policy of the growing budget deficit, which is because of the global economic crisis and its implications, which is due to the irresponsible and undisciplined budgetary policy that has been led. This culminated, and I use IMF representatives' words, unsustainably high levels of the 2012 budget deficit of 6.8% of GDP, following budget rebalances that reduced the deficit. The continuing multi-annual incremental growth of the budget deficit has led to a duplication of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which also has serious consequences for the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'll remind you that in just four years, from the end of 2008 to the projections for the end of this year, the public debt of the Republic rose from an incomplete 30% to almost 60% of GDP. When high unemployment and inflation rates are added to this, which exceeds the envisaged framework for the third year in a row, it is clear that the situation in the Serbian economy is very complex. What makes us Social Democrats concerned is that all these parameters are reflected in the most vulnerable categories of population and how this problem is treated by the 2013 Budget Proposal, as well as whether it is working to find lasting solutions to Serbia's accumulated fiscal problems, so that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia can have at least a decent life. There will be more words about this during my brief analysis, as long as it allows, probably the most important laws that the National Assembly makes in one year, budgets for next year and its effects. For the very beginning, I would like to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all its ministers, and especially the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, because by proposing the 2013 budget, in November, they paid their respects to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this home. The citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly have the right to receive this document in time, to study it well and to have enough time to discuss it in quality. I am primarily referring to the opposition, which has gained more than enough time in this way, to the quality of the discussion, and possibly to the amendments to the draft budget still fix. We of the SDPS hope that this act is a timely presentation of the budget to all interested public, a permanent interruption of the practice of budgeting in one minute to twelve. This increases the predictability and transparency of the financial positions of the state, which increases the confidence of operators on the market and potentially has a positive impact on economic growth. As far as the 2013 draft budget is concerned, its broadest assessment may be that it represents a bold shift compared to the previous years' budgets. This budget, however, reduces the deficit of the 2012 budget from 6.8% of GDP, so to speak, to a more acceptable 3.6% in 2013. This is a radical step, and in this sense I will remind you that this, as I have already said, is the first time since 2006, that the budget deficit has decreased, shows that the government has had enough courage to break off the practice of permanent, unreasonable borrowing, which has led us to the brink of failure. If neither the citizens nor the MPs, and most of all the government would relax too much, we must stress that what some call it is, an apocalyptic scenario still possible, at least such signals come from the professional public, and we from the SDPS call all the decisive factors to further very cautious action. The first chance we'll get for it may be soon enough. That was also said by Minister Dinkic, as projections show that the 2012 budget deficit could be slightly lower than the projected 6.8% of GDP. Those funds are not allowed to go into irrational consumption in any event. They must be saved, or transferred in the following year, or targeted towards those who need these funds most. The fiscal adjustments in the budget have been made on both the revenue and expenditure sides, and thus, regardless of the very significant growth in budgetary allocations for the payment of interest on the commitments made, which I will remind you, in relation to the uncontrollable growth of the public debt, the budget deficit for the coming year is significantly lower compared to 2012. The biggest contribution of the deficit reduction on the revenue side was achieved by reforming the tax system, which increased rates for different tax forms, with the biggest effects on the budget of the value added tax, i.e. the VAT from 18% to 20%, the corporate income tax from 10% to 15%, which is also the subject of this debate, as well as the increase and change in the way excise duties are calculated, with the most important changes indicating the change in the way in which excise duties are calculated and the value of excise duties on oil derivatives and excise duties on cigarettes. Of course, SDPS supports these measures as extorted and at this point only possible, but with one serious fence. In some future fiscal adjustments, the social component will need to be taken more seriously when planning budgetary procedures and we will insist on this next year. Namely, with the undeniable characteristic of the betrayal of indirect taxes, which includes VAT and excise duties and which, of course, are exactly the tax forms and have been chosen for an increase in tax revenues, they have one extremely unfair feature, which is that they equally affect all layers of the population, both the poorest and the ones with the deepest pocket. It's long-term, from our point of view, inadmissible. We urgently need a reform of the tax system, which will mean a gradual shift towards greater dependence on the fairer and so on. direct taxes, such as the annual income tax of citizens and property tax. The poor reputations of the population cannot pay the price of other people's mistakes forever, so whenever a problem arises, the greatest burden will be on them. This suggests that after the adoption of the budget for the following year, firstly, reducing the tax burden of work that would stimulate employment, then, halting consumption tax growth and ultimately making up a comprehensive reform of direct taxes, and that by increasing revenues based on these taxes, the deficit is compensated by the proposed tax redundancies. Of course, we understand that this is not a job that can be done overnight, but we are still appealing to the government and the competent minister, to take this recommendation seriously, if nothing else, even for the sake of those Serbian citizens who probably already have these days in the month, while we are discussing this, do not know how to survive the next salary or pension. As far as spending foreign budgets are concerned, the biggest savings are made on public sector and pension salaries. Again, it is a measure that linearly affects the layers of the population of different levels of wealth, which will say that it is extremely unfair. The injustice of the current wealth distribution system has been mitigated to some extent by limiting the maximum income in the public sector, introducing order into the income payment system and giving one-time assistance to the poorest pensioners, i.e. pensioners under 15,000 dinars. It is indisputable that all the measures listed are good and that the SDPS supports them. What's not good is that these measures aren't systemic, because they don't solve problems permanently. We are going back to the topic I was already talking about, Serbia no longer has time to lose, it has to move urgently from the application of measures that solve the current problems, to measures that create a lasting framework for the sustainable development of the Republic and the prosperity of its citizens. The current situation, in which Serbian citizens obviously have an understanding of the accumulated problems the government inherited, will not last forever. That time must be used to more seriously approach the process of structural reforms of the public finance system, which, for the truth's sake, is already under way. Many experts warn us of this need and its urgency, but more importantly, we are expected by the citizens of Serbia. The oldest citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to offer them a permanent solution to the problem of funding the PIO system, so that they can feel as calm as possible, as well as to restore their dignity to the decent pensions. The continuation of the practice of real pension cuts, on whose inadmissibility the World Bank also warns us of, is unacceptable and will bring a large number of pensioners to the brink of hunger. In order to prevent such a thing from being extended, it must stop with the principle of linear pension increase. Those who have lower pensions should get a higher percentage than those with higher pensions. In this way, such a balance could be created in the future in pensioners’ incomes and prevent further humiliation of the oldest categories of population. As for the largest consumer in Serbia, the PIO Fund, its reform has been a topic that has been discussed for ten years, and unfortunately very little has been done on this plan. The fact is that during the years of the crisis, it was almost impossible to reform the second and third pillars of pension insurance and more seriously to reform the first pillar, i.e. the PIO Fund. It is also a fact that there have been several years with very serious revenues from privatisations, that there have been valuable actions from certain profitable state-owned companies and that, by forming an initial portfolio of these funds, it could have gone into transformation of the PIO system into a serious investment fund, which in perspective could function far more independently than the state, than it is today. In order to make it more clear to the citizens what and why I am talking about, I will only point out that budget allocation has been proposed, in other words, donations from the PIO Fund 2013 budget, which is 281 billion dinars, representing more than 25% of the total expenditure of the budget. The subsidy system has seen changes this year, I'd say, for the better. In particular, we look forward to the amendment submitted by the Government to subsidies in agriculture, i.e. an increase of around 8 billion dinars. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia argues that these funds are directed more towards small agricultural producers, give stronger incentives to the family business in the country and strengthen co-operation. We also believe that state agricultural land should be granted under favourable conditions to young people who see their perspective in the country. By creating new successful food producers from these young people with appropriate incentives, it would make the story we keep repeating about food as the export chance of the Republic of Serbia not just a dead letter on paper. On the other hand, subsidies to public utility companies are becoming a rock around the door to the Serbian economy and their position is becoming unsustainable. The exit from this situation must be sought in a more socially fair approach, which would mean that instead of unreally low prices that produce enormous losses to these companies, at the same time unnecessarily saving those of our citizens or groups of citizens who can pay the real price of services, they form the price of services, to form instead of such unreally low cost economic prices for the services of these companies. For categories of population that cannot withstand newly formed prices for system solutions, and I am particularly referring to the creation of a social map, adequate assistance should be provided in this case. In this way, we would once again show some kind of solidarity to those who have less. The implemented fiscal decentralisation in 2011 and following the increased transfer of funds to local self-governments which, according to the expert public, did not follow the corresponding transfer of commitments to the local region is negatively reflected in the budgetary position of the Republic. That is why this government must neither believe that it will allow this money to be spent and used to divide the plan among parties in power in the bar. The money must be spent on the well-being of all local community citizens, not just for the benefit of local party heads and their loved ones. Tom has to get in the way once and for all. Greater control of budget spending at the bar, which is prescribed by the draft budget ahead of us, as well as criminal policy towards those who do not respect it, must definitely be respected to the last letter in order to prevent it. Also, it would not be bad to examine again whether some local authorities are being transferred the amount of funds disproportionate to their commitments. Here, as an example that could serve the city's reputation, I would like to cite the city of Belgrade, which, on this basis, is not being transferred any funds. Is it possible that no other municipality or city in Serbia can give up any surplus funds it receives from the Republic? I don't believe that only Belgrade has the means to give up completely this transfer without any other city being able to give up or the municipalities in Serbia can't give up at least parts of the funds. I don't mean underdeveloped municipalities. I think of those cities that are more developed in Serbia and that would thus show solidarity with the Republic and ultimately with all citizens. Sharper control and increased discipline on the side of budget expenditures, introducing income payout order and new employment in the public sector, abolishing the item – our own revenue in the budget, we estimate as good and necessary measures, but not enough within the longer term. The public finance system in the Republic of Serbia needs a deep analysis of all costs and cuts, so to speak, of the least useful among them. I'm talking about those costs that can be reduced without paying too high a price to the other side, for example. on the social security side of the most endangered groups. It is clear, however, that in the hundreds of days of the government, with the fact that budgets arrive on time in the Assembly, it was unrealistic to expect all jobs to be completed. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia and Serbian citizens, however, have the right to expect to pay more serious attention during 2013, as serious cost analysis and application are a prerequisite for long-term fiscal consolidation. One of the good steps in this direction that I would point out and praise is also the acceptance of the quarterly budget control adopted by Minister Dinkic on a proposal from the Fiscal Council. This measure sends a good signal to all interested, and in the first place I think of potential investors, about increasing the discipline of predictability and transparency of the budget. The reduction of some dissonance in tones coming from the Fiscal Council of the Ministry of Finance and Industry is further encouraging because reaching a broader consensus in society with such an important legislative proposal can only be a good sign for all those who are considering investing their capital in the Republic of Serbia. As some kind of conclusion, we can say that the proposed 2013 budget represents a series of necessary, largely extorted compromises that were necessary under the conditions of the country's difficult financial position. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia only sees this draft budget as the first step in the necessary fiscal consolidation on the mid-term, and I hope that what Minister Dinkic said will be translated into a practice that should result in a significant reduction in public debt and sustainable economic development. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the 2013 draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5048	The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Ministers and distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and the People's Parliament, and today during this presentation of the budget by Minister Dinkic and yesterday on the Finance Committee, we had the opportunity to hear very optimistic estimates of Minister Dinkic's 2013 draft budget, positive estimates of how the budget deficit will be reduced and how a turn-over and a turn-off has finally been made in poor government policy over the past four years. The fact that Minister Dinkic continued to support this so bad government, even when it was expelled from it, will not be commented at this time, but I believe there was an opportunity for the previous four years to affect the government's disastrous policy, if it was so truly disastrous. What concerns but not only when it comes to this draft budget, but when we have also had a proposal for rebalancing in this assembly and several laws relating to this matter is the different view of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, on the one hand, and of all the competent institutions, on the other hand, where thinking is not just about some cosmetic thing or some small thing. It is a matter of reasoning that is quite serious and which, I think, requires more explanations than what we had the opportunity to hear and yesterday at a session of the Committee on Finance and today at the session of this assembly. I hope that we will have the opportunity at least to get an answer to the question – which is why so many reasonings are coming and why the Ministry of Finance knows which times does not accept the suggestions of the Fiscal Council, if we go from the facts, and I hope that this is something that we all think, that the Fiscal Council, which is elected in this assembly, makes people who, thanks to some expertise, experience and qualifications, are chosen to be here and if we respect the role of the Fiscal Council that we have all set together in this assembly of laws. The first reflection is similar to what we had when we adopted the rebalancing, which is the estimate of the deficit. The fiscal council then said that the deficit would not be what it was designed to be, and now it is. We heard the minister say the deficit would be 3.6%, while the fiscal council and the IMF consider it four or five percent. They believe this planned deficit reduction is a good turn, but will most likely not be fully achieved. However, it is not just a point in the deficit rate. The point is, that's how it gets to the deficit. What we have had the opportunity to see from the budget, hear the presentations and see in the estimates, which all MPs have received, which the Fiscal Council has sent to Members for insight, which is that the basic idea is that the planned reduction of deficits is achieved by increasing taxes and reducing the growth of pensions in the public sector. That, you'll agree, means the standard of citizens will be worse. Because if you raise a person's taxes, which will pull back and raise prices, which already happened in GDP growth, limit their wages, that can only lead to their living standards being worse, being worse. It's not just about reducing the deficit, it's about seeing how it can still be done. The fiscal council has proposed a whole series of measures. However, as we later see from the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, very few of these measures or none of these measures have been adopted. What is also further concerned is that the revenues of the republic's budget are planned to be optimistic, but it is likely to be achieved as a result of the acceleration of inflation. So on the one hand, we have an increase in income through tax increases and inflation increases, and on the other hand we have a reduction in expenditure, but not one that would actually mean some structural or fundamental change. We have a reduction in expenditure through the fact that citizens will be confined to salaries and pensions. You will agree not to form a basis for some great enthusiasm and therefore, do not mind, a large number of MPs do not share your enthusiasm when it comes to the 2013 budget. On the contrary, we are expressing concern with this budget. The fiscal council provides a series of additional measures to keep the deficit in the planned frameworks without in any way going in the public's pocket. We see that none of these measures have been adopted, none of these measures have been taken by the Ministry of Finance. I therefore ask the question – why is there such a big difference in opinion between the Fiscal Council, on the one hand, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand? The fiscal council further assesses any savings in capital expenditures. They would not be in line with the good practice of managing public finances. The following year, a reduction in the share of capital expenditure in GDP was planned, which is not considered adequate for the level of economic development and the economic cycle in which Serbia is located. You insist on it. Of course, it is the MPs who will decide who they will give for the right, but in no way does it mean that he is right. We heard from you that one of the fundamental changes is the reduction of subsidies that the Republic of Serbia will give. Later, we see that that is not true, because the Fiscal Council itself says that the structure of the subsidy does not decrease. What makes the amount for subsidies smaller is that the subsidies for "Fiat" are reduced. However, other public subsidies are even increased and the Fiscal Council predicts that the government did not foresee in this proposal a whole series of subsidies that it will have to give unless there are planned privatisations, which is something that cannot be predicted. There should be a possibility where the government will be forced to grant these subsidies. Because there are some people in these companies who need something to happen to. If the government does not find partners for these companies, it is clear that it will have to subsidise them, and for which no revenue is foreseen. We can see that, apart from all these pompous announcements and thank-yous in the budget of some real progress, I'm afraid there's nothing. These may be some things that sound good when they're told to someone who may not get too deep, so they may even sound logical to him. However, we can see that none of this in this 2013 budget exists. The budget is extremely central. I'm not just talking about financing the AP Vojvodina, I'm talking about projects that are being implemented from the budget. I don't know which way in this assembly I should ask – is there even one culture institution that is worth funding from the republican budget, which needs recovery, reconstruction of buildings, buildings, etc.? Are sports halls needed outside Belgrade, are sports halls needed outside Belgrade? I was hoping, here's when the great regionalists came to be able to distribute funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that we would have indications that life would begin somewhere outside of Belgrade, cultural, sports, whatever. However, we can see that there is none in the budget. I don't just mean Vojvodina. I mean municipalities all over Serbia. We've given a series of amendments to this budget. Some refer to the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and some do not. I'd start with them first. In fact, we believe that there is still a need to increase the subsidies to agriculture, which will go directly to farmers to improve agricultural production. This is something that is important to us in Vojvodina, although the nominally increased amount for subsidies in agriculture. Those funds don't go to farmers. I'm sorry that I don't see that the budget is secure, we tried to influence the means for pregnant women who are in the maintenance of pregnancy. Since since 2006, when, behold, your minister, Tomica Milosavljevic, has abolished that compensation for pregnant women, it takes our struggle to find this amount in the budget, to find the funds. It's not about the big funds. In some local self-government, we managed to fight for it. In Novi Sad, for example, in the last term, the City's Assembly accepted the LSV's proposal to pay off those funds to pregnant women on maternity leave. Pregnant women in Novi Sad are no longer worth more than pregnant women in other municipalities in Serbia. The choice to pay them the full amount of pay when they are on maternity leave should not depend on the financial situation in which their municipality is located. It is the right that all women in Serbia should have, and that is something that I believe funds can be found in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We made a few suggestions how. There's one topic I'd like to ask you to pay attention to. For several months, LSV MP Olena Papuga has been in daily communication with the Ministry of Education trying to get an answer to the question – what happens to low-level textbooks for primary education? There's no funds for them in the budget again. She has made some suggestions where savings can be made and how these textbooks can be printed. It is not only about textbooks for children who are educated in other languages, i.e. in non-Serb languages, but also about textbooks for children with developmental disorders, it is about textbooks for children in some professional schools. If indeed, there is no means to do so in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and it seems from what we have seen, nor have the ministry been able to answer the question of where these funds are in the budget, then, of course, it will be another one in a number of grounds for the Constitutional Court lawsuit, because the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide its children with the right to study in the native language when it comes to basic education. These children must have, as well as children who are educated in Serbian, under certain conditions legally on free textbooks. Of course, we see where there's room for all these, as one might say, extra spending. Let's just say, for me, the amazing information was a lot of pay in the BIA. When I saw that information, I even referred a letter, or a parliamentary question -- how many people work there exactly, given that if they earn something that would be a republican average, several thousand people would be employed by the BIA. We see a lot of room to find savings in that part of the fiscal council is talking about, and that's what they say is against the legal fees for the members of the MUP. We've got a whole series. For example, for me, the mystery is the subsidized sales of tractors in Republika Srpska. Why would it be a cost that the Republic of Serbia would have for itself? Why aren't tractors sold at subsidized prices in Vojvodina? Given that I still have five minutes, that brings me to that topic that we've talked about a lot in the past few days, which we'll probably talk about in the coming days and certainly when it's about amendments, which is funding the AP Vojvodina, where we come up with your first untrue information. It was either a promise or a public commitment that the government of the Republic of Serbia would consult with the government of the AP Vojvodina in the budget process. That, of course, didn't happen. Instead of the deal, we received insults from the government of the Republic of Serbia at the expense of the government of the AP Vojvodina and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, so we could hear from various government representatives that the government of Vojvodina did not qualify by its behaviour to talk to the Ministry of Finance, that they should return money to teachers in mathematics because they do not know how to add. It is simply not the way to communicate with legitimately elected representatives of the citizens of Vojvodina. It's something that's bad manners. Perhaps there wouldn't be so much trouble if the AP Vojvodina had not been damaged by this draft budget by nine billion dinars. That's what we were talking about. The Vojvodina Assembly has given some amendments. Unless these amendments are adopted, believe me, not only will this draft budget not only come to the support of the LSV, but it will be quickly found before the Constitutional Court, because it violates in an obvious way, not only the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which relate to seven percent of the AP Vojvodina budget, but also the rights of the citizens of Vojvodina, which I believe no one has the right, nor can MPs sitting in this hall be entitled to deny the citizens of Vojvodina nine billion dinars. When you were saying you created a lapus that actually depicts the true state of funding for the Vojvodina in this budget. You said the AP Vojvodina budget is 8.4% of the budget, or tax revenues. It can't stand the word "or," because the word "or" could mean the same thing. Budget isn't the same as tax revenues. I don't know how many times it takes in this room to make that clear. What scares me is the fact that I believe it's more than clear to everyone, but that they simply decide to ignore it, ignore it, and do what they first imagined. You said the Vojvodina budget would be 70.5 billion dinars. It's not just about the amount of money, it's about the structure of that money. I don't know how to explain it to you, and I don't want you to accept the argument. So 23.5 billion of those 70.5 billion are funds that should not be in the AP Vojvodina budget at all. These are the funds used for education staff from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, where the AP Vojvodina has absolutely no jurisdiction over primary and secondary education. The budget of the AP Vojvodina should only belong to funds intended for the incomes of high education employees. The only reason I see that these funds belong to the AP Vojvodina budget, which, by the way, will be kept one day and immediately the next day go to those who are intended, is that the Vojvodina budget appears to be higher, that the figure that will ultimately stand in the bill will be formally the figure that meets that given a minimum of 7%, I am not talking about that there may not be a word that there could possibly be more than 7%, but that in fact all the facades that indicate that Serbia's budget lacks 32 billion for the AP Vojvodina, which is also the government of Vojvodina and the Vojvodina Assembly and LSV MPs have tried to change the amendments. I hope that in the days to come we will have the opportunity to talk about it and put it into argument when it comes to these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5050	The word is by MP Velimir Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5051	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to give a brief review of the 2013 draft budget on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Without some deeper analysis, it can be said immediately that the 2013 budget is not passed, as it would say, one minute to twelve, but is adopted within the legal deadline, or in accordance with the Memorandum of Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Every time I discuss budget projections, whether it's a republican, regional or city budget, it's always at the beginning to discuss what kind of character it is, or whether it's social, whether it's developmental or has components both. I think the government has come quite ambitiously to draft a budget for next year. In terms of all developments in the country, the severe economic crisis and public debt, the budget deficit, inflation, I think it has made a budget that objectively illustrates the situation in finance, in the public sector and in all other segments of society, in order to overcome certain elements of the crisis in this country, but certainly that this budget, as someone just said, given the whole situation, also has elements of a kind of compromise. Of course, we talked a lot about it when the budget rebalance was presented for 2012, when you and Mr. Minister yourself said you weren't happy until the end. But it simply had to be the way it was created at the time, but it had only the goal of only being partial in order to remove the basic problems of functioning for as long as at that time and for a short period of time, in order to bring about the end of this financial year. Only working on the 2013 draft budget gave the government a real chance to show that it is fully committed to all the objectives it has declared in several previous months. What can first be said is that the projection of this budget is planned to almost split the budget deficit to 3.6% of GDP and as one measure of course to stop the crisis, halting public debt growth. The projection of economic growth is not great, but up to 2% I think it's even optimistic, but in order to stop employment from falling primarily and as one of the measures that we have stopped inflation in the other half of next year, i.e. at a certain level. What was of course the most urgent and the primary task of this budget is a radical reduction in the fiscal deficit, however, why all this is necessary. A few months ago, it was speculated that Serbia's public debt had penetrated 45%, and today we have about 60% of GDP. Simply, such an alarming state in the state register requires truly radical measures and not always popular, but therefore it does not need to surprise such a restrictive budget proposal whose primary task is to repair the established and objective state of society, above all, when we think about the country's economy and public finances. In doing so, I have the impression that it has been particularly taken into account, considering the overall economic situation in society, that the burden is evenly deployed and that the principle of social justice is fully respected. As I said, reducing deficits is certainly a good move in fiscal policymaking. There are other opinions, though. The fiscal council considers that it is overly ambitious, that by about 25 billion, it will be bigger than planned, or that it will be around 4.3 GDP and plus because of these accompanying laws that go along with this budget, which are about solving the problem of late payments, which will in some way lead to an increase in expenditure in the government register. There is, however, a fear of the Fiscal Council that it is up to a total of 5%. But I really don't want to deal with this analysis any deeper, given that I really don't feel competent to talk about this to the end, but what I want to draw attention to, and what's my absolute dissension with one of the measures proposed by the Fiscal Council, which is one of the key measures that the Fiscal Council proposes, is to cut transfers to local self-government, and a group of the most developed cities, I see there are about a dozen cities, even temporary, total removal of the transfer funds. I am indeed absolutely against this against the fence that the Ministry of Finance, the government of the Republic of Serbia should introduce discipline and savings at all levels. But, as local self-governments, i.e. municipalities and cities have received additional funding by a new law since 2011, this law has the intensities that these additional funds, additional transfers in local self-government budgets are used primarily for capital investments, for investments financed by the Republic's budget until then. We've come into a situation that truly certain local self-governments have not acted in this way and that these funds have gone further into some kind of public spending, to say for profits, new employment in city administrations. But I generally think that this is a kind of decentralisation, means giving more resources to the management of municipalities and cities and, in that sense, another suggestion that there is only a need to tighten control and discipline in the functioning of the budget and units of local self-government, but also at all other levels. In that sense, I think that the Government has well noticed that in light of the law adopted in March, which has made regional roads, i.e. the roads of the first and second order to the units of the local self-government, that we have come to the situation that before the winter season there are simply those municipalities, above all underdeveloped, small municipalities that can't end up doing this, that they can't be maintained either during the winter or throughout the year. Indeed there are those units of local self-government that have a small number of inhabitants, small budgets, and a large travel network, let's say a typical example is the municipality of Ivanica. So, in this sense, I welcome the government's decision to make the draft budget, to provide funds for the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government to maintain the first and second-row roads. However, in order to achieve this, in my view, the government's ambitious projected objective, and regarding next year's budget, must indeed be led by responsible fiscal policy and insisted on saving at all levels, of all budgetary users, without distinction. But above all, it is essential to re-promise the principle of financial discipline, which unfortunately is often forgotten in this country. In this regard, the proposed solutions that the beneficiaries of the budget are obliged to settle within the time limit set by the law, and that the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, can implement through the suspension of transfer and other funds, on other appraisals, I really believe that it can lead to order in public finances at all levels of government. The next objective declared by the government's economic and fiscal policy for 2013 and aims to achieve in addition to the introduction of financial discipline, the reduction of the fiscal deficit, the slowdown of public debt growth is certainly to accelerate economic growth and slow down employment. The achievement of these objectives is inextricably linked to an increase in indirect foreign investment, but also to the investment of our domestic entrepreneurs, along with this continuing fight of this government in the fight against corruption at all levels. However, no matter how severe the crisis budgets have been, the difficult situation in the country's economy, there is certainly no other possibility that besides this social component of the budget, there is a halt in inflation and a decline in unemployment without capital expenditure. First of all, I think through incentives for the economy, for a special reference to agriculture and infrastructure investment. Of course, when we talk about attracting foreign investment, we are all aware that at all times no municipality, no city is in an equal position, that those who have more developed not only the road, but even traffic infrastructure are in a far more favourable position than some who are not. That's why I think one of the priority requirements, the state's interest, is the completion of Corridor 10, the intensification of the work on Corridor 11. What made me particularly happy, and I saw that in the development of the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, projects were launched to build highways as links between cities with corridors 10 and 11, and above all I mean the end of the highway from Batocina to Kragujevac, but also by starting a project to build a traffic station, i.e. the highway Pojate-Preljina. All these are investments that will raise such a fallen construction industry, which will be some initial needle to encourage the construction industry as a very important segment of the country's overall economic development. There have been good proposals, a good initiative, such as a proposal to support Serbia's construction industry in the previous period. However, precisely because of the debt of the state budget, whether local or regional budgets, that we have led some liquid firms into a phase to become inequitable, precisely because of this late payment delay, and yet once again I insist on introducing a strong financial discipline in public finances. I'm not going to say what examples it is, whether it's a travel economy, whether it's construction, reconstruction of football stadiums in Serbia, but generally I think we have to behave responsibly, at least according to this little road and construction companies that remain liquid in this country. It is good to introduce subsidies, to keep subsidies, but the fiscal council has criticised that the subsidies are large, but I would remind them that they are seven billion less than last year, and precisely for those seven billion is increased social protection isolation. Of these stimulating measures, I would single out the subsidisation of the liquidity credit of the economy and of the investment in secret assets, where the government should indeed insist within the next two years, as announced, that the restructuring of public enterprises be completed and that it ends with privatisation, i.e. unprivatised enterprises. I would also like to welcome the subsidisation of housing loans for new construction, as well as other measures to support the construction industry through the funds for building apartments for social housing, building planning documentation, building infrastructure for local self-government units for building buildings, therefore, municipal infrastructures, etc. What I want to say at the very end is that both by profession and I think that the country's top priority is the country's development chance, and not only the pre-election campaign, but also the increase in subsidies for agriculture in general, and it is six billion this year and is about 4.5%. I am pleased, Minister Dinkic also said today, and the agriculture minister announced that the goal of the next year's budget for agriculture was at least 5%, but let me tell you, in 2004, in the Republic of Serbia's budget it was just as much. We'll go back to what we had 10 years ago. We had a completely inaccessible situation in a previous period that the agrarian budget would be slightly greater than 2%, and this is particularly good, when agricultural subsidies are at stake, which now, after a few years, reintroduce some of the grants for investments, above all in agricultural infrastructure, where up to 40% of these funds will be grants. Speaking of the Ministry of Agriculture, I've been paying attention to the division, part of the water budget fund. Let's very quickly forget the natural disasters that hit us in the previous period, whether they're floods, droughts, and this other one no longer mentions. In addition, the drought over the past year has caused huge damage to agricultural production, above all, in the country of Serbia with many river streams, many of them from the first A category, the country of Serbia that is rich in groundwater, geothermal waters, we had that the whole parts of the country have a water supply problem. In this sense, it is very important that in this budget there is a place to build a dam with accumulations, above all for these two, Valjevo Rowni, and Prvonek in Vranje but is primarily what delights me because I come from the region of western Serbia, it is building a multi-purpose accumulation for water supply on the Rza River profile in the municipality of Arilla. It envisions 413 million dinars, where more than 300,000 people are currently being supplied, and it can potentially be a solution to a good part of Serbia. At the very end, if I could analyse what this new budget looks like in one or two sentences, I think this draft government has shown its willingness to place all available resources in the function of those entities, particularly business entities, which can repair the country's current economic position, which should reduce unemployment, deficits, and I think these are capital expenditures, investment in the economy and infrastructure. Hoping that the next year this Parliament will be discussed in the 2014 budget in a better economic situation for this country, with the hope that the Serbian government will implement the declared views and opinions during the next financial year, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I would like to say that it will support the draft budget bill for the coming year, as well as all the accompanying laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5052	The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5053	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Dinkic, I have listened carefully to the final presentation and I can get a few things out. I think that's what all the MPs were talking about. The deficit will be halved, 3.6 and the rate of growth projected next year is 2%, we will cut expenditure, raise interest expenditure, and you have said one sentence, we will arrange public finances, stabilise them, be order, be order and discipline, and I guess you forgot that -- there will be work. The key thing you said compared to the other budgets from the previous years, that this is a radical turn. In my opinion, it's a big word, I look at you, I see Mr. Djelic, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic is not here right now, Mrs. Dragutinović is missing. Without malpractice, you're members of an economic school, you operate on a common principle, and I'd say there are nuances among you. It sounds radical and I don't think this year's budget concept would be appropriate. Is the Republic's budget expressed in this way opening up that constant dilemma of whether it's developmental or social? Of course, this dilemma in Serbia does not exist and the greatest optimist, I do not believe it can be remembered that we have developed something special, and an even greater optimist should appear and say that we have done something so radically and changed something in the sphere of social policy. If we consider the development of about six billion or a quarter of the larger budget planned for agriculture, or the 4.1 billion that we anticipate for investment capital somewhat, and if we talk about the social component of the budget and say that we have allocated eight billion more than the previous budget, then this cannot be considered a social budget. A little later, I will say that for the settlement of some basic things by a rough calculation, at this point, these are the two pension wars next year for that thirteenth pension, the maternity leave, that's about seven billion, the minimum funding would be 15 billion, and Dr Jovan Krkobic recently said it should be 20 and 30 billion. The media welcomed it and said, says Krkobic is asking for 30 billion. Of course I'm not looking for them for me, looking for them for a well-founded social policy, because the citizens of this country deserve one such policy. Of course, the whole budget when you look at that basic liquid, that's the concept of savings. All right, someone's for saving, someone's for spending, and the concept of saving that the liberals have advocated has fallen. That concept doesn't work. You know when to save, gentlemen. He's saving himself in economics, Canes says, we should trust him. When there's a crisis, then there's a need for consumption, there's a need for momentum to start the economy. Of course, the concept of savings leads us to an increase in the number of people fired. Maxima in Serbia, who says -- that we have extra people, doesn't stand. We at PUPS were very clear and we stand in that position. There are no gentlemen, my dear friends, the extra men, there are shortages of work. The job needs to be found, the job needs to be started, the business activity of this country needs to be run, that's right. Of course, we'll start it if we don't give it to someone we want. We'll talk about it to someone else on the agenda, then we'll talk about how they were bossed and managed by depolitised and departisan personnel. Let's get back to this topic. The aim of the PUPS is to build a social state and of course we will not give up. I'm gonna do the next presentation right now. Thirteenth Retirement, not to be too delusional about it, it's not a pension, it's a special kind of social giving, for those who don't know it. When Dragan Gilas and I discussed this in Belgrade over the past four years and started, we knew what we were getting into. The name is symbolic, remembers these people who are retired to so-called Thirteenth salary. Therefore, it neither increases, nor reduces pensions, it is a kind of special social giving, which aims to bring one, a truly endangered social group into as much an equal position as possible. Of course, the question for you, Mr. Minister, I've seen that it's supposed to be four billion and something, so I guess it's for these two wars next year, so I'm curious about what's going on with the other two wars? The key, the backbone of a coalition deal involving the PUPS as part of this ruling majority, was that all citizens of Serbia who have a pension of less than 15,000 are given the special social aid of 16,000 annually in four equal wars. Currently in Serbia, 508,000 people are using this right, so we made it possible for them. We gave them, because we never tried to say that we gave someone something, we made it possible for them to get what they belonged to, and get to them. Of course, these, to say symbolic, 80m euros will significantly improve these people's position, increase demand and be extremely banal, these people deserve to be able to buy at least one chocolate with their grandchildren. There are people here that don't mean much, one chocolate, what is one chocolate if I own a chocolate factory? But, I repeat, half a million citizens of Serbia are waiting for this response, they know that PUPS insists on it and are waiting for you, Mr. Minister, to see if they will receive these 4,000 dinars in September and December next year. The next thing I'd say is the key value attitude of PUPS, which is that pensions follow wages. Today, pensions in Serbia are relatively small, but there are. We are not in Greece's position, we are not in the position of Spain, Portugal, our value view of pensions following wages, so people share the fate of those who are employed in the public sector. For those who deal with the economy, they know that this is also a corrective factor in making money in the public sector, they must not go uncontrollably, because they will also withdraw pension growth. As far as pensioners are concerned, 1,700,000 of them, this parliamentary group exists here to protect their key, existential rights. So they're safe and they're regular. I'd look back on one important third segment. It's a segment of the start-up of economic activity, but a segment related to the most endangered population. We're about to start presenting social entrepreneurship laws here in this home. It is a law that will allow the largest number of people from marginalised social groups to reach their own employment. Serbian citizens in large numbers are looking forward to this concrete, final shift. I'm a little worried, for a simple reason, because I don't see the funds allocated for that purpose. We can look at the budget one way or another, but if we don't have the resources set aside for that purpose, there's hardly anything we can do next year. I expect that in some future consideration of possible rebalancing, we will precisely define the funds that would allow up to 1% of the working population in the Republic of Serbia to find employment. This basically means that a person with disabilities, a fugitive and a displaced person, a male or female person who has passed 50 years of age, and has lost his job, and is market-free, can expect employment, either by starting his own business or within the relevant social enterprises. The full law has been made, and I expect the support of almost all the parliamentary groups in this house. There is already an agreement with the DS on the implementation of the project, there is an agreement with Mr Ljajic's party, and I also spoke with Mr Nenada Popovic. I expect us to check in this room, not who's going to be "yes" but who's going to be "against." (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: It is known who will be against it. Is it known? Of course the citizens of Serbia know who's not on their side, but it's a marginal thing now. In the end of my presentation, I'll devote myself to one subject. Let's go with the amendment, very important. Someone here was already saying something, the amendment is crucial, it's separations for women who go on maternity leave. Check this out, the legislator punished women in Serbia by subtracting 35% of the profits. Our amendment goes in the direction that they get a full profit. We've defined the amount of funds, I hear different bids here, but I'll tell you in practice. In Belgrade, in the previous four years, we had such a policy, which, as a result, had exactly what we're talking about. There was a figure moving between 7m and 8m euros. We can never determine the exact number of these women, how many months they're going to be on pregnancy maintenance or not, a simple account of three to four times should be allocated more funds. We have rounded it up to some three billion, and we believe that then all women who go to Serbia for pregnancy, such as Belgrade and some local self-government, will be in a position to receive full income. We contribute to the Nataliety and remove all the elements of the inequality that exist in this case. Of course, I can't here, when I talk about social policy, not to single out the Belgrade model of social policy, which represents something that we are in the campaign, because this is no longer a campaign, we have often pointed out -- Belgrade today, Serbia tomorrow. Serbia is already today and this social policy model should be accepted and something to base long-term social policy on. At the same time, when I talk about this Belgrade model, we should not forget that model of development policy. Of course, those who participated in the work of the city government know the citizens of Belgrade, who verified it in the elections, but look at the wonders, some citizens of Belgrade in large numbers, did not trust some people who sat in the previous city government. Belgrade's outstanding political market said that their political product was not good, so they went so far as to sell even politically, and these are the re-elections, it never defines the policy, but that's why in Vrsko Chuka, Babina Zub, the Old Mountain it will certainly pass. I suggest they continue... (President: I apologize, Mr. Krkobabic, you must talk about a subject that is on the agenda. ) Mr. President, I appreciate your objection, but I would like to ask you, when I present, to enable the elemental order and to warn the MPs who receive from the side. It's interaction. Therefore, if there were no such reaction, there would be no such reaction. The PUPS position is clear. With insults, with slanders, the coasters are over. The principle that we will always turn your other cheek to that must be forgotten. You have to turn to yourself and think about it. I am finishing this debate, expecting Mr Dinkic to answer these two key questions, and they refer to the payment of the so-called "Dinkic". Thirteen pensions and a potential allocation of funds that would allow social entrepreneurship to be launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5054	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5055	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has threatened this debate to come to us all in the O.R., and that's not good. Do you agree with that, you laughed? I don't think we should be dark, but if there's no life in the budget debate, then the situation is truly catastrophic. Mr. Dinkic, when do they start reforming one country? A fellow MP spoke before me, and during that performance, we could come up with an argument as to why it is impossible to discuss serious reforms in Serbia through a budget debate. There's no potential in the ruling majority for something like that. It wasn't even in the last one. I ask you, when do reforms begin in one country? That's the essential question. Of course we can take your budget, so go for the next 20 minutes and prove its inconsistency. We are ready to deceive ourselves on many major issues. We've done it in the past, we're doing it today, and you want us to keep doing it in the future. It can work on Brnjak and Jarinj. There can be a line there for us, which is for another border, for us can be a witness, and for some customs officer, but in the economy it's impossible. The economy is ruthless. The blood count of an economy is the blood count of a society. I have to tell you what I said and during the budget rebalancing debate, it's not just a matter to deal with. The issue of economic policy is a fundamental issue, and we should all answer it together. There's not even one government ready to respond. That's why it's not a budget, it's a menu, a political menu of parties that don't think about the fact that it's impossible to run a policy that's being run today and being run in the past. Of course, anything can be said in the Serbian Parliament. We can talk about how liberal politics failed, but, Mr. Dinkic, when you owe yourself $750 million, broadcasting state papers, you know very well that pension funds come from that failed liberal economy, so they give money here. Is that right? The moment the Pension Fund leaves and buys bonds from the Federal Reserve of America, we'll be able to say that our economy is dynamic, quality and perspective, and it's failed there. But since we are MPs of the Serbian Parliament, we are obliged to take care of the interests of Serbian citizens. I don't care what's going on outside this country, unless in the processes that are happening outside Serbia, we can't find an answer to some of our internal problems and unless these processes affect the situation in our economy, and of course they do. "Fiscal Cliff" is a problem for every country on the planet, regardless of whether people who can understand it or cannot understand it are sitting in the parliament of that country. Let's start from the beginning. I ask you, when do reforms begin in one country, because we have the right to reform before everything around us collapses? The previous government, the one you're talking about with so much criticism, had no ability to answer the question I'm asking you right now. They doubled public debt. Is that right? When they ask the esteemed pensioner's leader how he feels after 100 days, he says – you can think of the first day that I came and saw our finances collapsed. Of course they were shot when they broke half a billion euros in 2008, because it was the price of a ruling coalition. Djelic, did you pay for it? I'm talking to you, since you were a minister in that government. You were in that ruling coalition and everyone else. I'm telling you that you are looking for support where only support can be found, which is in that part of our society that is ready to say that Serbia can no longer live by the model it has lived by in the past and still survives today. We're spending more than we're making, and life isn't "the perpetum of a mobile." End of story. We fill the holes by borrowing. We don't have room to calculate anymore, we've come to the end. Next year, we're going to have to go back five billion by probably putting ourselves back in charge again. The fact that borrowing today is something easier because of the changed financial conditions in the world doesn't have to relax us, because it's still science fiction that we believe that we're going to have a growth of social product equal to the rate at which we're in debt, although it's more favourable than it was before. That's all the markets in the world have narrowed down, and the pension funds of America, Mr. Krkobic, have to invest money somewhere, so they invest in Serbia, because it's safer for them to owe them to be a state than any other company. That's the state of the economy today. Then let's start from the beginning. Mr. Dinkic, if we want to have a healthy economy, we need to change the policy that destroyed our economy. The state of the economy is the price of politics that has been conducted in Serbia for years. All the elements and preconditions of the reforms are so compromised, it's practically impossible to expect the goals you set, we sign them all, we accept them all, but really don't. The only way to turn our heads is to start looking at the world in front of us. It is impossible to achieve these goals without re-affirming privatisation, without partnerships with trade unions, but not partnerships based on rules based on it to date, without agreement within society, social solidarity. Why 13th Retirement? Because Gilas has to pay for a political racket? (Milan Krkobic, from the place: They pay you. Let me tell you something, that's the end of it. That's why it won't happen. That's why it can't be, not because someone doesn't want to, but can't. Retirement is not charity, it is a right acquired, which cannot be achieved because of the fact that an abnormal policy has been conducted for 20 years. The 13 pensions should have been considered when the Pension Fund was shot, when his property was damaged, when his management was destroyed. Over. That's not Dinkic's problem, that's our problem. The country where the youngest generations are the most conservative is a country without a future. The country with these characteristics – a million and 700 thousand people are formally employed, 700 000 are on the budget through public enterprises or state administration, 400,000 in entrepreneurs and another 700 000 in private companies, compared to that by a million and 700 thousand in pensioners, 800 thousand in formally unemployed and even so realistically unemployed. Then what are we hoping for? It's a political deal. We need to sober up Serbia, wake her from a coma held by irresponsible politicians. Poulism and demagogy, they're temporary anaesthesia. Why did "Fiat" succeed in Kragujevac? Why couldn't that in IMT? "Fiat" in Kragujevac succeeded because we made the flag of the Group. Is that right? It began in 2001 with the link of the Ministers of the Republic Government in the factory circle. Do you remember that, Djelic and Vlahovic, versus a bunch of workers who thought that hunting them would solve their problems? Well, we didn't give in. We didn't give in, and that's why "Fiat" in Kragujevac works today. Where compromises were made, there are 100,000 people on that side. Here, their unions are here with us, they were with us in the parliamentary group. They're looking for support for the idea of pro-longing this company's status in restructuring with us, and they haven't found it, and we're the opposition. We said he can't. No, it can't. We have to make a deal. Restructure, it's a refusal to face reality. What do we do in a year with these companies? There's no money to be able to function like they've done before, and what's been given wasn't enough for a normal life. Investors are needed, investment climate is needed, entrepreneurs are needed, businessmen are needed. If we know what's on this side of our needs, let's see how that suits everyone. Effective laws, where's the new Labour Act? Where's the new Labour Act? Without the new Labour Act, there is no dynamic economy. You count on the social product to grow next year because of the increase in investment. What are the guarantees and where are the guarantees for something like that? What kind of investment? State? No state project has been able to realise. These are the villages of Podkin. Only those projects that have a purely political character are realized and it all comes down to political corruption in the pre-election campaign – we're going to give you a 13th pension and you're going to vote for me, but we're not going to reform the pension fund, but we're going to hide it under the table here. The fact is that everything we asked for to be done five years ago, when it made sense – to freeze wages and pensions because the projected growth of 2% is actually with an inflation of 9%, and certainly more, unfortunately, I'm not looking forward to it, which is freezing and reducing wages and pensions. Say it, don't lie. You're for the citizens, and we're against the citizens. How many taxes did you pay when you lecture someone? So whoever pays the tax is the one who has the right to question the functioning of the state. It's a private sector. You're at war with the private sector as the director of the Post Office? If you were in that company, you wouldn't be sitting here, you'd be in your place of work, and you're Mr. Director in the MP's bench. That's normal. Mr. Dinkich, let's get back to your budget. It's nice of you to project 3.6% of the deficit. We support that. It's an absolutely reasonable goal, but how are we going to achieve it? How are we going to make it happen with everything we've got in front of us? No one has given up their rights. We say - 3.6%, we mean 5%. And that's better than 6.5%. But what is the assumption that the plans will come true, because Mirko Cvetkovic didn't show up a year ago and said he was going to throw public finances at us in the first six months? That's what we said, and we criticised the budget the same way we're doing it now with you. We didn't avoid bankruptcy. We didn't. We went through it. You know that bankruptcy is the result of the unsustainable model our country operates on. Again, we spend more than we create. End of story. We're in debt and that's how we patch the hole. We're in charge of two billion, and that's why we haven't solved the problem of our public finances. We've made our way through, we've put off the crisis. It's better that it's happened than if everything went down. But if we've already come to a break, let's make some moves that we need to make now. Let's do it right now. Companies in restructuring, they have to get rid of each other. You know for a fact that the Agency has no potential for something like that, that people are scared, that we destroyed the Privatisation Agency because of pulsism and demagogy. First, the need for DS to come up with the necessary political support in the elections by fighting corruption and exorcising witches, and then it continued. After that, it continued. That's how it goes. How long? The privatisation agency has to get support from the state. The restructuring agency also. What is the value of the company's assets in restructuring? Zero. If they were worth it, we would. I'm sorry, that time has passed. You're looking for those who can start it as soon as possible. In order for us to have the right to something like that, we have to make a deal, because not everyone's gonna be like us. Someone will say, "You know what, if we were in power, there would be money for you even though your company is not working." As the president of our government says - they cannot pay to be African and prices to the world. You know, it can do that at a political conference where he speaks, and in reality, wages are not even African. The highest rate of inflation, the fastest growth in public debt, the highest unemployment rate, are Serbia's references today. A debt that, let's say, is about 60%, it's true that there are countries with greater public debt. That is the answer, Mr Dinkic, to the demands of your National Council for Economic Recovery, which would raise the public debt rate from 45% to 60%, to formalize it at this level at which it is now. But Hamilton at the start of Formula One, he's got a lot of skeletons and he's 200. Mr. Krkobic would be in trouble with 50 and so would Serbia. We can't compare ourselves to those who can live with a public debt of 60%, we have to lower it, make our economy strong, depolitize it. Do you have and can you say five capable people in Serbia who are not branded as criminals? I can't. You tell me that. What kind of country are we? Who's gonna do that? Who's going to go into any public enterprise and do business by the model you're defending? You say there is no financial support for public enterprises that are losers. Wait, I strongly criticised the idea of Bajatovic being the director of "Serbia" and our entire parliamentary group, that Radojko should be the director of Telecom, that Mr. Krkobic should be the director of "Post", but these are all enterprises that are doomed to politics, practically, donations to our society. How can "Serbigas" function positively if it has to sell gas 30% cheaper than it buys? How can she do that? Are we going to pass next week a law that will oblige the state to pay within 45 days – excellent, and public enterprises? How will Belgrade's heat pay for "Serbiagas" in 45 days' gas? What are we gonna do about it? How are we gonna do that? How will a halted economy bring about the necessary dynamics? We need that shock, positive. That's what we missed out on. It's been a while. Come on, if we're on front line, we're on front line. If we have to operate without anesthesia, let us operate without anesthesia, to help and protect those who need help. We were never about to leave the pensioners without support and no understanding of society. That's not true. We're only against the hypocritical politics that sacrifice these pensioners and their futures. What do our public finances look like? As finance minister, can you answer the question – what happens, say, with the MIP budget? What kind of social aid pays off to the M.O.P.? That law-playing thing, we're about a cop to pay fairly, we're not about them standing on the street, guarding us and our families, and being sacrificed as social cases. Let's just say that cop pay is a clear category. What's going on with the Department of Defense? Is there anything you can tell us as a minister about this, with the projects that are being launched, with the factories that are being announced? What about public works? With Mrkonjic? With Ilic? The state sector is going to invest 8%, so it's in the analysis of this one of yours. In what way? What people? Who else is going to take part in this? Very bad. How can a normal person say that the wrong target is a 3.5% deficit? How can a normal person, if I agree with that goal, accept this untruth that has gained legitimacy in every sphere of our public life? In each. So, we can't cut expenditures because we don't give coalition partners, the only instrument of economic policy is inflation, and that's the only thing that we're going to, as much as controlling expenditure, because there's no income. We will say that next year we will have a larger VAT inflow on goods from imports of 300m euros. How do we know that? What is this assumption based on? A serious problem is the structure of that budget. We're either retired or getting paid. At least in that budget we have room for those moves that are a prerequisite for healing our economy. It is a 800m-euro subsidy policy. I don't mind if the state intervenes in the economy in the way it intervenes in every reasonable society, but what happened in the past four or eight years has never been analyzed, no one was responsible for that. Kolesar will be responsible for implementing the 2001 government's decisions. The boat's in a cell for two or three months until it's forgotten about him. Who's going to be responsible for the fact that in the meantime, incomparably more money went missing after the Iron Man went down and someone decided to take it for a dollar? What's going to happen to "Sartida" in 2013? He's not in the budget, and 10 million goes a month. Will he be privatized by then? Are we doing something to privatize him? Five million tonnes is excess steel on the European market. If this Russian partner is coming, what country is he coming to? Will she run the internal market of the construction industry? No, there's no law on planning and construction that would, for example, eliminate these abnormal anomalies in our economic life. Belgrade needs 150,000 apartments, and all construction firms in Belgrade have failed. How is that possible? Agrar is our perspective, but the agrarian industrial complex is destroyed. How can we start it? By opening up new markets, by bringing investors and esteeming the domestic ones we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5056	Mr Jovanovic, do you want to continue to use the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5057	Not at all. We have MPs who would certainly like to say something else. The shortest, Mr Dinkic, is a prerequisite for supporting the budget as a clear concept of reform whose one element is certainly public finance. Without that, we don't participate, no matter how much we agree with some goals, in a policy that's predicated to failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5058	Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5059	I really don't know what country you live in, if you've slept through everything we've done in the last three months. You're talking about reforms, and what is reform than going to this assembly with a budget that has twice as much deficit as it is this year? What if it wasn't a reform when we abolished the possibility of giving liquidity guarantees to public companies to resuscitate losses? Isn't that reform? What if it wasn't a reform to change upside down, I'd say, as you said, a system of financing health care with laws that came to this session before you? If we had a system where drug manufacturers could produce, the state would pay for it without them getting that money and nothing being to anyone, or a system waiting 200 days to collect the goods sold to hospitals. We are now changing this through a set of health care laws and introducing centralised public procurement so that the taxpayers' money of Serbia will not be drawn up in corruption of various hospitals throughout Serbia, health homes and pharmaceuticals together that participate, I mean large-scale drugs. If we're doing all this and we've provided resources to clean up a bunch of those delays that make up a parafiscal deficit, and we haven't had them three months ago. Three months ago, we didn't have to finance regular pensions, we didn't have regular salaries in health care and education, so we patched up the end, and now we came into a situation where the budget you criticized in 2012 turned out to be more optimistic than I announced. I was a pessimist. I'm always criticised for being too optimistic, and I've turned out to be pessimistic when it comes to rebalancing. Why? Because tax revenues go faster than what we have burned, and because expenditures are reduced faster than we expected. That way, 20 billion dinars only in this year will we have less. You say we spend more than we realize. That's right. Who doesn't spend more today in the world than they do? Come on, tell me. Only countries that have oil, countries that have some natural resources and have more on that basis. All other countries in the world, from America via Japan to all EU countries, literally all, spend more than they create so that in some way they can hold social balance as much as possible. A budget deficit is a notion that means someone spends more than they create. See the list of EU countries with budget deficits and which do not have one. A much longer list of those who have a budget deficit, which means – how do they finance it? They're in charge. The only question is whether you're in charge of financing a huge and unsustainable budget deficit or you're in debt under better conditions to finance the deficits you're taking down, which we're doing right now at this stage. It is not the same if Serbia needs money to finance 200 billion dinars of budget deficit or 120. I wish it was a zero budget deficit, but it's impossible to do in a year. There is no country that can make fiscal adjustment greater than 3% of GDP in one year. Neither can we, but we can at least 2.5 as much as we predicted. When someone tells me that we've been planning an ambitious budget deficit, 3.6% is not a small deficit at all, to be honest and honest. It's not a small deficit 3.6%, and our goal must be to bring it down further in the coming years, and that is our goal. What you also missed to hear may be that you may not have closely followed the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which is your right, but the fact is that we have drawn up a draft plan for medium-term structural reforms. A good part of that plan was installed and a good part of that plan we made together with the Fiscal Council. It's not exactly a finding we've heard here from one of the MPs not to consult with the Fiscal Council. On the contrary, this was the goal for this year they proposed two months ago, and we accepted it. They also suggested a whole series of measures we took and added new ones to it. One thing where we disagreed, but it seems to me that after the debate on the assembly board, they too asked us to lift transfers to cities linearly all of us, believing that they had too much money, the cities of Serbia, to leave only to local municipalities, and we felt that this was the wrong conclusion and we sought a debate with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. Instead, we suggest that we create a system model where we don't put all cities and municipalities in the same basket, rather than define what is fiscally responsible behavior of cities and municipalities, and then those cities that are irresponsible that we selectively reduce the transfer in the future based on clear rules and forums, which means that if the excessive administration is defined as bad, which is, that is, to be the basis for smaller transfers. You want more clerks? The Republic won't pay you. Another thing, if someone wants to oversubsidize their local businesses – you want to subsidize, don't ask for the Republic's steam, you have a property tax and you can do it freely. It's the system we've proposed and the fiscal council is on its way to accepting it. We don't want to cut it linearly and remove Nisa, Valjev, Loznica, Šapcu, Novi Sad transfers, because it would be wrong and it's not the same everywhere, it's actually a completely different situation everywhere and it depends on the city to the city. You need to make a model in that sense. The other thing is, you mentioned the police. I think this bonus policy introduced by the previous government is unsustainable for the police. These bonuses need to be converted into regular earnings, but they can't be done by now eliminating these 10,000 dinar receipts per month, but when the next pay indexation is to include one part of it in the profit and so within a certain time limit, it is now a non-transparent way of showing profit into a regular one. That's what we suggested to the IMF mission and the Fiscal Council, and I think that's the only solution that's right. So, not to end the cops this but to slowly engage in regular earnings, to be in the same system as everyone else. We have no other disagreements with the Fiscal Council and the IMF on the loose end. On the revenue side, we've fully agreed to the projections. A month ago, we overestimated non-tax revenues, but we underestimated taxes. That's why we made the correction. We increased the amendment you received a few days ago from tax revenues, because they are better achieved now, in October, November, will be better in December and will be even better because of the legislation on the conditional write-off of tight interest on past tax debts, i.e. conditional tax amnesty. People who pay current taxes a month in a month will be able to write off their debt from the past. This will increase the collection of current revenues. Tax revenues will be realised in the amount we have foreseen. In addition, a few days ago, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, respected Professor Pavle Petrovic accepted and said. What's important is that we accept all the well-intentioned criticisms of whoever they come from, from our coalition colleagues, that's understood, and we need even more good proposals from the opposition, because that's the only way the government can be dynamic. But it's only fair to suggest something we didn't suggest, not repeat what we've already accepted. We're going into a sustainable reform of the pension system. Let's forget about the retirement fund fairy tale as an investment fund. That fairy tale fell apart in this financial crisis. Pension funds should not be capitalised and become investment funds, because it is risky for pensioners. The British police's pension fund failed. Many U.S. pension funds have failed because they have invested in banks that have failed. So that system is risky. If you ask me today in 2012 – should Serbia go into such a reform of the pension system. That's what this MP group set up in the beginning. You don't have to. It was a model from the beginning of 2000. He turned out to be wrong. Let's not talk about him anymore. The system of payments from the current contributions of previous pensioners is the system that exists and which is the only solid basis for a stable pension payment. What's only changing? Retirement parameters where in Serbia it is not normal to stimulate early retirement. This should be done further, to destabilize early retirement by financial measures, and to stimulate later retirement, so whoever wants to go ahead. Early retirement – destimulation. Later retirement – stimulation. That's it. It's enough to have a stable pension system in the coming years. We're against moving the retirement age of women. We think this is well measured now and there's no need, because we can finance that system. There's no need. It should remain the same age limit for the retirement of women, as it is now. We can do something to destimulate early retirement, and stimulate later retirement. As far as the restructuring companies are concerned, there is a law before you to limit that period. It's impossible to stop it right now. We want to give the World Bank a chance for a year and a half, and that's what the World Bank agreed to do for companies to find strategic partners. He can find the flag of arms to find a strategic partner. He can find the first five-year-old. For some, it'll be easier, and for some, it'll be harder. Some may not succeed, but a year and a half is a reasonable time for our government and for the management of these companies to go into finding strategic partners and see who stays on the market and who doesn't. We also predicted this through our medium-term structural reform programme and what we adopted. As far as the Ironworks are concerned, it's not an easy problem. You yourself said the extra capacity to produce steel is due to the current low price. However, in a conversation with a Russian Federation partner, we are going towards a solution. This company called in a tender. We can talk about this in public. It's the UralVagon Institute. It's a big company from Russia. He's got a six-billion-dollar twist. They come regularly, preparing their offer. Their director comes to Serbia next week along with Rogozin, deputy prime minister of the Russian Federation. So, their director is talking to us, and by the end of December, it's time to make an offer. Then you'll find out what kind of solution was found. However, it is very good that we have a strong partner who wants to take over Smederjevo Iron and employ capacities. The growth projection of 2%, to clear that up, is not ambitious. That's a very modest assessment. It rests on the fact that this year a fall was made, primarily due to the movement in the first three quarters, of as much as 2% more than the previous government had designed. The previous government has projected 0.5 growth and a 2% decline will be. The start base is low. I don't think it's an ambitious goal, but it's extremely modest and pessimistic. It's only gonna happen because, I guess, next year, we're not gonna have this catastrophic agricultural production, and we've also provided a bigger budget for agriculture and Fiat. Only these two factors bring us to 2%. If the iron works, and we're going to work on it, if at least the conditions in the euro zone improve a little bit, the growth will be higher. Growth of 2% is not an ambitious growth. The NBS is forecasting 2.5%, precisely because of this low starting base. The projection was agreed by the Fiscal Council and the IMF. It's not supposed to make a big story out of it. Two percent are mathematically high compared to what the EU countries will have, but they did not have a fall this year, and Serbia did. I agree with all those who criticize something we haven't done or we have no intention of doing. However, the fact is that we intend to slowly take off subsidies from all public enterprises, except for "Serb Railway", which are subsidized everywhere in the world. None, according to our plan, should remain in the 2014 budget. I'm talking about public enterprises. Plus to get rid of all the enterprises in restructuring at the latest in 2014. So, since 2015, they haven't been on the budget. It's a vision that has a real foundation. It's a couple of excellency reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5060	Thank you. The word is Mr. Krkobic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5061	Mr. Jovanovic used a little stronger words. He said "recet", and to bring down the term "recet", in his sense of meaning, in mine it is about Djokovic, of course, the social policy of the city of Belgrade is inappropriate. Unreasonably, these people who are covered by this social policy and who know that this policy has just allowed them to feel like decent people in these previous four years. Of course, those people in Belgrade expect some funding from the budget. I would ask you, if you don't mind, to settle your debts as a party in the business space of the city of Belgrade. I'll give you the bill. It is your small contribution to making the city of Belgrade's budget more generous. I'm not going to be saying how much resources are now, but they're enough to do, let's say, one physical hall in Pinosava, these people are looking at us, or we're opening a new home for children with developmental disorders. I appeal to your high sense of responsibility, to settle it as soon as possible. As far as I'm concerned, my time is running out, because I have to go to work, my first job in 30 days was to return one job to PTT worth two million euros. I'll be correct, I won't tell you how he left. That's not my manners. PTT got two million euros. The business of Infostana returns to the post office. At the same time, I am informing all those who live in the illusion that they will continue to work with this system in the way they thought. Where Krkobic comes from, there is no growing grass for others. So, let them forget, the balance of this company is such that we will talk about it publicly, transparently and be a significant addition to the Republic budget. I repeat again...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5062	Please, two minutes and 20 seconds. (Milan Krkobic, from the place: Let me finish. I can't let you. Report on some other basis. It's been two minutes. I'm sorry, I can't let you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5063	Of course, Mr. Dinkich, let's very closely monitor your government's work. We can't avoid the fact that your government is contradictory of what it does, confusing. If you are talking about tax revenues that are above expectations, they are not above expectations because more money is spent in Serbia, rather than a three-month payment is made in October. Therefore, tax revenues are now higher, plus inflation, which is unfortunately above what is planned. Of course it would be great if the tax revenues were higher. Because there is more money in Serbia, more goods are being spent, purchases etc. That's not true. It's not just your problem, it's a simple business climate, economic climate. That's the state of society. It is full of laws that we have passed in previous years, labour law, laws reforming the pension area, not by declaring the pension fund a investment fund, but by asking for order to be introduced into the chaos that occurred in the previous 20 years. We are a country where, on the basis of a disability pension, which is a special category, it is a pension paid to someone who has suffered from his job, it must not be abused, and it is abused in Serbia and you know it very well. It retired 40% of pensioners below the age limit. What makes Serbia special compared to the whole of Europe? Why does someone 60 have to retire? I mean women. In all of Europe, the rights of men and women are equal. A 65-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman, so the age line moves. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic, it has been two minutes. ) Do I also have the right to a replica of Mr. Krkobibić?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5064	Now you don't, you'll have to answer again. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5065	Mr. Krkobic, I like to pay my bills, but I have no idea how to fund your incompetence. When you issue a business space, then that business space should have windows, there should be heating, and there needs to be electro-installation in that business space. If it's all gone, then you're like someone who rents that space, tricking whoever rents that space, and you won't get a dinar until you've paid off that business space you rented us. You won't get a penny, because we make that money, we don't take that money out of a budget like you. That's the difference. If we're talking about pensioners in Belgrade, what you're doing, it's not caring, it destroyed Belgrade. How much, finance minister, is the City Transport Company down? Ten billion, so that you can strut in an election campaign with a story – here, pensioners, don't pay for the ticket. This lack of payment will lead pensioners to walk in Belgrade. A billion euros is in charge of Belgrade. That's the policy. Public enterprises are operating according to the 2006 and 2007 pricemakers. What does Belgrade look like today? Only the police work in it and no one else does. We don't like that. Belgrade has become a source of populism and demagogy, instead of being the engine of the country's development. The unemployment rate in Belgrade is above the republican average. The illiteracy is above the republican average. Social policy is catastrophic. Your Grace, it's not a strategy. You are not the one who inherited Belgrade and now has the right to honor Belgrade as it comes to mind, but it takes order. We'll see the next year's budget and the republican budget here, where pensions are practically frozen because of the impact of inflation on the course. That's the facts. For what you've done well, well done. One of the positive effects is the fact that you affirmed part of our society through your political action. It would be good if other parts of our society were to this extent affirmed, but you cannot fulfill the interests independently of everyone else's interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5066	Thank you. The word is Mr. Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5067	If we don't want to pay the bill, it's not why the windows don't breathe, because imagine if the citizens of Belgrade now say they're underheating and they won't pay anything or the elevator doesn't work so they won't pay anything or anything. I'm very specific, I've tried to be extremely correct, you really need to settle your obligations. You're giving a positive message to the people who are following you, that you're responsible. It's a higher level of responsibility. That's what I insist on. That's what I expect from you. As far as the data you've provided for Belgrade is concerned, there are people who deal with the economy, they're completely fake and unemployment and everything else. Belgrade is a locomotive for the country's development. Belgrade is something Serbia sees, but if you do not participate in Belgrade right now, so don't judge through the prism. You're good at Tutin. Why? It's good there, too. I'll use my time again. Mr Dinkic, please answer the question, not to me, but to half a million people are now waiting for an answer to the question – will September and December next year be able to count twice 4,000 dinars? That's a very important question. This is a concrete life. These people live on it, they expect it from you, and I have to ask you that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5068	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5069	You want me to make it public, but you know it since your father voted for what we suggested in the Serbian Parliament. So the answer is next. The payout program, so-called. The 13th pension, which allowed the support of pensioners who were socially endangered and whose pension is below 15,000 dinars per month, was adopted at the end of August, and its application began in September and lasted a year. The first two wars are paid, one is paid in September, one is now due before New Year's Eve, the third at the end of March and the last at the end of June. With the draft budget law, which you all have here and you can clearly read, in agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, this measure will be replaced by a sustainable social protection measure within the framework of the protection of vulnerable layers of the population, as both by the Fiscal Council and by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection and the IMF is estimated not to be the best targeted, that it is necessary to protect pensioners with low income through regular protection within the framework of social policy. Such a measure will be adopted at the time when fiscal rules provided for by the Budgetary System Act are re-applying. As you know, this year, due to the need to reduce the budget deficit, we had to change the Budget System Law and instead of indexing according to fiscal rules to increase salaries, and hence, pensions by 2% in October, 2% in April, and from the fall of next year we return to the normal formula. Then Serbia will also have economic growth and then we will help those pensioners who need it through classic social protection measures. In other words, this kind of payment will be completed after one year, therefore, at the end of June, but that does not mean that there will be no further support for low-income pensioners, but through regular social protection from the budget. That's what the government's consensus is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5070	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5071	I want to tell you again, Mr. Krkoban, that you won't get a dollar from our party until you learn to make money. So you can't rent someone a business space, and then someone comes into business and realizes it's a scam. So it can't do that anymore. Maybe she can go with someone else. Maybe she can't go with us. We're paying our expenses, but with the right goes the obligations you need to know, given the years, don't let me teach you that lesson. Once you go to the polls anywhere, then comment on the election results. We received 70,000 votes in Belgrade, and that should be respected, and people should be respected. The failure in the city's elections is, among other things, the consequence of our assessment that we should pay this society a price that has been taken over by serious changes within Serbia itself. We also supported you as deputy mayor in a position that never existed, because without you, the republican government or the city government could not function. The government's functioning was a prerequisite for some serious and larger political transformations that occurred in the meantime, so now you're in a coalition with those you weren't ready to talk to for years because they were the devils. That's what we did and paid for, and we're not sorry for that. If we have to take that price, we'll take it from here and we'll do it again. As for the 13th pension, Mr Dinkic, in the last 10 years, Slovenia has invested in two million people, in an educated system for two million people, five billion euros. Serbia with four times as many residents has invested 10 times less money. There won't be a 13th pension if this country doesn't function again if we don't raise it to the level at which it has to be to remove such large anomalies as those described by our educated system as a system from which 30% of students come out functionally illiterately.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5072	Mr. Krkobic, did you want to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5073	I think Mr. Dinkic, he's a little confused with some concepts, he's an economist, when he said he had agreed here, he probably made a deal with Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Jovan Krkobibic. He could have arranged somewhere else with my father, and I wish he had that in mind. Speaking of sons and fathers, I'm extremely proud of my father, but I'd like to warn you a little bit, it's hypocritical to mention it, not to mention yesterday that Mr. Pastor, one and the other. It is hypocritical to note that there is a Mr. President Tomislav Nikolic and President of the Executive Board, Radomir Nikolic. You seem to have a general problem with the Krkobabians. Let's not do that. So the truth is always clear and painful. So let's stick with that. Once again I appeal to you, since 70,000 people really voted for you, set an example for them, do not let 70,000 Belgrade citizens take your example. Therefore, I expect it from you. You're a responsible man and you're going to give them a positive example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5074	MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is hypocritical to mention that the mention of Tomislav Nikolic is no longer SNS president. It is also hypocritical to note that Radomir Nikolic does not have a single public function. So if you have any conflicts with former coalition partners, don't get us involved. We're in this coalition doing the same job, there's a lot of problems as you know it, and I don't want us to be positing between us now, but to turn around and get these problems that we have and that we have to solve, to turn around and work on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5076	Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5077	I'll stop the controversy here. I agree that there is no need to bring these family debates here to parliament now, but I simply think that some of the questions that have been raised have been asked to give answers to them by the finance minister and then be branded for it. As far as I'm concerned, every member of the government who voted in favour of freezing and reducing pensions is equally responsible for me, and then here in parliament he accuses us, criticising us for a very clear relationship with the unsustainable pension fund policy. As for Mr. Krkobic, our 70,000 voters. We wouldn't have any of them if they were to support your behavior by example. You are paid to sit in the post office and do the job of the director and sit in the Assembly. You must learn the elemental order, the service is paid, the job is done. You can't count on justice without running away from responsibility and responsibility. When you meet the payment requirements you'll get money, by then our 70,000 people don't think we should pay. I think everyone else should act like that, start asking the question of efficiency and results. It's all that and nothing more than that. Any success in your efforts to solve pensioners' problems here I absolutely wish you success, but in advance with all the experience that I and our party have you are doomed to fail. You can see that now. That's why you're here for four thousand dinars. There's not even four thousand, and that's what you voted for in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5078	According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that the National Assembly will be working today and after 18.00 hours, until the end of the joint principled search under points 2, 3 and 4 of the sitting agenda, because of the need for the motions of this session to be carried out as soon as possible. I'm setting a regular one-hour break and we'll be back at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5079	We're going back to work. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5080	Dear Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, I'm sorry the hall isn't full enough yet, but it doesn't matter. The budget is the most important document to be adopted in one parliament and it is not just an economic and financial document, it is not a simple plan and a single country's income and expenditure schedule, it is a political document. He is the financial expression of the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy at the moment. We're actually discussing the government's 2013 policy here. It is the importance and importance of this debate and I want to talk about it and to give my opinion, the opinion of my parliamentary group on this document, that is, the government's policy that is announced by this budget. There is one fundamental difference and something is quite obvious in relation to the budgets that we've been making for the past five or six years. First of all, this budget arrived in the Assembly on time, today it's 23. November, and we are discussing the budget and it has not happened in this assembly for a long time, and it is something that is good and thus the government respects this Parliament, above all, Serbian citizens who care to see what is expected of us all in the coming year. Serbia's budget redistributes a significant part of Serbia's social gross product, and that's why it's important. What else is this budget different from some of the previous ones? He has a clear vision and a clear goal that no one has challenged in this congregation today. He is both realistic and consistent, i.e. he is sustainable. I'll try to make a few arguments in favor of what I said. I'm sure anyone who talks about this budget today and says they don't have enough resources for health care in this budget or for agriculture and social protection and culture, I'm sure they'll be right. Perhaps the public will support such an opinion. However, the budget cannot be a wish list, and even real needs, it is brought into the conditions of the serious restrictions that we as a state have. I also want to remind myself of the state of public finances found during this year, namely, picturesquely, that our state-owned ship in a financial sense fell seriously during this year, stayed in place, neither forward nor back, leaned with the threat of being submerged. What was I supposed to do? He was to be reached at the port first, to make the necessary adjustments and to allow him to sail further. It was also done with a set of financial consolidation measures and during rebalancing and now with this budget. What's the quality of this budget? First of all, I see quality in the following laws and in the adoption of rebalances and those laws that will follow after the debate on the budget. In fact, these laws create assumptions that we have stable and predictable public finances and sustainable, which is most important in the coming period. The first set of financial consolidation measures to bring about a rebalancing reminder made it possible for us to end this year with a smaller deficit than anticipated. So we're going to have a smaller deficit of about 20 billion dinars and the total deficit at the end of this year is going to be 6.1% just over 6%. During the adoption of the rebalancing, laws that abolished 138 pairs of fiscal charges were also abolished, a number of fees, fees were lifted, own revenues were abolished by different institutions and ministries, small and medium-sized enterprises were allowed to pay VAT at the expense of goods, loans for liquidity of the economy were pumped, different laws in the field of excise duties, VAT and all in all, provided stable financing by the end of the year and redundancies of the economy. Usually in these discussions, the most common question is whether the budget is developmental, social, sustainable, whether it is stable and who are the winners and who are the losers of this budget. I believe that none of the ministers in the government are fully satisfied with their budget division, which is natural and which may be an indication that the budget is well-conceived. In my deep confidence, I think the biggest winner of this budget will be the economy of Serbia, including agriculture, and of course citizens. When it comes to the budget, it's mostly said that we're going to split the money, who's going to get how much, and very little, how that budget is going to be charged and who's the one who fills the budget. It is, above all, the economy of Serbia and the citizens themselves. A set of accompanying laws that go along with this budget and that go along with rebalancing have just come to the initiative and a proposal by the businessmen and the professional public, if you remember, numerous public debates and conferences and talks with the economy have taken place over the last few months. The key requirement directed towards the government concerned the improvement of the conditions of engagement, the creation of a better atmosphere and the provision of better liquidity. Where do I see this key turn in this budget towards discharging the economy and creating better conditions? In fact, the government's fiscal consolidation plan actually enables one financial discipline, stability, certainty and predictability. The laws to be discussed in the coming days, the law on the limitation of payment deadlines is very important and perhaps, in my opinion, one of the most important ones in this package. The Tax Amnesty Act will also allow us to have one normal flow, primarily in terms of payment deadlines, as the state has so far been a key generator for the liquidity of the economy. If you want and spread it in a way that's being watched, and the generator of corruption. This law is not only in the direction, I mean the law on the limitation of payment deadlines, not only in the direction of enabling better liquidity, but also to prevent some of the phenomena that were, to say the bad habits of the previous period. Namely, what's this about? The state, with its non-payments and quasi-fiscal deficits, which we had the opportunity to hear from the minister, I mean primarily on non-payments in health care, travel business and other areas, brought companies into a very uninvited position, could not meet the basic obligations, to pay each other, to pay taxes, to pay electricity, water, communals, and one chain of liquidity was made. In this respect, these same companies were forced to take very unfavourable liquidity loans, which also affected inflation growth, while the state remained unrequited, to pump up liquidity or, at the very least, those obligations that the state had towards them were carried out on time. You know, in practice, it used to happen very often to get someone from the state of payment, he was forced to either make a big discount, or worse, to pay someone off to get paid. I think with this set of measures, such a phenomenon will be reduced to a minimum. What else does this budget bring us, among other things? The key goal, which I repeat once again, no one has disputed, is to reduce the deficits not 3.6% compared to the current more than 6%, is the key thing in this budget. This includes reducing the country's enormous borrowing, which will take place in the coming period. So we expect to avoid it and get off that edge of the financial break-in that we were on for a few months back. Of course, in the next period, we have something that is certain, stable. We heard from the minister that sufficient financial resources were provided for the country's liquidity by May next year, the funds under which, that is, the conditions under which it is due today are far more favourable, which is good and will contribute to reducing the burden on citizens and businesses. This budget provides for more funding for agriculture. The agricultural budget will be 4.5% of the budget and we expect 2014 to be the 5% we discussed in the previous period. Social contributions have also been increased by about eight billion, while on the other hand we have cuts in costs, primarily on the side of goods and services, and thus will contribute to achieving this key objective of government's economic and fiscal policy for next year. I have to say, I'm a complete optimist, when it comes to the realisation of this budget, and I'm telling you, not just from the experience of someone related to finance, but from the first indicators and determination, first of all, and the willingness of the government to endure on its own. We already have significant savings in this year's budget according to these first indicators, I think this will continue in the next one. I have just received a proposal for a law on public procurement that will also be on the agenda of this assembly very quickly, and this law with all the other laws will certainly allow us to move towards achieving the objectives that we agreed on. For this reason, I would like to say that the URS parliamentary group will absolutely support one of these budgets, which we think is truly, completely realistic in these circumstances, that it is sustainable, that it has a clear vision and that it has clearly defined game rules for everyone. So, I believe next year's gonna be tough, I know it's gonna be tough. We have had the opportunity to hear certain remarks that go in the direction that there are no serious reforms, and I say – what you need more than what is offered in this budget. I don't ever remember that, with one law, especially in the Budget Law, there have been so many reform steps and government moves, changes to the laws that go, above all, in favour of one economic stabilisation, creating conditions for the economy to work uninterruptedly, one better investment climate. It is indeed the last chance that we all make this effort together, which is working at this moment and the government and that we as Parliament support, indeed, I think, this real and sincere commitment. What I want is for us to persist in this and to provide support and give this government a chance at the end of the day, and to have a real debate on this budget for 2013, we actually have at the end of that year, because then we will all be able to give the right grade, whether that budget was real, whether it came true or not. This is how we can speculate, speculate, predict, but I believe that in 2013 we will confirm that this budget was precisely the one that is only possible at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5081	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5082	Madam Vice President, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, dear colleagues, the budget is the most important law passed by the Assembly. He talks about the government's intentions, shows the way it is going and how this difficult economic and social situation will take place. I think the biggest problem with this budget is that it does not fully monitor the political changes that took place in Serbia after the last elections. The Democratic Party of Serbia welcomes your wish and intention to change the policy of the previous government, to implement consistent military neutrality, to turn to both Russia and China, and that's good. But, of course, we believe that these economic changes should also follow political changes and we believe that declaring political neutrality is what Serbia needs over the next 20 years, if we want to raise the economy as well. That's why our message with this budget is very clear, that our country's policies and economies cannot differ in their objectives. We must set clear political goals, which will then result in economic direction. You have no right to a mistake, this government, because Serbia is at risk today. You have no right because of a people who expect to change. That's why they voted in these elections, to get changes in every way, especially in economic. The policy led by the previous government, that the EU has no alternative, has gone into the past. That's good, but you still see continued continuity in your policy with past policy, which is the continuation of European integration. We will be your fiercest critics when it comes to continuity with the policy of the previous government and we will support you whenever you show discontinuity with the wrong measures. Why am I talking about continuity? I'll only list three examples where the budget shows continuity with the previous government. The first is purely political, which is the continuation of Belgrade and Pristina's EU-sponsored negotiations, aimed at establishing a border between central Serbia and our southern province. Only naive people can think that what is happening today in southern Serbia, in Kosovo, cannot have economic repercussions. He'll have to. From our proper political stance as states in relation to the KIM situation and the EU will be directly dependent on results, Mr Ministers and colleagues, economic policy. The second case is the continuation of the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The four-year-old agreement inflicts damages between 100m and 200m euros each year, depending on which platforms we look at the figures. It's a direct damage. The indirect damage to our agricultural producers is much greater. The Republic of Serbia must suspend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to raise its agriculture. Also, I'm afraid, we haven't seen it anywhere in the budget, we've heard statements, I hope that's how it will be, that we'll support you, that you'll take advantage of the possibility that there exists in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in particular Article 41, which allows, if, by applying that agreement, to cause great damage to a particular branch of the economy, in this case agriculture, there's the possibility of stopping or putting a moratorium on it. That's what we talked about here in the Assembly, and we heard from your colleague, Mr. Knezevic, that you're considering it. We hope you'll consider that. If you do not consider that, and if you do not start this process, I fear that our farmers have been waiting for huge, perhaps even insolvent problems since 1 January 2014. The third where politics is seen is to agree to join the EU's common foreign policy. I really don't see any reason why as the country whose EU is trying to take away the most important part of the territory today, we are "candidates", we are talking about some processes that can theoretically happen over 15 or 20 years, to follow an EU policy, which is directly against the interests of the Serbian economy and Serbian politics. Why am I saying this? The previous government made an absolutely wrong decision by imposing economic sanctions on Belarus. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, your government extended the time limit of those sanctions again to another year. Why should we follow EU policy on Belarus? Has Belarus done us any harm? On the contrary, Belarus is our friend. It's a country of 10 million people. They've always been with us. They were with us when the sanctions were here. They were with us when they bombed us. They helped us materially. They came to visit us here. It's a brotherly people. Now let me go back to the economy. It is a market of 10 million people, which today is under the economic sanctions of Western Europe. There's our chance that our market here, which is out of 10 million inhabitants, will increase twice, to go to Belarus, which is not far, to have an open door, to have extraordinary potential for our products that can't be sold today in Western European countries, because there's a recession there too. The amount of exports we have in EU countries today is this big. It cannot be increased because there is a recession in the EU in the coming years. He can only shrink. That is why we should do what other European countries do, go to Belarus, go to Russia and Kazakhstan, because these are the countries where we are the only partner in the world. Again, Serbia is the only partner of the 250m-domestic market, which has no customs duty on products manufactured in Serbia. Mr. Minister, I personally think and recommend, I will support you, to stand at the head of the business column and take them to Belarus. That's where they want our products. I'm talking to the ambassador here, I'm talking to Belarusian politicians, I'm talking to their economists, businessmen, and everyone is expecting products from Serbia to come. I don't see any reason for Serbia to join this irregular EU policy, but that's their thing, their problem. We don't have anything in common with that. I wanted to show on this case that there is still continuity with the previous government in the foundations of this budget, but I really hope that we will change that. I would also like to add that this agreement that we have with the Russian Federation, I see that you understand that and I welcome the continuation of this job in obtaining a 800m-euro loan for infrastructure projects and your desire to win this year, if possible, one part of the billion euros you asked of the Russian Federation, too. That's a good point. Do what the most developed countries of the EU, Germany, France and the UK do. I would like to note that your asking for a billion euros from Russia, I think there are much greater potentials for co-operation. One small Cyprus recently received a second 7.5 billion-euro tranche from the Russian Federation, which it used to help its budget and banking system. In the Cyprus case, we see that the policy that the EU has an alternative is possible even in the EU, as Cyprus currently holds the rotating EU presidency. Why am I talking about political neutrality, Mr. Minister? We also want to co-operate with the Russian Federation and have this free trade agreement, but we also want to join the EU. Business, foreign investors are one of the most important elements to see the market for the next 10 or 20 years, where it will move. All analyses when investing in a country are done for a minimum of 10 years, and usually 20 years in advance. I had a chance last week to talk to a large European company, which deals with food production and which I invited to come and invest in Serbia. I showed them concretely at the presentation of the comparative advantage of our workforce, our good engineers, our potential, especially in Vojvodina, and the most I showed them and what interested them most, they know it well, is the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation, where our products are 20% more competitive than when they are produced in the EU. The answer I got, Mr. Minister, was yes, but you're going to the EU and how much deeper you go into those integrations, and that can happen in a year, two, three or five... (President: Mr. Popovic, come back on the subject, please. We're talking about the budget. Madam Chairman, this is the first time anyone has warned me in five years. This topic is directly related to the budget, to economic development. I'd like to ask you not to count this time. Thank you. If we go deeper towards European integrations, which is the policy of this budget, that is the basis of this budget, all investors know that our main asset in the next 10, 20 years, because you see that the Russian market is in expansion, especially now together with Kazakhstan and Belarus, maybe tomorrow and Ukraine, we can lose. It is therefore very important to remain on the principles of political neutrality, so that we can use all the comparative advantages. I would like to add in this first part that Serbia must say a clear and determined policy of EU conditionality and declare political neutrality, because continuing consent to the EU's conditionality policy means the state border on Jarinj, means a change in the constitution that is the last defence of Serbia's territorial integrity and acceptance of the auditist policy, which makes Serbs unique to blame all wars in the former Yugoslavia. Budget revenues for 2013 increased by more than 27% compared to this year's budget. It pulls off an increase in tax burdens, so the economy, especially that healthy part, won't be easy, but I hope that part will work out in a way that would fill the budget. A significant deficit reduction was planned, from 6.7% to 3.6%. Whether it's going to be like that or it's going to be bigger, time will tell. I think there's an unreal policy on the receiving side. If it were to happen to meet your expectations, maybe that could happen, I'm sure it could happen, with you mentioning "Fiat" and mentioning "The Iron" to Smeder. I suppose they had you in mind and reconstructed NIS, because by exporting the euro five, it would probably contribute to the budget. I agree that "Fiat," if there's an expansion in sales, can contribute to an increase in the revenue side. I agree that NIS can contribute. I'm a little skeptical, I wish I was wrong, if this business with the Ural Car Agency of the Russian Federation happened, and they buy "The Iron" to Smederevo, it would be extraordinary, and it would be great for Serbia, because the Urarl Car Agency is an extraordinary company, unfortunately, not directly from the branch, but it's a user of it. If only one of these three items, I'll repeat, "Fiat", NIS or "The Iron" Smederevo doesn't happen, then I'm afraid the assumption of an increase in income will be less. You have a good, excellent score in October of the month, as regards income and expenditure. That's a good sign, but I have to point out that there's a periodicality in the budget, that it's always third, fourth quarter larger than first and second. I think a real assessment of the revenue side will be able to be given somewhere in April when the first quarter passes. I'm saying, I wish you were right, but I'm expressing one dose of skepticism, especially because in Europe in the first and second quarter, there is a continuation of recession. As for the profit tax, I would add that the general results of this, the results of the good policy, Mr. Minister, are seen in general in the second, third and fourth years. There's definitely going to be some results in the first year, but I'm saying, it's realistic that it's still going to be much better visible after the first quarter. As far as the SAA is concerned, I would add that our farmers are the most damaged after four years. I'll give an example, I looked at the site last night that Poland, Hungary, Slovenia, which are here next to us, have subsidies per hectare from 300 to 400 euros, but since 2000. With us, these subsidies are 120 euros, three times and sometimes four times less, and not always, but only under certain conditions, which still do not meet half the farmers. Of course, I understand that there is not enough money in the budget and we can't make a miracle, but I think that agricultural production needs to be required to consider, in addition to breaking up the SAA and the possibility of an alternative moratorium on this from 1 July 2014, also borrowing, in order to invest, especially, in technologies, food production, in order to invest in irrigation systems, in agricultural infrastructure, because I am sure that in a period of three to four years, you are designing a deficit that should be 1% in 2015, certainly to return the result through additional revenues to the budget. As far as the dedicated industry is concerned, I think she's been neglected. Mr. Minister, I would suggest, you have a great chance, too, in cooperation with the Russian Federation. Three weeks ago, Kyrgyzstan, a small Kyrgyzstan, received a two-billion-euro loan from the Russian Federation for his dedicated industry and military technology. I think Serbs have potential at the Institute of VTI in Zarkov, in ammunition factories, especially in Uzic, where co-operation with the Russian Federation could be great. Also, I think the budget should consider and consider the country's security as well. Next year, Mr. Minister, 2013 expires the deadline for use of all MiG-21 aircraft. Next year it's exactly 30 years since they started using and their resource expires, and we're going to run out of the largest number of planes in our fleet today. One squadron of the latest MiG-29 M2 aircraft today would cost Russia 450m euros, and I'm sure it would raise the level of our country's battle effort, and it would also help in the military parity here in the region, as we are expected to face great challenges. One squadron of 16 planes with 450m euros can also be obtained on a 20-year loan. Of course, I would like to and believe that the budget would need to do something, and I hope that you will have time for the next 12 months, to form three key institutions, in my opinion, to solve the problem of non-proliferation in Serbia, above all, the Development Bank, which has a good basis in the Development Fund. Another would be an export bank, which would serve a healthy part of the Serbian economy, especially that export-oriented. Third, probably, an intervention fund to help major economic systems. I would add that I welcome your idea that since 2014, I would point out that as a good part of the budget, there will be no more subsidies to public enterprises, except the Railways. I would add one more good thing, not to be all black, I think it's very good that capital expenditure can be planned for three years, because I've talked about it a few times here in the Assembly, public procurement in the way that they've been done so far, I think they've been a huge problem and they've been one of the brakes in economic development. I'd add that the state needs to get out of business. In construction, we have the largest decline of 17%, Mr. Minister, and Serbia's construction directorate is today appearing on the market as one of the main investors and is placed... (President: Mr. Popovic, I've given you the time I've taken from you. So, you've been talking for 20 minutes. Please bring the end. I'll finish. Serbia's construction directorate must be as equal as everyone else. When it comes to amendments, I'm also going to talk about information technologies, and I think they're very important. I'd just like to add, in conclusion, that the budget came for the first time in a while, we had enough time to analyze it. I think he is a set of too optimistic expectations on economic trends and I don't think he has taken account of the state of business in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, this crisis is not your responsibility as a government, it is the previous government, but you are responsible for changing this policy. I wish time would deny me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5083	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5084	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would first agree with the recent finding because it is extremely positive that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted the draft Budget Law for 2013 on a timely basis and has forwarded it to the Republic of Parliament for consideration. It simply says that the government also wants the government to take a responsible and serious view of the current situation and that it wants to offer concrete solutions to the Republic of Parliament for consideration and when it comes to budgetary matters, in terms of economic and social policy. The draft budget law for 2013 and a set of accompanying legislative proposals, which we are talking about today, which we will talk about during the next days, are a systematic and comprehensive response to problems that are unfortunately evident. This is actually one real answer to both economic and social problems and it is not a political or economic declaration because there are clearly defined calculated, declared objectives that will certainly be realised. The government wants and shows such a legal proposal to lead one responsible but, above all, a practical and real policy that will have positive effects of realisation in the next period of time. We agree, this budget is a balance, as is said, between savings and development. It is actually a reflection of the need to reduce the budget deficit, which we all understand is to encourage the development of investments, which is positive and to preserve those elements and segments of social justice, which we representatives of the social democratic orientation fully support. Therefore, this draft budget law for 2013 also has a development and social component. It is actually a balance between support and the need to help those who need assistance at this point and these are the most socially vulnerable categories of the population. There are higher social benefits, social security allocations, I think about seven billion dinars. The balance between the socially vulnerable categories of the population and the realisation of those important projects in Serbia is that of the investment character of the budget, i.e. the allocations for infrastructure projects are present, but it is also doubled, as could be heard in the introduction, the agrarian budget, and these are the strategic directions and strategic objectives of Serbia's operation in the coming period. It will always have the support of the SPS Parliament Club. The goals of the RS government certainly cannot be realised without the state's economic recovery. In order to achieve economic recovery, it is important to launch economic activity, production, investment, realisation of capital and infrastructure projects. Developed infrastructure is a condition of a more efficient economy. Without infrastructure, there is no economic recovery and, in our opinion, investment in infrastructure is the only realistic approach to address the burning and essential issue today in Serbia, which is the issue of unemployment. It's not good, unfortunately, it's visible and in this proposal that we're talking about today, that the unemployment rate is growing. We are for an active employment policy, but right through the launch of investments, through economic activity, through the realisation of capital and infrastructure projects. It can't all end up on passive giving. This draft budget, we'll agree, says one more, which is that during the economic crisis, saving the sea should be a priority. Of course, in a period of economic crisis, there is no saving where there is no, and no citizens. The standard of living, unfortunately, is not at an envious level today. Savings at the state level should and must be priority. In defining and drawing up this budget, as far as we could see, it was saved wherever it was necessary and where it was possible, where it was realistic, where it was feasible, and yet it did not disrupt the functioning of the state, that the realisation of the goals of the Government of RS was not disrupted and the important thing was in mind, which is that the burden of the economic crisis must at least be felt by those most socially vulnerable categories of the population. The deficit reduction, I will repeat in one sentence, is a serious, important, determined and courageous move, and as far as I can see, has the support of everyone in the Republic Parliament. What is important is that a maximum effort must be made to implement this budget, as it will certainly be an incentive to further structural reforms in Serbia. In our view, a few are, let's say, the basic characteristics of this budget, which are perspective, household spending, and above all one rational behavior. There's only money for those projects that have complete justification. A clear message was sent to the administration that it is good, but on the other hand, Serbia must enter into the fundamental reform of the public sector, not all must stand in two laws when it comes to nationalisation of the state administration. A message has been sent to the administration, but a message and a business has been sent – there is no unseriousness. What is also important is that mechanisms are envisaged not to accumulate the cost of the state towards the economy. The economy will play an important role in realising the budget. It actually needs to secure revenue and therefore by encouraging economic activity is an necessity at this point. Encouraging economic activity, investing in budget funds through innovation through capital investment, above all, in infrastructure and strengthening the capacity of domestic production for us at this point are priorities. Of course, that's what we were talking about today, and I want to say that it's important that we reach an agreement with IMF representatives. This would give Serbia one adequate credibility from foreign investors and creditors. Of course it's important to consider both the suggestions and the proposals of the Fiscal Council, but most of the suggestion and the proposal of the Fiscal Council, as far as I could see, was just embedded in this draft budget. Subsidies have been reduced by seven billion dinars and net budget loans. Control has been introduced when it comes to the number of public sector employees. It is important to create this mechanism for monthly cost control and to prevent insufficient cost control. These are some things that were suggestions and suggestions, but which were incorporated into the 2013 Budget Law. It's important to control because both the best and the most transparent and the most qualitative budget can ruin its realisation, can ruin the way the expenditure is spent and spent. However, when it comes to the opinion of the Fiscal Council and when it comes to talks with IMF representatives and in one case and another, one should be kept in mind, which is that our interest must be Serbia's interest and the interest of Serbian citizens. With that in mind, a responsible relationship needs to be maintained in this regard. During the rebalancing debate, I said that unfortunately everyone in Serbia seems to have some interest. Our interest in this matter must be unique, which is Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. So the proposal that we are talking about today is a clear programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2013 and that is the basis for further reform moves to overcome the negative effects of the economic crisis, is a shift in public finance policy and is the other part of the fiscal consolidation package. In principle, he has the support of the SPS Parliament Club. We have submitted a number of amendments, but we will talk about this during the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5085	MP Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5086	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, is certainly the government's most important document this year. That budget is, if I understand Mr. Minister well in considering the matter of rebalancing, the first document that can be considered as his. Because when rebalancing, when there were criticisms, his answer was that many bad things in the rebalancing were the result of the work of the previous government, and that his results would not be seen until the budget was completed for next year. So that's it and now we can look at these results. I have to say, I didn't quite understand why the previous government was called for some of the things in the previous budget. They are relevant, given that noises are now heard again that the previous government is responsible for this budget, so that the international monetary fund has lost confidence in the previous government, so it does not want to talk to this, etc., which is, of course, funny. I want to say that when it comes to the previous government, I have to say in the beginning, that the fiscal policy she led was ultimately led on 1 January of this year, or if you want formally with 31 December of last year, fully in line with all the agreements and was supported by the IMF. What we didn't have as an agreement with the IMF, which is the period from January 1st to the formation of a new government. The final address to the previous government for irresponsible policy in the complete period can be interpreted as a discrepancy with the views the IMF also supported, which is everyone's right, but I think it's actually harmful. I did not quite understand why the previous government was accused of being obliged to increase expenditures that could be seen in a monthly rebalance on average of around 20%. Also, you'll probably have a chance today to see on some of the sites related to the macro-economics, calculations were made as the debt moved. These calculations show that not only did not stop the growth of the debt, but since the formation of the new government the rate of its growth has been tripled by the daily measurements, i.e. they also accounted for seconds. But let's leave the rebalancing. He's who he is. We hear that in reality the results will be better than planned. I'm very happy with that information. What bothers me is that these better results are due to high inflation and if we want to bring things to absurdity, if inflation grew by another 10% next month, then the results would be even better. Therefore, we should not boast of the results that generate revenue from inflation. When it comes to this particular budget, which, as I said, has been announced as a creation, as a complete creation, of a new government, or a new ministry, I will not talk about details. He's got a lot of interest in the budget. Thirty people have come forward who want to participate in the debate in particular. That is why I will remain only on the basic elements, i.e. the key set-up of that budget and what it gives us as a policy. That budget is, on the one hand, essentially poorly done. Why is it essentially badly done? Because he's missing for the reforms we're all talking about. As the Fiscal Council has also suggested, the deficit reduction is the result of an increase in income, as a result of the increase in tax rates, and on the other hand, expenditure savings have been generated as a result of restrictions on pension and salary growth. If these are the key reforms that have stabilised the economy, then I am very sorry for the citizens who will see what these reforms mean. What is missing is reforms, which would ensure that the same is achieved with less money. We had a big debate where it was said that there were savings in public procurement, there were various bids, the figures mainly ranged from 600m to 800m euros. When savings are said, I understand that the same volume of goods and services can be obtained for exports that are less than 600 to 800 million. So, not to reduce the amount of purchases, but to save them through rationalization. One of the previous speakers said the law is near the end and will come to parliament very soon. I don't see where those savings are and why it's not shown which items should be reduced by that amount or it counts that such savings won't be. Also, we were witnesses and there was talk that a huge number of unnecessary agencies, hundreds of them were being talked about, would be shut down, because they were unnecessary and that savings would be achieved in this way. Let's use simple speculation. If that's what the agency is, let's save a million euros a year on one. That is an additional 100m euros in savings that cannot be seen in this budget proposal. What you can see, what I said, is that the budget is practically made so that there are no essential reforms and no essential savings, but the savings are generated only at the expense of the macaws of prices and inflation. Secondly, this budget is not formally correct, not in the sense that it is not balanced, but is not correct in that sense, what it proposes and gives the figures that in real life do not have their basis and are not realistic. The fiscal council in its report spoke of the deficit as not 3.6, but probably 4.3, so in some options it mentioned a 5% figure. So this isn't about any fundamental twist, any reduction in neither expenditure nor any fiscal consolidation, but it's one difference between what was six, six comas something to about five, and at the same time even one, 1.5% is due to the scissors price. So, the fiscal council is an institution that is relevant and which is established by the National Assembly to give a fiscal policy assessment, it gives an assessment that this budget does not represent as it is given, that it has no elements that point to reforms and that the 3.6 figure that is mentioned is only one fiction. Similarly, so says the IMF, just not so explicitly, but if you look at the order of events, they're just saying that. On the one hand, the IMF says that the programme that would remove the deficit to 3.6% is too ambitious. We know from the information we even received from the Ministry of Finance that the IMF was ready to accept 4%. At the same time, the IMF is leaving Belgrade, with a finding that I am not sure that you could see in our media, but it is on the IMF site, which says the measures taken by the finance ministry are inadequate at the moment in which they were brought. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the IMF is about to say the following – we would accept 4% of the minus, but what you are offering, although you claim to be -3.6%, we believe that it is more than 4%, because 4% or less than 4% would immediately accept it. Therefore, you have another institution, in addition to the Fiscal Council, which has a negative view of this budget. And I'm not talking about structural things here, I'm talking about whether the deficit really is 3.6% or greater. The answer to what I've been quoting is that, in their opinion, the deficit in this budget is greater than it is officially shown here. Finally, a policy issue arises, and what is it that this budget offers Serbia next year, which it promotes? Summing up everything that's been said, it turns out that this policy can be defined in two or three attitudes. The first attitude is to raise taxes at different levels. The second view is the increase in inflation as a necessary companion to the achievement of the objectives. The third position is to reduce citizens' standards, which is a necessary companion for an increase in inflation. With all that in mind, I'm really wondering if that's the policy the Treasury wants to realise next year? This budget seems to me to me to a greater extent like mathematically or accountingly closed balances, so let's pass, and then we'll see what happens. If I'm wrong, if this is really politics, then citizens can expect further reductions in their standards. True, they're going to have the same salary, but with purchasing power that's going to be much smaller, because right now we've got inflation that's one of the biggest or the last five years, and it's happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5087	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5088	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm a little surprised by some of my fellow MPs. At least every budget must have a predecessor to the previous budget, at least in one part. I am surprised that responsibility is avoided through the criticism of this budget, regardless of how the 2012 budget was problematic and how all of this affected all of these flows that my predecessor was talking about. Let's start first with the IMF and responsible fiscal and budgetary policies. As far as I know, the IMF mission was in Serbia last year about the same time. In principle, they agreed with the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget and therefore came in March to see the implementation of the 2012 budget progress, and the Prime Minister was then Mr Cvetkovic. It was clear by then that 4.5% of the deficits had nothing to do with them. Already then, the deficit was breached and due to a poor estimate of the revenue side of the budget that has been reflected in the optimistic assessment that Serbia will have GDP growth. That growth didn't happen. At that point, the IMF asked for budget rebalances. Imagine, because of politics, not because of citizens, the Prime Minister turned it down. Even though he knows that what he started is inconclusive, he refuses for political reasons, and the political reason is next. There was a pre-election campaign, it could have affected the election score and one bad budget had to continue living until September of this year. So, on responsibility and projections, I would ask the MPs of the former regime not to tell us about it. They put the whole people in an extremely difficult situation. That is why the IMF mission has frozen negotiations on loans to Serbia. How catastrophic -- just according to the government of the Republic of Serbia's report, budget spending, i.e. 2012 budget revenues, concluded on June 30th, were 75 per cent of planned. Only one item was completed almost a year ago, and these are government loans. There, the previous government owed the state 90%, i.e. in the first six months almost a year. And yet there was liquidity in the Republic of Serbia's budget and many of the things capital investments were held to the realization of 50, 55 or 60% compared to what was planned. We are entering the next situation – how do we meet the obligations that the state has made and inherited from the previous government? We can fire employees in the offices of the state administration, the same ones the previous government hired, the previous government that accumulated the state administration. The government's position is that while the global economic crisis and economic crisis in Serbia are not to be fired by workers, but to regulate their salaries to be acceptable to the budget and to work that they do and to comply with the Law on Employees in the authorities of the state administration. That certainly is not enough, it must increase revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget. As a result of the increase, as a reason for the increase in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, revenue in the budget is an amendment to the law on value added tax. It is the only way to implement the lack of funds, without further large borrowings. If you change tax rates, it is natural to expect both certain inflation and deterioration of the citizens' standard of living. But, I'm sorry, for that lack in the budget he was responsible for, firstly, was the president of the previous government and the finance minister who ran the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. Yes, it is true that the citizens suffered certain consequences, both citizens and businesses, but what kind of economic activity did we have until September 2012? In addition to the downfall, we were at risk of our entire economy being inequitable because of irresponsible policy. The euro rate was 119 dinars until the governor was replaced, now 112, 113. Certainly inflation would have been far greater if it hadn't been for this factor of reducing the exchange rate. The previous government was so successful that it spent a billion and 300m euros in foreign exchange reserves, and that the euro jumped from a dinar of 16 dinars and 15%, respectively. Someone mentioned the Public Procurement Act. The law on public procurement promised by the SNS in the pre-election campaign, or draft of that law, has been completed, a public debate has been concluded, and you can expect to see it in a day, two in the Assembly, a congregation procedure, here it is in front of you. Perhaps some of the members of the parliamentary groups have already received it in order to bring it together. So we also fulfilled that pre-election promise, not only when it comes to fighting corruption. If this budget was the best we could have, it wasn't. But that our reality is that it certainly is. If, according to the original budget, for 2012, our deficit was 144 billion dinars and the current 122 billion dinars, then it is clear to everyone how difficult it was to make one of these budgets, provide funds for budget users and provide funds for both government employees and pensions salaries. Just to remind, it means the transfer of the Republic of Serbia's budget to the pension fund is 302 billion dinars. The mandatory social security budget is 280. That's almost 50% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That says the inherited situation in the economy, because these two funds should be filled from contributions paid by employees, and we have a situation to spend 50% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It says in what state the economy was inherited from the previous government. Certainly, despite all these austerity measures, in addition to one responsible public finances management, this can only be a short-term solution in a year or two. The government's job is to create conditions for real investment in Serbia in the next period, except for serious savings. With every investor I've talked to, whether he was domestic or foreign, in the past few months, I've not been able to resist investing in the Republic of Serbia, but I've been afraid that someone isn't asking them for commissions. That fear is not without reason because we started to be in that voice because of the previous government. As big as anyone thinks the world is, and if you lose one investor to bring another, you're wrong. They have an extremely good communication with each other, and if they blacken you, or black us out, that we're prone to corruption, that we're prone to commissions, they'll run away from this country like the devil from the cross. It is the government's job to convince future investors that no capital investment fees in Serbia will be. Of course, it is expected to amend and supplement certain laws that need simple legislation to obtain certain permits and consent, and I believe that by the end of this year a good part of such laws will be here in the assembly procedure. Some are already in the government, some are here. The only way for Serbia to get out of the crisis is to increase citizens' employment and reduce the final pressure of funds on the republican budget. Because if you spend 50% of your money on funds, if you spend 40% of your money on employee earnings, and above all I think about the police, the military, education and health care, then how much you have left for serious investment, and Serbia is not the state that was built and its infrastructure is extremely low, unless you're working on new citizens. So this budget as it is, I believe, is a transitional solution to some far more serious and some much better budgets and gives hope that this government will be responsible for running public finances, giving hope that corruption in our state bodies will no longer be, and therefore the SNS will support this Budget Law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5089	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5090	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SDPS feels that this budget is definitely necessary and we are convinced that it can represent a development component and the possibility that our country will overcome the economic crisis it was in as soon as possible. This government and the Ministry of Finance and the economy came forward, I feel free to say, the worst state of public finances since 2000 until today. But although the budget deficit projected in September to 7.1% for 2012, projections are such that the republican budget deficit will be reduced to 5.6% and the consolidated deficit will be 6.1%. This is due to the very fast and dynamicly adopted fiscal consolidation measures with a whole set of economic laws that defined a serious increase on the revenue side, it is the abolition of its own revenues, it is the abolition of parafiscal burdens, the increase in taxes, which of course resulted positively in a very short period of time. Of course, these measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as far as we can see in recent days, two days ago, the bonds of the five-year-old had an interest rate of 4.82%, ten-year-old of 5.6%, and when compared only to the situation up to a few months ago, with 7.25%, we cannot conclude that this is a serious shift and that it is the result of a stable policy and will and will of this government to implement a strategy of financial stabilisation and definition of clear liquidity, especially in the state sector, but also in the private sector, which I will talk about a little later. I'll remind you, dear colleagues, and for a statement by Jane Armitage, the regional director of the World Bank's office, who, seven, eight days ago, praised the fiscal consolidation measures. Confirmed the projected GDP growth to 2.5% and praised the measures defined in the budget and I must say very important laws that will appear before the esteemed House next week, particularly there is an important law on public enterprises. Today, the law on the increase in profit tax, the law on conditional amnesty and tax debts and deadlines and the law on time-limits for paying debts in the public and private sector is on the agenda. In this draft budget and a set of economic measures that are inseparable from it, as the main objective, we have liquidity, stabilisation of finance and, as the minister would say, debt cleaning. Now, given the fact that our economy is currently inequitable to 913 billion dinars, we come to the conclusion that indifference generates an entire budget. There are some 500 billion dinars in the private sector and some 483 billion dinars in the public sector. So 183 billion dinars in the public sector are the main ones, and 303 billion are interest. With the following law on the conditional amnesty of tax debts, we can only imagine if we could only charge 10% of this amount. That would be the amount of the overall deficit, if I didn't talk about it being and potentially can't argue that it would give such positive effects and that I believe, especially to small businesses, micro-small and medium-sized enterprises to get out of blockades, to regain conditions, to start production and what's most important, to keep jobs and potentially employ new workers. It is very important to note and address the situation when it comes to what is called a quasi-fiscal deficit in the economy, these are the latest ones in health care, the delays towards wholesalerry, producers and pharmaceutical industry, and I remind you that some of the largest, foreign direct investments in Serbia are exactly investments in the pharmaceutical industry and the solution to the problem of 120m euros in state-owned wholesale debt to producers, which was inadmissible and which will be fully resolved by these laws. One of the newspapers and, as I would say, the innovation of the government and the ministry must be innovative in solutions, in such a bad situation, defines also central public procurement in the health sector in the coming period, and the World Bank has predicted that through the system of central public procurement we can save up to 20% of what we have spent in previous years, but also prevent that possibility that all players on that market have been able to use sexually, and that is to blow up the price of drugs and wealth in this way. In this regard, it is also very important that we get a review and a law on public procurement that will solve the problem as soon as possible, in this sense it is estimated about 600m euros that evaporate in public procurement. I am sure that the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a clear and sound intention to co-operate with the DRI to this end and to address this issue in a quality way and to merge that money into the state budget. Under this budget, we will have an increase in tax revenues by ten billion dinars, non-tax revenues by nine billion dinars, and when it comes to the spending side, by 17% will reduce the material costs, i.e. the purchase of goods and services. The cost of social protection will be increased, which the SDP as a party that supports the most vulnerable layers of society and the poorest, favours, will increase agricultural expenditures, and these are all my fellow MPs who have discussed, of course, commended and this is the way to our 5% allocation for agriculture from the budget and the promotion of the agriculture sector as one sector where we have the greatest chance to improve our economic performance. I can't say a few words about subsidies, because nobody's talked about it so far, everyone's saying that the government, the state, the ministry subsidizes private businesses through payments when it comes to opening new jobs, but no one has said that 60% of these companies are domestically owned. So 40% of that total collection of companies that are subsidized are foreign owned and that's true and that's something that can always be checked. I think it's a very good innovative solution, it has generated 46,000 jobs in the past few years in our economy, and it has generated that Serbia's car factory in Kragujevac currently has orders for 160,000 cars in the following year, and this way I appeal, as I have seen in certain budget sections that some of the state institutions are planning to purchase a vehicle, I appeal to all state officials and authorities to obtain a "Fiat 500l" and thus show their economic patriotism. If a resolute minister can drive in that car around town, I don't see any of his colleagues and especially any of the lower officials in the hierarchy, they don't do the same. I appeal to the MPs. When it comes to subsidies in state-owned enterprises, in restructuring, it is clearly defined by the law that this process will be resolved by 2014, and I just want to highlight the representatives of government and colleagues, the MPs, to build a clear strategy of social programmes for those who will potentially lose their jobs and, of course, requalification programmes in the sense that we have people who will be out of work, in line with the needs of the economy and the needs of businesses in our country. I also support improvements through public sector law, improving their efficiency, professionalising the public sector, corporateising the public sector and introducing a corporate governance system through the implementation of this law. Of course, as a Social Democrats, to finish the job, we have a high unemployment rate. I will remind you that a few days ago in Seoul, at a large set of G20, and the world's most developed countries supported state regulation and state interventionism in the economy and I encourage this through the Ministry and the Government, to define and generate as many innovative solutions as possible, along with a social consensus that is very important with representatives (incomprehensible) of work and, of course, representatives of the employers of the University and all those working on the economic and social development of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5091	Next reported is MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will try briefly, as long as it allows me to express my views on the draft budget. In the deep economic crisis that we are in, with a rather high budget deficit, it must be very difficult, but also how important it is to provide development projects. Of course, development projects are important for the whole country, but they are urgent for undeveloped areas, especially for extremely underdeveloped municipalities, in order to prevent their further lagging and degradation. In addition to mountain-mounted and border areas, since the 1990s, a number of municipalities in Pcinjski and Jablanička district through which Coridor 10 passes there is a drastic lag compared to developed areas. It must be the most difficult situation, I've talked about it many times here, in the Presevo municipality, in which and of such a small number, about 2,200 previous workers in social, commercial companies, are now employed only about 500, of course, in private, commercial capacities. The unemployment rate is even higher than the record 70%. The corrected folk income, what I had opportunities to do in the last reports that were given in such a way and in such a format, is even about seven times lower than the corresponding national average. This dramatic lagging of Presevo, including Bujanovac and Medvedje, takes place despite the functioning of the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for these municipalities, which means that this government body, including the government itself, has failed and failed to implement its own 2001 programme to address the crisis in these municipalities. In addition to certain initial announcements, the new government has been proving more and more these days that it is not ready to move more significantly in solving very serious and sensitive life problems in this area. Instead of a more serious approach to address this serious, sensitive situation, lately inflation, a series of top government officials' hot statements. First, so-called. That term, "false asylum seekers," so people run away from torment, looking for solutions, they don't have it in places where they were born, in a country where they live. Then, this last, threats with the possible use of excessive force with problems that have been present since 12 years ago, when the conflict in the area was. We thought they were resolved, but it looks like that time will go to a state of emergency as soon as there's all the special forces of the coalition. We now have the appointment of a Co-ordination Body Manager, which is conducted without consulting the legitimate representatives of Albanians in the area and the MPs who are here, including the president and other municipal leaders. In principle, they're the very logic of colonial, and from here, some governor is determined to go there, because they don't know, they're not smart enough to solve their problems, but they need to be imposed from here. Then you know where such logic leads, what leads us. Instead of getting close to some national average, we still have a drastic lag. I think the chance was with this budget some things compared to the previous period, to the previous two or three years, that there are more effective proposals in this respect, again, absolutely no matter what the government has changed. The structure of the position for the Coordination Body remains the same, one quarter goes for the service, which for the salaries, which for some of their activities, and only three quarters are for development and for the needs of the people on the ground, and the service is all mainly from Belgrade. I don't think this really makes any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5093	Thank you. Next reported is MP Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5094	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look briefly at the fight and disability protection. I think this is a subject that's very interesting, I think these people who are going to be watching are lying or sitting and watching us. If we look at the cost structure - Section 29, it is evident that the participation of the funds for payment of the rights of users, transfers to social protection institutions, transfers to compulsory insurance organisations, the total funds of 99.21 was in 2012, so much is expected in 2013, the participation of the funds defined for Section 29 total in expenditures from the Republic's 2012 budget was 11.79% in 2012, and in 2013 12.57%. I'll take a quick look at function 010. With this function, it is planned to pay out the rights in the field of combat-involvement protection and that - payment to the military disabled, wartime and peace-doping, amounting to 14 billion 60 million 650 thousand dinars for 2012, and was used by 38 thousand users, i.e. 14 billion 155 million 650 thousand dinars for 2013, for about 37,000 users. The individual rights generated by these users are the following: personal disability, a certain percentage of the basis for disability and moves into 10 groups, divided into 10 groups, care and assistance supplements, orthopedic supplement, orthopedic and other patient aids and privileged, medical examination rights, passenger motor vehicle rights, monthly income, material rights to users of the right, material security for unemployed, wartime disabled, the right to a combat supplement that only wartime people with disabilities achieve, while in a working relationship with full-time working hours, on condition that they are less than the monthly earnings of the average net earnings, increased by 30%. For users who have residence abroad, who have obtained the right to pay under applicable laws in the area of martial law in the Republic of Serbia, payment is made through NBS, their accounts in the countries of residence or through the power of attorneys in the Republic of Serbia. Payment to civil people with disabilities of war of 900 million dinars for 2012, and for about 1,500 users, or 950 million for 2013 for 1,500 users. Invalid receipts for these users shall be paid in a manner intended for as well as for military people with disabilities. Post-mortem aid, funeral costs for beneficiaries of the rights of martial law of 70 million dinars for 2012, i.e. 75 million dinars for 2013. In addition to the above, beneficiaries of rights in the field of martial law, users, families of fallen fighters, families of military people with disabilities also appear. Members of their families of fallen fighters are considered mates of the deceased, his children born or adopted, parents, adopted under certain conditions related to support, brothers and sisters, as well as grandparents. The rights of family members are the following: family disability, increased family disability, health care, free ride per month, cash receipt, care allowance, family allowance, as well as funeral expenses and assistance in the event of death. The basic parameters for determining the amount of the right are the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia without taxes and contributions from the month preceding the payments. This implies that these incomes are adjusted monthly with movements, growth or decline and earnings. That's why I've defined myself to read this to you. I know all MPs know these parameters, but it's very important to hear this from those people that this applies to, what awaits them in 2013. There's no big difference compared to 2012. They're interested in this life because they don't have other options. They are not very interested in what is on the daily political menu of some bosses, some parties, they are interested in how they will survive in 2013 and prepare for it. In addition, the United Pensioners Party has prepared two amendments, which it believes will improve the 2013 budget. In addition, we have prepared one law, and two laws are still in preparation, the Social Entrepreneurship Act, which was spoken of by my predecessor and party friend, and the Law on Combat and Disabilities Protection, which will take place in the first half of the following year, the Law on Military Memoriales. We have abandoned the cemetery of warriors and monuments both in the country and abroad. The only law we're going to make and that's the problem we're going to solve. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5095	National MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5096	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, authorised members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all, I believe that the budget represents a mirror of a nation and its development plan, and many will agree with the philosophy of a nation. It is clear that the philosophy of the Serbian society has fallen on state officials and pensioners because half of the budget will go right on top of them. When we look at the budget to provide subsidies to the economy and agriculture of 82 billion dinars, and on the other hand 90 billion will be given only to interest our debts, then it is clear how powerless the government is in Serbian public finances. It is in vain for all young people to stay in Serbia when only sevenm euros are allocated to the Youth Fund, and the government's Air Service will receive threem euros again, as was the last budget, while the assembly will spend as much as sevenm euros. It is also clear that the budget deficit will grow during 2013 because it is certain that there will continue to be a drop in employment, which will cause both budget revenues and expenditure growth on the other hand. No one from the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia, nor the SPO can believe the Ministry of Finance's claims that the VAT increase will actually lead to and increase budget revenues, because if the VAT increase solves all our deficits then I must say that you increase it to 40%, so you won't have a budget deficit at all. Things are actually very different. We'll understand that the economy has almost gone to the black market due to an increase in VAT. We will realize that this will reduce company accumulation and increase debt. We're all witnesses of a bureaucratic state, and everyone's been talking about a huge state apparatus for years, except no government can cut it down. I don't know why this bureaucratism is constantly being nurtured and I ask the question at all – such a relationship between administration and economy is actually two tas on the scale. If one slips, he can only return to balance if the other is removed as much as the first. The economy has removed the burden by firing workers, so in order for these same workers to get back to work then the state has to fire just as many civil servants. That'll cut red tape. That measure is going to hurt for a while, which is necessary, but because of this measure instead of giving 266 billion, as foreseen by the administration's salary budget, let's just give them, conditionally speaking, 200 billion, and focus the remaining 66 on economic recovery when we're already calling on the economy so much. The money the state invests in the economy is 82 billion dinars, and the money the state spends on interest payments is 90 billion dinars, and that's the price of our whole plan. Serbia, in my humble view, continues to drop because the budget envisions that Serbia will be in debt next year for almost a billion euros with all those announced Russian blings and will do a total of two billion, and today the public debt situation is 15 billion euros. In the end, I will conclude that in a case like this, the treasure is for us, but I just want you to remember that what is indefensible is never and nothing can be defended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5097	National MP Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5098	Thank you. Dear Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, although it is still budgetary and calendar in 2012, the most significant basic law for 2013 is certainly ahead of us, the one that represents the frameworks in which the state will function and, despite the large number of MPs already commended this fact that the draft budget law is ahead of us in November of the month and I will take the opportunity to point out the seriousness of government work and also to commend the fact that the budget came to parliament in time, which we as MPs had quite enough time for this document that has almost a thousand pages to fully look at and study. As the president of my parliamentary group said about the budget very often is spoken either as a developmental or as a social or as an investment group, and we can certainly say about this that it is a bit of everything, but if we wanted to characterise it as special then it is certainly a balance between the necessary and possible in 2013. In order to take a realistic look at this 2013 budget, we need to remind ourselves of the conditions in which it is real, and it is real in the conditions of the extremely difficult economic crisis in which our country is in, in the conditions of extremely accumulated problems, the catastrophic state of public finances, the huge public debt, the accumulated obligations that our colleague was talking about, and I will remind you that the 90 mills that are foreseen for interest are obligations that the government must implement because such a situation has come to an end, also in the conditions of very fallen economies, huge unemployment and low living standards. What preceded the adoption of this budget is a whole set of measures and laws taken to stop the collapse in which our country started and most importantly this financial year is the fact that this dizzy growth of the budget deficit has been halted, and that already clearly defined and measurable activities with a budget deficit and public debt in 2013 have been significantly reduced. For those of us who originally see our place in local self-government, there are several reasons why we will support the draft budget, because it was of great importance to look at how the government will treat local self-government. Taking into account that we are at a very difficult economic moment when it is necessary to save at all levels for every praise that local self-governments are treated in a partner relationship and not in an immeasurable relationship, which in 2013 is not a question of funding local self-government, and that the proposal is to keep the local self-government still in place at 80 per cent to 20 per cent of the profit tax on local self-government benefits, which is what we have actually respected both the needs and the rights of local communities and to organise, organise and develop their environments on their own, but to respond to what has been done. This isn't the law we're making today. It is treated by another law, one for which the URS received the support of half a million citizens, and just by applying the law managed to bring many local communities back to life. Another important thing for local self-government is these planned funds to maintain local road infrastructure, a network that is excluded from first and second-row state roads. As we have heard from the minister for these purposes, about four billion dinars are planned and this is a great relief to local self-government because in the previous period we are used to getting new obligations as local self-government, without these new obligations being accompanied by adequate resources. This planning, however, provides for one part of the money to go for winter road maintenance, and the other part, which is the majority of over three billion dinars as support to cities and municipalities for investment regular and occasional maintenance. This makes it absolutely clear to local self-government at this point what money they can count on and how much money they can plan for the relationship of their work. The third important thing is increased transfer funds for local self-government for 145 cities and municipalities. The transfer funds next year will amount to just over 35 billion dinars. Transfers from municipality to municipality, from city to city but absolutely confirmed support policy for less developed environments, local self-governments in which URS MPs will have to see the application of the principle of more equal regional development. We should not repeat at least in this home how much inequality there is in different parts of Serbia. We should not talk about how this lack of development has led to the extinction of all parts of Serbia and that people from such parts are moving out. The prerequisite for stopping such a situation is that different parts develop uniformly, that employment is raised and that, by attracting new investments, these areas are put on their feet. We believe that both Fijat and Jura and the new plant in Pećinci, which should employ about 600 workers and new factories in Vranj, which needs 1250 workers and the expectation that the problems of Smederjev Irons will soon be solved by a new strategic partner and 220 signed contracts with companies, which will open about 5,000 jobs over the next three years, but also through Serbia, invest around 120m euros in real hope that we are just ahead of this balanced economic development. Significantly in this budget for MPs from the Woodland or, to be more specific, for the Members of the United Regions and MPs Together for the Forest within the United Regions, it is precisely this fact that the government has provided for greater redistributions for agriculture. So, not only for subsidies, but at all investments in this sector and that for the next financial year it will be about 4.5% of the projected budget. Also, under the conditions of a severe economic crisis and a low standard of living, it is not negligible that separations for social protection have been increased. I will remind you that the rebalancing added about 10 billion for all donations and an additional increase of about eight billion dinars is foreseen for next year, which really shows the government's social responsibility and especially the finance ministry. The fact that the government has at the moment provided a stable financing of government commitments for the first half of the year is certainly encouraging, as at least there was a depressing state in which the country was in the summer, when liquidity was almost daily. If we know that the unquestionable payment of salaries, pensions, social benefits, childcare benefits, maternity benefits, unemployment, subsidies in agriculture, parental allowance, other people's care, functioning of health care, judiciary, military, culture, police, then we can say that at this point it is easier to breathe, but that there is a very large task in front of this Government and the Ministry of Finance and a very large responsibility. What should be the key words for the next budget are savings, rational spending and control, and if any of this is missing, there will certainly be no expected effects. It looks like we had a chance to see in the first half of the year. In addition to the draft budget, we will also have several important accompanying laws, which will significantly help businesses, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, as they provide relief for accumulated debt and redundancies in work. In fact, they are the answer to the crisis situations in which these companies have found themselves. As the elimination of 138 parafiscal burdens has been a significant relief for many, this new package of measures should be an incentive for those who work and who can employ others. Members of the United Regions will support the adoption of this law, and in particular we will support the government in its efforts to introduce order and control in public finances and introduce order and control at all levels. Of course, we will ask the minister not to increase the VAT to 40%, even if that was said in a joke, but to show seriousness in the programmes he has already drawn through this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5099	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5100	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to talk about a few terms, which are inflation, credit, interest and guarantees. I don't think inflation should be spoken of here, because we and our citizens, who survived in the 1990s, know what inflation and the concept of inflation are. I watched how our 2013 budget was drawn up. The projection of this budget is with an inflation of 5.5%. As for November and December, I read so, some experts say 13 to 15% of inflation is in our country. Maybe we'll start a new year in January with an inflation of over 10%. So I think the projection of the entire budget, which was projected with inflation of 5.5%, is a little overly optimistic. If we're looking at inflation, it's about the dinar course. Looking at our budget, we're a country that uses a lot of credit. It doesn't take a great financial expert to come to the conclusion that our state, if we look at banks, is the best bank commissioner. Maybe there isn't a bank in our country that didn't give us credit without talking about other states. We have so many credits to date that in the next 20 years, maybe even more years we have to pay credit payments if we don't take another loan. We heard today that we were planning to take a loan from Russia and China, if I remember correctly. We'll take even bigger loans and pay off these loans by 30 years, up to 2042-2045 years. This is what we're giving MPs a job for the next few terms of office. As a former banker, I say no credit is a good loan, and if it's small interest. The bank's credit is certainly profitable with 1% interest. The best credits are those that are given without interest or return, but there are no loans that don't come back, but at a minimum interest rate like 1%, we've heard about them, and we might also take that if we get to that situation. Unfortunately, we're also paying interest on loans. This year, as I saw in the budget, interest payments are 25 billion dinars higher than it was last year or this year. I'm talking about 2012. So, in total for 2013, we're going to have 95.5 billion interest to pay, and in the next few years, this sum will, unfortunately, increase. The fact must be pointed out here that if we look at interest loans, then our country has so many credits that, unfortunately, the people of the war payoffs are about two, two and a half thousand euros. So, not just us, but our kids, and maybe the grandkids will have to pay these interest loans, but we're buying up front what we don't have money to do right now. As for the guarantee, here I can say that it is positive on our part that in this budget the guarantees given to public enterprises, which have so far been given to maintain liquid liquidity, are not given, thank God, in the coming years, but these guarantees are only given for investment. If we look at only guarantees, we can find that one week of our public debt, that's about 2.5 billion euros, that's our guarantees. According to the 2013 Budget Law, some 41 billion dinars are foreseen in public enterprises. If we're looking at the fact or agreement, as with the IMF, I think this upper limit was about 30 billion dinars. So, we're giving a little more guarantees, and then the IMF will definitely... Just to warn you that time is up. Please, just get it over with. Let me finish. So, the IMF will certainly criticise this measure of ours, but I hope it will not be an excuse that every guarantee in the EU is the guarantee that is activated. So unfortunately, in our country, every other guarantee is activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5101	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5102	Dear President, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the SPS parliamentary group's position on the draft budget law was laid out by our friend and friend Djordje Milicevic. I'll just repeat that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed budget. The second thing I'm saying is, given that this is a principle debate, I'm going to stick to a few questions just in principle. When there is a debate in particular, we have a lot of concrete proposals that we will then present and seek support for them. Before I look first of all at two questions, when it comes to the budget, I would like to say that I am giving recognition to the Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's government that the budget arrived in this assembly almost a month ago. It means that it's been so long for everyone to get to know each other, that everyone gets involved in his consideration, and that when there's a debate, everyone shows their position, acknowledges to the government for it. Starting with the budget being a basic document of the government's economic policy, this means that it is saying what the government's economic policy will be. I just want to look at the budget from that angle and say a few words. I think the government's economic policy has one continuity of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's exposé beyond the measures that were taken when the budget rebalance was adopted and here is now another package of measures through the adoption of this budget. This can also be seen from the objectives set, which are four objectives: macroeconomic stability, economic recovery and economic growth, a reduction in the fiscal deficit and a slowdown in public debt and structural reform. Why is it rightly put first – economic recovery? Of course, when we talk about macroeconomic balance, stability, we have in mind that it is crucial for economic recovery, i.e. economic growth. Why is this put in priority and why does he have our support? Because there is a difficult economic and social situation in Serbia, and at least we will all agree on that. The hardest and biggest problem in Serbia is that because economic recovery and survival is number one national priority and that everyone else also depends on it. It is precisely the government's pledge and attention to economic recovery and the growth of businesses in the way it has done, as it does, through an increase in investment, that I think the public is very much monitoring and recognising the government's commitment to this goal to provide, both in the country and abroad, as much investment as possible that will enable Serbia to recover the economy. Yesterday we had a chance to have the prime minister in Frankfurt in the afternoon in Turkey. Ministers work on it every day, every single day, and that's what I want to say in public and support. Of course, when it comes to the financial part, primarily through that fiscal consolidation programme and the anti-crisis programme, the government has made a significant contribution to the recovery of the economy and exit of the recession. Of course, there are stimulating measures for the economy. Especially to point out, there are subsidies for agriculture, which can also be a major engine for Serbia's development. I think it should add further activities to Serbia's re-industriousness, dedicated to greater attention to the metal complex, therefore, to all that is production, which can make a new value, because only production can by strengthening the economy, by strengthening production enterprises, can make money, can fill the budget, can provide stable financial stabilisation, can employ, and employment today by one man in Serbia is the top priority and task of this government and the ultimate goal to which we all aim – increases living standards. So that's why we give full support to this direction of government, when it comes to economic recovery and economic growth. I also warn the government that it must then or at the same time take measures to pay salaries, that it must become normal in Serbia to pay the worker a salary, to pay taxes, because the data that 183 billion unpaid taxes are no higher than the fiscal deficit, and twice as much as giving social protection and contributions that would be charged would not be so much a cry for a pension fund and so much retirement. When it comes to fiscal policy and the goal that has been set, which is to reduce the fiscal deficit and stop public debt growth, I think everyone has to support it. What the government predicted, a 3.6% deficit is a strong, strong turn and, I must say, a brave move from this government. This government has also shown courage on this plan, just as it shows courage in the fight against corruption, crime, the fight for Kosovo, the EU etc. So, a bold move that I believe this government will make to the end. This can be seen from the planned revenue and from the planned expenditure. When it comes to revenues, it is basically an increase due to tax increases. Taxes were said when there was rebalancing, today's profit tax agenda. I want to give full support to the increase in corporate income tax, because we believe that there is not only an increase in income, but rather a policy to give more to those who have more, less to those who have less, and those who have nothing, to give them the state. Also, the increase in profit tax also opens up space for a reduction in income tax, and this is also one goal that we seek, as a reduction in profit tax creates a condition for new employment. I repeat, this is our main task for all of us in the coming period. In the end, we consider it correct to increase the capital tax and reduce the labour tax. When it comes to expenses, we saw savings. What I want to support, savings are where it could have been saved. I'm glad I can agree, I'm glad I want to agree that, when it comes to expenditure, a balance is made, a compromise between development and social work. When it comes to development, we consider increased isolation for agriculture, we consider the allocations for capital allocations, primarily for infrastructure, for energy, which, alongside agriculture, can be the engine of Serbia's development. On the other hand, social giving has also been increased, which is what I am looking forward to as a member of the SPS and I think the government has thus shown that those who are at risk, those who are poor, should at least, or should not bear the burden of this crisis. We support the government for its ability to withstand the pressure to unfreeze and not reduce wages and pensions. It increases 2%, but as realistic as possible in the budget. We are for real social policy, as sustainable as possible. We also support what the government has set aside to help the most vulnerable pensioners, and we believe that this should continue. We don't care what model it is, whether it's like this or in some other way, but the government has to show, as it has shown so far, responsibility to the most endangered categories of people. We believe that the government should strive to find ways for pregnant women, families to receive 100%, because it is not a disease, it is something that seems in the most beautiful way Serbia today in increasing the birth rate into something that is beautiful, which is not a disease. In the end, I just want to add that when it comes to structural reforms spoken of, we think it is indisputable in Serbia. The mid-term programme should create more favourable conditions for investors, for economic growth, but I want to point out that, in addition to reforms being necessary, both economic and social, neither of them can succeed without, if they are socially just. That is why we believe and insist that the government proceeds as it has begun, which is the creation of a social consensus in Serbia, the affirmation of social dialogue, to include social partners, and the government, and employers, and trade unions, to discuss all these issues with them. In one word, there is an expression of real social dialogue and the function of the socio-economic council. Without a social agreement, it is hardly possible what can succeed in these reforms in the coming period. Of course, taking care of the interests of employers, but also taking care of the interests of workers. It usually breaks over them. A worker must become a man, not a cost that receives a reward for his work from which he can live and contribute to an increase in the profits of the employer. It can't be, as it is, just the cost of profit. I'll conclude with that, the government has shown courage, determination and determination, and that's what you can see from this. I call on him to show responsibility for budget implementation. I call on him to watch over him every day. I fully agree, and I support what the minister has said, that a quarterly budget implementation is being monitored and implemented immediately. Full support from the people will be to the government of the moment, which I believe, when she manages to implement just as she has drawn out - economic, financial and social policy next year. This budget certainly won't make, in itself, a better life immediately, but it is the first, and hopefully, a real step in the financial sense, and then in economic consolidation, economic growth, and that means a better life for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5103	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5104	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, LSV MPs will not support next year's budget unless amendments to the AP Vojvodina Assembly are adopted, or if issues for Vojvodina are not increased in accordance with the Constitution. According to the Serbian government's proposal, in the coming year, Vojvodina will not belong to the Constitution guaranteeing 7% of the republic's budget. The 2013 budget proposal is ambitious, both at the level of income and by the budget deficit, which will be difficult to achieve because there is no reform approach in the budget that would represent a shift and savings. The announced growth in the economy in 2013 is 2% and inflation is 5.5%. Serbia's budget envisions very few funds for capital investment in Vojvodina, leaving several thousand people out of work. No funds are provided for the reduction of the unemployed, as few funds are planned for capital investments. Economic policymakers have not considered reducing the number of employees in the state administration, which is apparently by expenditure in the 2013 budget. The proposed state budget for next year is not the answer to the problems the government has suggested it will do. The government is building economic policy on the idea of continuing its borrowing to avoid bankruptcy. The foundation of the budget for the allocation of funds to Vojvodina was reduced by 128 billion dinars compared to last year, and only 1.1 billion dinars are foreseen for capital investment in the province, and at least 14 billion dinars are needed. The LSV parliamentary group has submitted amendments to these amendments to achieve a guaranteed minimum volume of 7% of the republican budget for the AP Vojvodina and therefore it is necessary to send 32 billion dinars to the AP Vojvodina budget. According to our proposal, this revenue could be derived from excise duties. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina responded to Article 7 and requested the removal of transfers to other levels of government at which, by draft law in section 24, amounts to dedicated transfers to finance expenditures for persons employed in the territory of Vojvodina for a total amount of 223.5 billion dinars. Thus, the proposal for a law on basic schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina was defined as a dedicated transfer amount of nearly 16 billion dinars, for salaries for middle-school employees around seven and a few billion dinars, for a student standard of around 270 million dinars and for a student standard of around 283 million dinars. Although the AP Vojvodina does not have the authority to finance the expenditure of employees in those institutions, since we know that the Vojvodina does not belong to that jurisdiction. The amendment proposed that those expenditure be implemented directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget, since it is a republican jurisdiction. At the same time, it is proposed that the amount of transfer funds, which are deleted, be increased positions on economic classifications defined by the Ministry of Education and Technological Development. Since these laws are clear regarding the competence to finance the earnings of primary and secondary school employees, as well as in the area of student and student standards in the entire territory of the Republic, there is no meaningful reason why these funds would be transferred to the province budget, and then re-emerged from the province's budget to the Republic budget, and these education institutions are concerned. We predicted that funds intended for the rental of RTS broadcasting satellites outside Serbia were allocated to the Office for Human and Minority Rights which did not receive enough funding, as we know it is funding national councils of national communities. We predicted that the funds for this satellite lease were allocated for the printing of low-cost textbooks, since they were not given the means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5105	There's only one minute and twenty seconds left for the MP's group. The People's MP Radmilo Kostic has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5106	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored President, Mr Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we hear today and we can probably sit here for days and talk about the budget, as the draft budget is a subject that can be discussed not for ten hours, but certainly until Sunday. We can do an item by item in the budget, by technical language, say, look around, find some faults, some disadvantages, could it have been this way, could it not have done this like this, etc. However, under the conditions in which our country and our economy are located, in conditions in which the eurozone economy and the EU are located, the government of the Republic of Serbia has faced one challenge on the one hand because of this problem, and on the other, due to the growing need of budget users to project economic policy through a more realistic budget for the coming year. Many data are likely to repeat, but it may be good for Serbian citizens to check these data more easily next year. Compared to the 2012 budget rebalance, a reduction in deficits from 203.6 billion to 121.9 billion dinars is envisioned, i.e. a reduction in deficits from 6.2% to 3.3% of GDP. The 121.9 billion dinar deficit in general will be covered by the government's borrowing on the domestic and foreign markets, the issue of securities of value, Eurobonds and credit claims. A new 554 billion dinar debt is planned, of which 404 billion will go to old debts, the estimated 121.9 billion deficit will be covered and an surplus in the budget accounts of 28.4 billion dinars is planned. If privatisation revenues are provided during 2013, the state's maximum mandate will be reduced proportionally. The SNS Parliament Club believes that the budget envisions a non-radical, not a sharp, but a realistic shift to reduce deficits, with a slow rise in total costs of 4.3% compared to the total revenues of up to 15.3%. The projections have been defined in continuity for 2013, 2014 and 2015, where a deficit of only 1% of GDP and growth of 4% is forecast in the last year. This is the goal of one serious policy and one serious government. Due to slower expenditure growth compared to revenue, the Budget Law is abounding in spending limits. The restriction is more caused by low cost growth than by their absolute and relative reduction compared to 2012. Efficiently reducing the costs of supplying goods and services by 5% and total subsidies by 7.9%, with subsidies for agriculture growing, which is very important for us from the SNS. I can say that expenditure in the 2013 budget is shown to the smallest details for all users, because there is an analytical basis for the time series and the budget is relatively easy. With regard to the budget in part of the expenditure, it is very realistic and predictable. In the case of income, the situation is more uncertain and difficult to plan. It always comes from certain assumptions, and by changing the assumed parameters, they have a very important impact on the realization. Also, the Fiscal Council in its report shows concern in this part of the budget, believes the deficit will be higher by around 25 billion dinars in the coming year, mostly due to overestimated public revenues, and especially on the items of corporate income tax and non-tax revenue, and due to unnecessary costs, which sets out an example of additional transfers to local self-government, I think it is about four billion, or the payment of allowances to employees in the MUP as social assistance for employees of a minimum amount of seven billion dinars. It is most realistic to expect the planned achievement of VAT and excise income and other taxes due to a clear increase in the rate. Attention should be paid to income from income tax in which the highest item makes a profit tax. In light of the draft budget, one of the objectives is to accelerate economic growth and slow down employment. It's supposed to be a 0.2% drop in employment, and at the same time, a growth in income tax is planned from 45.8 billion dinars to 53.5 billion dinars, or 16.8%. Also, profit tax revenues rise at a rate of 46% or by 22.4 billion dinars. This corresponds to an increase in the tax rate, but the budget proposal comes from the assumption of a slight growth in economic activity in the euro area of 0.2%. We don't need to talk about how much Serbia is based on the eurozone. In the EU of 0.5%, the IMF estimated in October 2012. GDP growth of 2% is planned for Serbia. There is no need to repeat Serbia's connection to the eurozone here. Once again, what is alarming is the report by Eurostat's European Statistical Service on 14 November this year, which speaks of a 2.5% decline in industrial production in the euro area and a 0.1% drop in GDP. The economies of Belgium and Finland are falling. With such data, the issue of income deserves special attention. Despite the always present antagonism of income and expenditure, the 2013 budget proposal should be seen as not excessively restrictive and as such constitutes a good basis and intention to overcome the difficult economic situation in our country and our society. The SNS Parliament Club believes that the 2013 Budget proposal is the basis for a more stable and accelerated development in the coming period, while the SNS will insist on the development of road infrastructure, not only Corridor, telecommunications and IT infrastructures, water supply and irrigation of agricultural land, energy and knowledge, which by nature will lead to the inflow of capital and its even spilling. What I would point out is the problem with budgeting. Today none of the conversators spoke on the subject, because according to some studies, our budget is charged with only 40% of the possible 100%, while the rest is in the gray economy. I presented this information to Minister Dinkic at a meeting of the Finance Committee, and today I gave him a part of the magazine "Tax Tribune", which is a relevant magazine, a research agency dealing with this issue. If for only one percent, or one percentage point worth 100m euros is full of budgets up to 70 real ones, we would have three billion euros more in the budget next year. What's a gray economy? For the sake of Serbian citizens, I'll just say a few sentences, so there's no confusion. We regard the grey economy as income generated by a business entity or an individual, and it does not pay taxes to the state, although it is mandatory under the law. Every country in the world has a grey or untaxed economy and it moves on a percentage basis, depending on the state to the state, between 30% and 80%, which is the case with Greece. We see what's going on in Greece today. The existence of a grey economy generates the emergence and existence of a debt crisis, as the country constantly has higher expenditures per year in the budget than income. In Serbia, the debt reached an incredible cyrfu of nearly 60 points, or percentage points, and in Italy 120% of total GDP. Since the existence of state and tax, it has been a constant tendency for taxpayers to pay or pay taxes on a lower tax base. The whole concept of tax policy is based on the tax payer’s monthly tax returns for various types of tax. There are currently 500,000 registered companies in Serbia. The annual tax administration manages 20 to 30,000 companies, which is only 5 to 6%. The effect of that control from these 20,000 to 30,000 is only 1.5%. The problem of the gray economy has been going on for decades. The increase in the number of inspectors and the tightening of criminal policy has not produced any results. The problem in today's information age needs to be addressed through information and methods, or software that will do the tax inspection work far more content and efficient than any other tax inspector. Therefore, the SNS with a group of experts prepares a software solution that will allow all companies to be controlled on a monthly basis by all types of tax. What I would say in the end, regardless of perhaps some things in the items in the budget that we could correct in one way or another, in the day of voting, the SNS will support the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5107	It was used 11 minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Bojan Djuric has the word, followed by MP Ivan Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5108	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two months have passed, Mr Dinkic, since our last major meeting in this room, when we discussed budget rebalancing for 2012 and a set of laws that you announced as an actual shock wave, the beginning of your major structural and all other reforms. Two months after that, I must say, in a political sense, you are almost entirely alone again in this House. There's a lot of your co-workers from the ministry, I don't mean that, but in a political sense, you and your party are practically behind this budget and defending it. I am pleased that he spoke to a fellow SNS, and before him a little bit Mr Arsic, without it he would have feared already for the fate of your budget, since most SNS MPs in the budget applications did not indicate whether it was for or against, so perhaps it could create some doubt that by the last moment you would have to worry. In spite of that, I think most of the objections, first of all those political, valuable ones, however you will, are the positions from which we criticised the budget's rebalancing in September and the amendments to some other laws actually stand today. You could see that in today's debate. I don't mind you very much, I don't really envy you for the situation you're in and I don't blame you for the way you're making the argument. You are the finance and economy minister in the government run by a prime minister who says on TV he has a huge problem with economists, that he keeps talking to them and that constantly economists at every proposal he makes say something like that is not possible. However, the prime minister failed to think that he may be having a problem, not in all those economists who claim that his country's development models, the development of society, the development of the economy are simply not sustainable. Here, as usual, when talking about the draft budget for the last few years, they keep repeating these phrases about how there are development budgets and how there are social budgets and how wonderful our budget is because it's a little bit of each other and nobody goes any further. So there are clear criteria whether the budget is developmental and whether it is social. The development budget is one that, at the end of a certain year, in this case in 2013, will lead to the economy being higher, to make the economy stronger, to make employment in this country bigger than it is now, that is, unemployment is lower. I will do my best to show you that you will not succeed in 2013 any of these goals, as the previous governments have not succeeded by insisting on similar budget models as you do today. On the other hand, if you say that the budget proposal is socially or socially responsible, then one criterion exists – will the average population of this country live better at the end of the year than they do at the moment, and especially if something easier, something more quality, live in those categories of our population that are socially endangered? Of course it won't be better and easier to live. Here we come to the first group of problems – again you have done nothing to finally determine once in this country who is in a state of social need, social need and who needs help. Today you have had one debate, you have tried to be measured according to your coalition partner from PUPS, I respect that, but you have actually said what is the essence, that the concept of what you have called together the thirteenth pension is not sustainable, that it does not care what categories should be helped and that it is a much better model that you announce that you will achieve it in the second half of 2013, which is to target those pensioners who are really threatened. But so far, there is no proposal, no action by this government, not only for your ministry, but for those who run the government politically, who assure us that such a thing will be done. We've heard it all the same way, in the same formulations and from some previous governments. It's been said many times here. The essence of the budget, the essence of every debate on budgetary, fiscal and economic policy, is a political decision on what you will in one year and from whom you will take and what you will give and how you will give. Your decision was to take more than everyone in the 2013 budget, take even more than everyone, and do so with the measures you adopted two months ago, i.e. by increasing VAT. You've done this by increasing excise duties, and you're doing it with a new bill of excise duties, which you're introducing even more excises from next year. You have decided, on the other hand, that those who are connected to the state, primarily those who work in the public sector or who are pensioners, actually reduce income or income in 2013. I find it fascinating that almost all or all representatives of the ruling coalition, who participated in the debate today, avoid pointing out that fact. Salaries and pensions will actually be less at the end of 2013 than they are today. There will be less for the difference between that minimum growth rate, which you predicted on two occasions during 2013, and the inflation difference that will be. You know that inflation in 2013 will not be 5.5%, it will be significantly higher than that, as in this year we end it was not within the limits of projected, desired or targeted, but it was much more than that. 40/1JJ/MĆ17.50-18.00 There are several ways or several evidences for this claim. There was little talk here, you proposed a law on amendments and additions, or additions to the Excise Act. For the first time, you're introducing something that, let me say, is theoretically commendable, which is a projection of growth or the movement of excises in the coming years. So not just at the present moment, and what example do you want to take? For example, it is excise on oil derivatives. What's the excise today on diesel fuel, on different types? Forty-two dinars, right? What will it be on 1 January 2014? There will be 46 dinars, and then on January 1, 2015, there will be 50 dinars. That means you intend to raise your excise duties by about ten percent. Is that right in every one of those years? It tells me that's how you plan your inflation rate at that age. That you're actually telling us how much inflation is going to be, as you tell us in different ways, as you tell us, and when we look at the difference between this year's budget amount, that is, the amount of the 2013 and 2012 budget. One big question you skipped again, and that's a subsidy question. You told us in the debate this morning, that's what you announced in September that you would radically cut off subsidies. You didn't do it, Mr. Dinkic. They are less due to this amount that is lower in the case of the Fiat, but with the biggest loser, above all at the Railways, the subsidy is higher by 800m dinars, by eightm euros. You didn't do anything about it. When we talk about some other types of aid, you have rightly said, of course it is not a subsidy to the state sector or to public enterprises only what is called a subsidy in the budget. These are other than guarantees, i.e. guarantees, and that the state has been staring at one or two eyes for years and allowing the team, as I would say, to business entities, if at all it can be called some economic entity, not to pay any direction, to make debts, to accumulate debts to the EPS, according to some other parts of the state sector. That's how this gap of indifference that we're talking about all the time was created. How will this change from 1 January 2013? You're saying you've provided for the recovery of old comrades liquid assets, and you're missing out on telling us how you've provided them. Use an argument that I did not expect you to use because it is actually a quote of Mirko Cvetkovic's statement and excuses from the second half of last year. So, when you tell us that you have made an effort to secure stability for the country in the first few months of 2013, you repeat with the same words as Mirko Cvetkovic said in September 2011, when the first series of government bonds was sold. In the end, it turned out that the second consequence came from that belief, but by the end of the first half of this year, we broke through all the budget limits and, as you say, we found the country practically before the bankruptcy half of the year. Mr. Arsic spoke about the fact that in March of last year, that is, this year, which at the outset, the IMF proposed, sought rebalancing and that the rebalancing was solely responsible for the government's president. I would not say that, we talked about this already, everyone knew at the end of December or early January that the 2012 budget was unrealistic and that it would not be realised and that, in particular, public spending, and thus the growth of deficits, and subsequently the public debt would break through dramatically. It's something that will follow you as a consequence of this budget. You at one point, as a sort of commendation to your work a few weeks ago, pointed out that the IMF has an understanding and agreed to a 4% deficit. That's what we talked about here in Parliament. For me, it's not a compliment to the government, it's a statement of mistrust in the government. That's what happened in the end. So, also on the views of the Fiscal Council that says the deficit will be significantly greater than the one that you show four, three, four, four, and that since this government is politically acting that it can be very easily around 5%. A big hole in the budget is the amount of missing iron resources in Smederev. And we talked about it a few times. You haven't given us a single argument that assures us that you can simply, as an axe on January 1st, end the subsidy, grant, call whatever you want, which now exists and that the hardware store in Smedereva, those people who work there or don't go to work and still get some kind of help. Another big question, one big hole in the budget, Mr Dinkic, which is the business issue of NIS, the part of the profits NIS is paying into Serbia's budget and the particular issue of the mining rent which is a specific budget income. Several times we started this topic here, and I see from the draft budget that you are not planning on NIS and Gazprom NJEFT from 1 January 2013 charging a 7% mineral rent for exploited oil in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I was expecting that maybe some MPs from the ruling parties were talking about it here today. There are, for example, several SNS MPs from the City of Kickind, so what is the damage to the municipality of Kickind every year from the fact that the mining rent is 3%, and it's not 7%. What is the damage to the Vojvodina budget, and what is the damage to the central budget, or to the budget of the Republic of Serbia? I'll tell you. Between five or sixm euros on the territory of a municipality alone, a dozen Vojvodina municipalities will lose several tens of millions of euros, while we will permanently lose part of our wealth. I know that your position on this may be partly different from that of other parties who may have more love for this Serbian-Russian co-operation than you do, but it is your duty as finance minister to talk about it and to prevent that kind of thing. The Liberal Democratic Party has proposed several amendments, several major amendments to the draft budget law, and I want to say a few words in this principle debate. So, on the one hand, we have suggested that, in public, much has been said in recent months, constant trauma is causing the topic of transfers of funds from the budget to Kosovo. This budget, as well as previous budgets, envisioned that it is being transferred from Serbia's budget to the institutions in Kosovo by the fact that they sign these tasks together, the competent minister and director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. We have proposed, by our amendment, that the transfer of these funds, that these operations be subject, independently of the annual work plans, to control, or subject to the review of the DRI. We believe that it is useful to put it into the budget and thus introduce effective control. The other thing that is very dangerous is about the company's restructuring issue. With the budget, the proposal provided for the possibility for the government to write off or convert an earlier budget loan to legal entities in the company's capital, that the government would do so on the criteria prescribed by your ministry and with the previous consent of the National Assembly. Such a provision in the law is not possible in Serbia's legal system. The National Assembly cannot grant any approval. There's no legal mechanism to do that. Our proposal is that in such situations the Assembly must pass a special law on each particular case. So the government cannot make such decisions and ask for the approval of this Parliament, but we must make the law as all countries do. One more thing, the Fiscal Council has asked you, as I would say, to keep your budget under control. We support this request, and our proposal is to finally resolve this issue of filing and considering the final accounts, or the law on the final account in this House. Our discussions on the way the state budget is spent will be largely burdened by doubt if we don't do it once. Let's step forward. Let's look at something from the neighborhood, so let's say, let's accept what your colleague, Croatian Finance Minister, Mr Limic, has now submitted to parliament twice a year a final bill, or before parliament, has to get support for how the state spends the money it received from citizens through taxes. Another very important amendment for us is the issue of the National Employment Service and its efficiency. Your donation is 13.7 billion, and we think it's absolutely unwarranted, that the National Employment Service is in many ways a party's outpost, that its costs, especially the costs that are not related to helping people or to intermediating them find jobs, but are related to internal costs, to advertising costs. I see every little bit on Serbian television promotional movies of the National Service, and I don't know what they're serving, that there's one significant piece of the amount, and let's say that it can be three billion, to cut the grant for that amount, and that money is allocated to some other items. To the student standard, to the student standard, because we think it's the best and most effective fight against unemployment, especially future unemployment. One piece into this fund and these funds for refugees and displaced faces. That's why a few days ago, it was a subject here, and we keep saying that, to pass The Hague verdict, and then you see that the amount for the evasive and displaced persons is ridiculously small in parliament, and that's one of our proposals. This will test your political will, it is no secret that the National Employment Service, in particular in a political sense, binds itself to you, to the URS, is perhaps the point where we can test the willingness or ability to conduct a department. Only in the end is the time running out for our group, whether it is an optimistic forecast or not optimistic of 2% of GDP growth in 2013. Let's look at what the credible, regional and European institutions say about this, and I believe that for you, the IBRD, which is a common partner of this government in different affairs and the European Commission, is a relevant source of information. The IBRD at this point estimates or about 20 days ago when it came out, that our growth is going to be 1.1%. The fiscal council says 1.4%. When we talk about the European environment, the European Commission forecasts growth in the following year binds 0.4 and 0.1% in the euro area. So, all of your optimistic forecasts about the huge investments that will come, above all from those investment positions, obviously will not be possible in 2013. I know what your last hope is to achieve a 2% growth. The fall in this year will be so great, especially when it is shown in half of next year, that compared to such a starting base base, as you said, it will be almost impossible to achieve some growth. See where your hopes are and where your foundations are in 2013, in the hope that there will be no drought and that time will be better, so agriculture will work better and in your ambition that you will be able to attract a bunch of new investments in 2013, and this year you will practically end up with a zero balance or somewhere near zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5109	Time, as well as saying, is the LDP time used. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5110	As for these different estimates, let's think about it because I think people know what's true. Literally, there are three good teams in this country who can assess macroeconomic opportunities, and one team is placed in the macroeconomic analyses of the NBS, and another very strong team in the Fiscal Council and third in the Ministry of Finance. The European Commission never works on its own assessment. They ask the IMF or some relevant domestic experts, what do you think, because they don't have time to deal with Serbia and let's be completely open here. When they come to some meetings with us, they're the most boring meetings, like parrots repeating everything I've heard from the Fiscal Council. The IMF has never sent a weaker mission to Serbia in a technical sense, except for the head of Mrs. Murgasov. Indeed, a man who follows fiscal affairs went to the fiscal council to be told what to say. I'm telling you this completely open now. It is not necessary to underestimate Serbs, economic experts, because the Fiscal Council and the Finance Ministry have a double team in professional terms, but also the IMF, and not to mention the IBRD, it is only he who uses other people's estimates. They don't have their own analysis to deal in detail with macroeconomic matters. Maybe you don't like it, maybe I'm exaggerating, but that's the way it is. I've been in this for 12 years, and I can say it completely now. What's more, I didn't say today that this budget is neither developmental nor social. You've heard these arguments from different MPs in this debate. I said that it's radically different and that we're making a radical turn for the better and we're introducing serious financial discipline, and that's what I said and I'm standing really tight behind it and that this budget is completely different from the others that have been in the last six years. Why? Because, on the one hand, of course, it provides greater revenue through a set of tax laws already adopted in September and which will be adopted now in November, but on the other side, significant savings are being made in different categories of expenditure. If you look in real terms, in all categories, especially on goods and in servants, huge savings seem to be made. What are goods and services? So we reduce state spending by service, by contract, and for some material costs that are not necessary we save on administration. On the other hand, we are committed to social protection and agriculture. It's two areas, and when I say generous, we've provided enough money to help the most vulnerable as much as we can help. Over 100 billion dinars are spending on social protection. I wish the previous team that ran the finances in the government were more responsible, then they wouldn't pay 90 and some billion dinars for interest, so that money could be used for much more useful things. Since I don't want to complain, you saw for yourself that I haven't talked much about the past at the moment, I stand 100% on behalf of the government, and also on behalf of my ministry, behind this budget, how do you stop borrowing at a time when you have start-up expenses due to the previously accumulated debt of three billion euros a year? This year, there were three billion to pay off the debt and two billion more euros to cover the budget deficit. Next year, three billion euros are waiting for us again, because it cannot be interrupted, the debt has occurred in the past, the principal must be paid for previous borrowing, but that is why we are reducing to one billion budget deficit, so the total cost is four billion. We put more here, just because we want to secure money for 2014 in 2013. I think it's a good strategy and it's proven good and ask the experts, including those you spoke about, but other investment investors, investment funds, as they comment on the behavior of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia and the new finance minister, related to the success of our Eurobond auctions. There's no lie, and there's no fraud. The international market is made up of US investors via Great Britain, Japan, to Hong Kong, Europe, who buy our bonds and never bought them again, but now in this last auction. When we came out with the first package of measures, we targeted after that to re-open the old bond issued by the previous government, targeted because, firstly, we indicated that we were preparing to radically cut the deficit, even though we hadn't done it yet, but we are doing it now with this draft budget bill for 2013. The reaction was already that we were able to have four times as much demand as the offer and sell a billion Euro bonds at a cost of 6.625%, which is more favourable than 7.25, which was a show that the previous government made a year ago. The next step in the strategy was the early adoption of the 2013 budget, a month ago and immediately exiting the market, to take advantage of the fact that international financial investors believe in the new government, in our projection that growth will be 2%, because the key issue of Vlajko Senić and the team that led to the so-called. talks with investors before the auction followed, there were, what growth would be, whether 2%, detailed issues on macroeconomic stability and economic growth. That's the basis for their decision, whether or not they buy the bond. These are not losers, some state-owned Serbian companies, so to make them do it, they are investors who give their money and they have given their money on much more favourable terms than it was, which anyone expected of all analysts who are following that market. We managed to make a price of 5.25 for Serbian Eurobonds. The same year, just a few months earlier, Croatia sold five-year bonds at a rate of 6.25, we were one percent lower, better. If less is paid, it means they believe more in the future of government work. All countries today in the world, except, as I said, oil-produced countries, have natural resources, everyone is in charge of the international financial market. It's a common phenomenon. Some countries have a monopoly, like America, so they can borrow minus 0.25, because their federal reserves print money, but that's their policy. Some others are also in debt at a low rate. Ukraine, for example, sold its five-year bonds this year at 9.25 and Serbia 5.25. We're much better than Ukraine, not much of a comfort, but that's a fact. Approximately, we sold five-year bonds at Latvia level, which is a small country, a member of the EU, but with a very strong structure of public finances and at a lower rate than Lithuania, which was 6,625. The fact that it wasn't just a moment of speaking, here's who has a computer to go to the site and let's look at the price of the bonds. The last price for the five-year bonds of the Republic of Serbia is 4,85, even significantly lower than it was two weeks ago when we executed the transaction, and for ten-year-olds it fell to 5.56. What does that mean? This means that Serbia will be able to realise the Eurobond emission at a rate below 5% very easily next year. We're already entering a normal zone. In my view, some standard of normality will be when we reach 3.5% when we can sell our charters to international investors at 3.5%, then we are absolutely and absolutely safe and independent of both the IMF and anyone else who has capital, then we ourselves hold fate in our own hands. This is how we're on our way. It's a radical turn, it's not a little interest reduction, this government doesn't work 400 months, but four months. This budget when we projected, first people said – many optimistic revenues. Two days ago, Mr. Pavle Petrovic, whom I highly appreciate, the President of the Fiscal Council said - you planned your income well, we have no objection. Zero dinars differ in income projections. It was a problem that they doubted the structure we delivered to you a month ago, but we respected their remark and changed the structure more realistically now we planned it. They were right, all the objections to the fiscal council that were good, we installed. Literally, I mean, we put a dozen things into this draft budget law because people were right. I've already said, I greatly appreciate them, even when we disagree. There are those who tell stories to say something against, and they don't actually give anything concrete what needs to be done. Once again, the people of the Fiscal Council are threefold better at knowledge than some people in the IMF, whether they like it or not. What is also important is the average person going to live better at the end of 2013? You asked that question. There are no things that are more difficult to fix in society than the state of the economy, and you understand that and I understand that absolutely. I can only say that our citizens, at the end of 2013, will at least be in a position to know that there is no danger from the bankruptcy of the state, which was a real danger until maybe a month, two days ago. Another thing, once we turn these negative trends out of recession, achieve 2% of economic growth, it will be possible to think about the normal application of the indexation rules for public sector employees, and the private sector is what we want to help, because it is the only one that can push the country forward. We agree here in a few, in part not entirely, with the DSS MPs. Serbia is a small country and cannot be tied economically to one side only. Sixty percent of our exports depend on demand in the EU, and we are aware of that, we respect that and therefore cannot break up the accession and stabilisation agreement, as customs would automatically be imposed on our exports to EU countries. Therefore, this is not an acceptable model for the government of the Republic of Serbia. We have been exporting almost 10 years without customs duty as a concession given to us by the EU, and gradually our customs duties descend towards imports from EU countries. That's not our biggest problem. The solution to agriculture, on the other hand, I appreciate that the problem of lowering customs duties for agriculture has been well noted. The solution is, not to break relations with the EU, but to significantly increase subsidies to agriculture in the coming period, because it can or may be one or the other. If the Stabilisation Agreement was terminated, they would lose the right to preferential exports to EU countries and that would be disastrous. On the other hand, it can be sought, if there is a payment balance difficulty, it can be required for specific products to be exempted, but it has to be well proven and documented, and we are thinking about whether there are any products that we might be looking for an exception not to lower customs duties. It's not a simple job at all. Therefore, knowingly, having experience in this co-operation as long as it takes, and to convince bureaucracy from Brussels for some measure, we are thinking about increasing significant subsidies in the coming period, and thus compensating for possible losses based on the reduction of customs duties. What you're right, we think we can get a lot of money in intensifying co-operation with Russia, with China and with some Middle East countries, such as United Arab Emirates, such as Kuwait, such as Qatar. I don't think I know for what reason, the previous government has underestimated some of these countries a lot, even avoided encounters with some of them, and I think in cooperation with all of them we can benefit much more, which we will soon prove with concrete contracts. Finally, there are no large expenditures for the National Employment Service, since as many as 7.6 billion dinars are benefits for the unemployed. These are passive measures paid to people who have no job, in accordance with the law, and I would say only 6.1 is defined for active employment measures, which is only nominally the same as last year, so it's realistically lower than last year. So that's not even enough, but since we have to cut the budget deficit, we're literally fair, we've cut down all the ministries so-called. discretionary expenses. Someone has said – the government has easily agreed on this budget, although it is very restrictive in terms of costs, i.e. why? Because we were fair. I cut the economy ministry's budget the most, I personally run it, and no one else could say anything against it. If I cut the budget of the ministry that I'm running because I'm aware we have to cut expenses, everyone else has also accepted it without any major controversy in the government. We put this budget together very simply. I know the opposition might be responsible for the government fighting, but we're really working on a team and don't worry about why there are no other government representatives here today, except me as finance minister. There is no need, this discussion today really, with a few exceptions, has not made any concrete proposals on how to change the budget. The MPs of our coalition supported what we agreed together, unanimously adopted, so there's no need to spend time or Dacic. It's smarter that he went to Turkey and Germany, that he's coming here now to defend something when there's no attack. That there were serious budget attacks today, so let's call Dacic to help, or Wolfie. They've got a lot more serious work to do, and I'm in charge here and I'm not running away from 100% responsibility for this budget. Perhaps some ministers in the previous period have gone behind the responsibility, planted the second, third, fourth, as now the authorised representative of the former ruling largest party, told a few sentences and left, fled from the assembly, I mean Cvetkovic, I don't mean you, the former prime minister. That's not right, if he's a budget advocate, I guess he can come to listen, not that people who didn't run fiscal policy listen to criticism about the bad things they did in the previous period. In any case, this is a completely different budget than any of the previous ones, because breaking up the loss-making subsidisation, there are no guarantees for either Galenika or JAT for liquidity, there is no guarantee for liquidity and for "Srbigas". One more thing, I don't know why some Vojvodina MPs don't read the budget. Is the pipeline project from Banatski dvor to Pančev project in western Serbia or is it a capital project in Vojvodina? It stands nicely in the budget of guarantees and direct borrowing, just like this highway from Ruma to Novi Sad, i.e. from Novi Sad to Ruma with a tunnel in Frusko Gora. I repeat again, because of the misinformation that has been expressed all these days by various politicians in this country, that the basis for determining the Vojvodina budget is greater with the new law on the budget system than it was the old one. It's 837 billion dinars, and it was 750 billion dinars. This request for the amendments that were discussed yesterday, if adopted and applied 7%, the Vojvodina budget would be 67 billion, and according to our proposal is at least 70. So, under the current Budgetary System Act, which some dispute, Vojvodina gets more, which means it's all just a policy that MPs and politicians have the right to do, but when we discuss numbers, the numbers, the numbers, should be exact. I want to thank the ruling coalition's MPs for their concrete and strong support. You opposition people, say something concrete. There has never been a more boring budget debate in the last 12 years. (Hope of Kolundji, from the site: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5111	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5112	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm calling for article 107. I expect you to make it impossible to insult the MPs and insult the dignity of the National Assembly, not even by the minister. So, the fact is that MPs are politely speaking about the budget and making arguments, which not only prove that the budget is not what the minister is saying, but that the minister is also serving tricks to show the budget more successful than it is. The fact that MPs are decent does not mean that it gives the minister the right to insult them and that the debate is boring. The fact that the prime minister didn't come here isn't about whether the debate is a mess or not. It is the prime minister's obligation to be in the Assembly when the budget is being discussed. It is the obligation of all ministers to attend the session when the budget is discussed. I ask you best to calm down the minister, who, when there is no strong enough argument, reaches out for insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5113	Thank you. I hope we all continue in one normal atmosphere in which this debate is under way. I thanked the entire National Assembly for discussing the budget and it should be a congregation debate that discusses the future of this country. Of course, as far as the government's representatives are concerned and as far as the MPs are concerned, I was quite tolerated when some of the MPs today in the budget debate talked about how boring the debate is and how to shake, wake up, allow it as a metaphor and as a way of speaking. I also felt that it was said by Minister Dinkic, but I expect everyone to refrain from any expressions that could be interpreted as a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you for understanding. The word has Mr. Gjurij as a replica. (Zoran Kasalovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize, Mr. Zoran Kasalovic has his word on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5114	I'm also advertising Article 107. The rules of conduct of a violation of dignity, but compared to the previous speaker, Mr. Djuric, who said one lie, that the prime minister is a problem. On the contrary, that is not entirely true, and it is completely false. Prime Minister Dacic is best at leading a clear and firm policy. In addition, Minister Dinkic confirmed it and easily agreed on the budget. I am in the hands of the Prime Minister's exposés, and I would like to remind the MPs, who spoke about it on July 26th and why the government has easily agreed on the budget, because in this exposé, Prime Minister Dacic literally said that the national priority of the time in which we live is economic recovery, that, on the side of eight exposés, emergency measures are necessary to reduce the budget deficit. On the one hand, the measures must be radical, towards reducing bureaucracy, eliminating the cost of the state. Also, the prime minister said what are the comparative advantages and basic economic development in the Republic of Serbia, which are agriculture, the food industry, energy, infrastructure. He said there'd be no freezing wages and pensions. He also said that we are planning a significant increase in the agrarian budget and that, within a short time, we should establish an agrarian policy that will be predictable. So from all of this we see clear outlines and a clear framework of economic policy announced by Prime Minister Dacic in his exposé. He coordinates the government's work in the best possible way and with coalition partners. He built these objectives and elements of economic policy into this budget. Therefore, not that it is not a problem, but simply a generator for solving all problems, the most significant problems in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5115	To be honest, I wasn't at the moment of Mr. Djuric's exposure in the O.R., but if he said that the essence of his political position on the work of the government and the work of the Prime Minister was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So he has the right to state a political position, which is not offensive to the Prime Minister. If I were to intervene every time the name of Alexander Vukic or the edge of Dacic was mentioned, I would have to intervene very often. As you can see, I do not, because it is the legitimate right of the MPs to express a political position on a particular subject. I would, of course, once again ask all the MPs to hold on to the subject in their debates and refrain from any expressions that other MPs might interpret as offensive. The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5116	I also have a line to Mr Dinkic, but I'll talk about it later. So you can't let a debate be conducted like this, that this is how you abuse the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, because then everyone will be able to respond through the breach of the Rules of Procedure to each exposure. This is very important to me because Mr. Kasalovic is talking about how I insulted someone here. I was quoting Mr. Dacic's statement from the public service, which is in conversation with Editor Nenada Lj. Stefanovic said he has a problem with economists all the time, because he makes his proposals, and they keep saying something like that is impossible. I was wondering if the Prime Minister thought there might be a problem with him. I think it's a legitimate position, that I didn't insult anyone. What you're reacting in this way, misusing the Rules of Procedure, actually supports my thesis and regret that I referred to Mr Dinkic, it's a shame that the prime minister is not here today. I believe he could answer my remarks a lot better than you do. There is no need for you to do so instead of the prime minister because in order countries, especially on crucial state issues such as the debate on the budget in parliament, defends the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5117	Thank you. Here you go. [[Bojan Djuric, from the place: I now have a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5118	I've already partially responded to what you've been talking about, Mr. Dinkic, so I can use these two minutes more effectively. Praise the Fiscal Council. Many of his remarks were rejected, but you did not say what the Fiscal Council said about the projection of GDP growth in 2013. The other thing, very important, you keep talking about protecting the most vulnerable, preserving jobs, and you keep acting, and you and your ruling coalition, as if it were the only jobs and the only employees in this country who work for the state in any way. So it's a terrible injustice. It's the opposite of what you point out as your political goal. That's why I said the budget was a political matter, a political commitment. You have decided that, among other things, and with this budget in 2013, absolutely no one can be left without a job in the public sector, although you say a thousand ways yourself, and you know that in many segments it is inefficient, that it has been making losses for years, that it is constantly on this or that kind of subsidy, and at the same time you allow that in the private sector, which should be a locomotive of development, as it is correct, but only at the level of the parole you say, without a job in the previous years, and so it will be in the following year, there will be several thousand citizens of this country. The citizens of this country are equal. The interests of each of them are legitimate. The most important interest in this country is not just those people who work for the state or run those companies or those who are related to the parties. And you have to take care of that. We keep telling you about this in this House. You rely on that part of the electoral body that you can control more easily by protecting them, among other things, by budgeting them. But your Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, so I say it's a shame he's not here, because two days ago he announced a reform of labour legislation next year. Why has there been no reform of labour legislation this year? When you say – the more flexible rules of employment and layoffs, that means easier cancellation. We don't have a principle problem with that, LDP, we're just about to say it fair and restructure the state, not by budgeting to provide frozen jobs and frozen wages for everyone, and nothing you'll do to make these sectors of the state more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5119	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5120	You're wrong. First, we have shown that we are equally treating both the state and the private sector through at least two things that we have proposed or proposed, and the Assembly adopted, or the law that we are going to consider this week. First thing, we're in, for example. the same penalty for the country's late VAT refund, as charged when the private sector is late in tax payments. Secondly, we are stricter to the state than to the private sector than to this law restricting payment deadlines. We ask the state to pay within a maximum of 45 days and from the private sector within a maximum of 60 days. This shows clearly what our intentions are. Third, it is not wise to fire people when economic growth goes down when there is recession. Why? They don't have anywhere to find a job and we're making bigger expenses on the other side. And third, it is not wise to fire people in the public sector without serious analysis of structural how to reform the sector. That depends on the resolution ministers. As for my portfolio, which is the economy, we have a completely clear action plan of what we're going to do about the enterprises in restructuring and some public enterprises that need to be restructured. We've been planning an appropriate transition fund. It's not true there won't be any social programs in next year, but it's true that this transition fund is relatively small. It amounts to a billion and 800 million dinars, but we also change the style of behavior compared to the previous period. We do not want to approve social programmes in part, to leave some workers who want to do so without resolving the status of the company at the same time. Our condition for the approval of social programmes will be a permanent solution to the status of a certain state-owned enterprise, or on the basis of the payment of that social programme, the restructuring will be permanently removed and the company will be independent on the market. In that case, we will pay off the social programme or make it self-sustainable through restructuring. It's a JAT case. JAT cannot survive without those liquidity guarantees it has in previous years. If we let JAT stay in the same state as now, he'd fall apart, he doesn't stand a chance. He's got an old fleet, he's got too many employees, he's got a bad employee structure. The task force was built and now we're going to form a new JAT. In this new JAT, those who have an economic justification to work must work, the pilots must, but the question is whether such an administration is needed. And that requires a social programme that's secured in the budget, but we'll go case by case, step by step. For healthcare, it is intended to change the system of funding in health care and is intended to allow both local self-government and cities to take over those doctors and nurses, who have not been agreed, and this has been banned so far. There are 13,700 unnecessarily agreed doctors and nurses at the moment. The problem has been pushed under the carpet for years, as far as health care funding is concerned, because instead of solving it, the money that was intended for drug hospitals was used to pay salaries to doctors and nurses. We're changing that now. We change our funding system, we clean up our debts to hospitals, but that's why we give the right to local self-government, if they want to have local hospitals, if they want to hire people for some special local health care, they can, but they pay for it themselves, not from a republican budget where the criteria will be strictly respected. At the same time, the Ministry of Education is assessing how education is financed by what is said to be the head of students, or to say what is a republican standard. If some municipalities want to introduce specific departments for specific professions, to have rural schools with five students, they can, but they will have to pay themselves in the future. This means that reforms are being seriously carried out. The only thing you're right about, the reforms were pushed under the carpet in the previous years. What was expected to be done in the previous period was not done. Now this new government has been waiting for a lot of work. Indeed, this pile of work cannot be completed completely in four months. We did everything right. First we stabilise public finances, so we can even implement any structural reform and then move into structural reforms. We've been going into structural reforms since New Year's Eve. That's the answer to your question. In healthcare, I have already said this, in enterprises that are in restructuring and in some public enterprises that have no market perspective, and have losses, we will go to privatisation very clearly, because we do not want to cover losses for those who spend taxpayers' money. I don't know what more radical we can do right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5121	Thank you. Mr. Kassalovic, the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5122	Replica. Mr. Djuric mentioned me. What I'm trying to say is, there's no misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5123	First tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure are you advertising?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5124	I'm mentioned, Mr. Djuric mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5125	He didn't mention you, I didn't hear him mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5126	Mr. Djuric mentioned me...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5127	Let's just get the session back to normal. So, you advertised the first violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Kasalovic, from the place: Yes. ) Mr Đuric also advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any basis for the replica, because in the meantime, there was no presentation of the MPs, but both of you responded after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, please, let's get the session back on track. Mr. Djuric, here you go. A replica of Mr Dinkic?
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5128	Which came out, though, as far as I can tell. I hardly have the right to argue with Mr. Senic, who has no right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, and I had no doubt that Mr. Senic was a good negotiator. But let's not cause any more problems in the ruling coalition. I think that practically through what Mr Dinkic was talking about, he gave real evidence for the thesis that the LDP stands for for years. We've been saying all day that there are no structural reforms, that they're not made. Mr Dinkic said -- here it is, as of January 1, 2001, practically, that's what he said in the same words on September 25th here when we talked about budget rebalancing. On a whole series of issues that I have opened – mining rent, Željzara "Medrevo", control of DRI funds for Kosovo, NIS business etc., I have not received a single answer. Finally, Mr Dinkic's appearance suggests that he has accepted some of Mr Dacic's habits or attitudes. Until a few weeks ago, only Mr. Dacic had called on the Fiscal Council and the IMF for open duels, accounts, shouting – neut. Now it seems to me that Mr Dinkic is trying to work, and I certainly don't think that's good at all. About how public enterprises will be restructured, my question is very specific. How will there be no money to fund the indifference of "Srbigas" as of January 1st when "Srbijagas" will make losses in the same way and to the same extent as it does today? Who's going to pay the debt of "Serbiagas"? Just because it is not foreseen in the budget in one way or another does not mean that the debt will not ultimately be paid. And he will end up as a new public debt. This is what is the essence of the remarks and this applies to the vast majority of the other companies that were spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5129	Thank you. The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5130	Madam Chairman, I think something really happened today that should not only concern MPs in the National Assembly, but also worry... (President: Mrs. Kolundjia, would you please tell me which member you are referring to? ) I refer to Article 107. So, in the most cruel way, the dignity of the National Assembly was injured. Today, Minister Dinkic photographed the hall and sent it, or posted it on his Twitter, with comments that really do not deserve to be repeated here. I don't know if we could have experienced more humiliation than what Minister Dinkic did today. The most beautiful please, indeed, this is not about which MP group he has commented, it is not about which MP group he has photographed and which group the comment is referring to. The Minister's photographing the hall, putting it on Twitter, and making such comments, speaks of the Minister all the worst, who doesn't deserve to enter this assembly hall, not address the MPs. I don't think this is something the National Assembly could have imagined happening. So, what the minister's profile, who could have done such a thing, speaks for itself, and we shouldn't talk about it, but how the Assembly should be appointed to such a minister, I think it really deserves attention. I don't think you should continue this session until the Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has been given a warning until this assembly has been declared responsible for this behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5131	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. The Rules of Procedure do not provide that the chairman can give a warning to a member of the government. I really don't know what you're talking about. So, Minister Dinkic is here, so if he wants to answer... I'm really not up to what you're talking about. I'm really not in the middle of it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5132	Thank you. I point out the violation of Article 27 by the chairman, which is a member who undertakes to take care of the order at the session and the incorrect claim made about the absence of custody of the order, that a member of the Government cannot be told. You're damn right he can. Every participant in the session is equal. In the rules that bind us, we do not differ on any basis, whether we are MPs, whether we are presidents of parliamentary groups, whether we are authorized representatives, whether we are ministers or whether we are prime ministers and vice-presidents of the government. Minister Dinkic overplayed and decided to entertain social networks, painting and qualifications and disqualification of the MPs. If that's not the thing that bothers the Assembly in any way, I don't mind having you decide that's okay, so as long as we all bring laptops to the O.R. tomorrow and start taking pictures of the various MPs in different positions when they don't watch out and comment, if that's democracy promoted by Minister Dinkic, having fun both inside and outside the O.R. on social networks. So, the decision is progressing whether a reminder of such behaviour will be given or not, but Article 27, which implies a custody of the application of all the members of the Rules of Procedure, implies also a reminder to the derans and girls who think they know order, but don't know things. It happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5133	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Therefore, the notice is regulated by Article 109. Rules of Procedure. In Article 109. The Rules of Procedure say that the reminder is given to the People's MP, and cases in which the reminder is given are listed. What Mrs. Kolundji was talking about, I didn't see it coming, and I didn't get a chance to see it. So, I can't do anything, I'm not saying I couldn't, but in order to warn anyone about anything, I have to make sure of that. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Kolundjia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5134	I refer to Article 8 and Article 103. You are required to take care of the order in the session of the National Assembly. If it takes time for you to make sure that this behavior has happened, I ask you to set a break, make sure that it happened and take the measures that are appropriate in the case it is. I beg you most, because if we once allow ministers to make fun of the National Assembly in this way, we will never again have the right to ask anyone in this assembly to behave in respect of this institution. The first to respect this institution is MPs, but also ministers. Please take a break, make sure that's exactly what I'm saying. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. But if it's true, then let it be, at least, that the minister apologizes for this behavior, which can't even be called childish.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5135	The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5136	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm advertising Article 107. If you didn't have a chance to see what Mladjan Dinkic wrote on his Twitter account, you should have reacted now as Mrs Kolundzija spoke and warned him because he laughed all the time. He's still entertained by this situation. He believes it's very funny what he did. If you couldn't convince yourself of his behaviour on social networks, you could see for yourself his behavior here in this room, which is extremely inappropriate, which offends the National Assembly, which offends the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs, and therefore the citizens who voted for us. I suggest that, if you do not think that you are able to continue to conduct this session objectively, given that it is the president of your party, to exempt yourself from this debate and leave Mr Popovic to chair the Assembly, because I believe that he will do so in a way that will allow us all to better look at this situation, because you obviously have an absolutely non-critical and biased relationship that is not similar to the MP, nor the vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5137	Who reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, just to see? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5138	The Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5139	I'm interrupting the session and I'm taking a 10-minute break until there's a line in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5140	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please begin your work. Allow me, as chairman, to ask you to calm down the situation and on behalf of the chairman, to apologize for the misunderstandings that have taken place. I think it would be a good idea to keep working on the agenda and stop exorcising justice. After all, the question is where is justice. The word is made by MP Ivan Jokovic. (Hope Kolundji, from the place: I want to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. If you really insist, then I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to Sala I. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I give the word to Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5142	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I see that the National Assembly or part of the National Assembly has offended the tweet I have published on social networks, I would like to say that I expected that in this debate the bench to be a deep-seated critic of the budget. I wanted to publicly record what was my feeling at the moment of the debate, to be praised by the ruling coalition, without being in these benches by anyone from the formerly largest party. If that offends anyone, if that truth has offended anyone, I deeply apologize to him, and I apologize to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if the institution is injured. I had no intention of offending anyone, although I was offended by the fact that the debate on the act that everyone says is the most important legal act in the state takes place without a large part of the opposition. It might be nice for someone, maybe someone who likes to go through a debate without a lot of controversy, but it doesn't feel good to me. I'm a man who likes criticism and I love that if we have arguments to adopt them. So the mention of two anonymous characters was a jargon used on Twitter. I had no intention of offending anyone. If these two MPs, whose names I really don't know, are offended, I personally apologize to them, and to the Serbian Parliament certainly if they think her dignity has been injured. I didn't know about the rules that shouldn't and can't use Twitter, because it's a public means of communication, because it's a direct transmission, but if the Assembly thinks Twitter was an insult, I won't use it for the duration of the debate. I repeat once again, if I have offended the Assembly, I apologize, but I think I have reached my goal because the entire assembly has returned to the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5143	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5144	I'm reporting for damage to the Assembly's reputation. It would be good for Minister Dinkic to hear the reaction of the College...
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5145	Excuse me, Mr. Micunovic. I ask the People's Messengers for silence, we want to hear what the Messenger is saying. I can't tell what a man's saying. So pay attention. Here you go, Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5146	This is a home that represents national sovereignty, the highest home. Ministers are elected by this house and everywhere in the world, it is possible and normal that MPs are rude and that they strongly attack the government as their own officials, because they chose them, but it is unusual, it is unacceptable for ministers to insult MPs. This disrupts the normal division of power and the hierarchy of power. That's why that precedent can't stay. I used to sit in that president's seat, and I kicked the Secretary of Defense out when he misbehaved. Therefore, I did not defend myself or anyone, except defend the sovereignty of the National Assembly. If someone is unable to see that what he did is an insult to the Assembly and cannot force the minister to listen to him. What if it was a half-empty joke? They have rights to that. They'll say, "We're bored listening to him for three hours every explanation." It is their business, but it is not his business to put it on Twitter and to compromise, insult and in any way degrade parliament that has chosen it. Therefore, we consider this apology incorrect, incorrect, and unless Minister Dinkic understands that he has injured parliament, which was a finding of the entire College, then I suggest we stop working and continue on Monday, I hope in a different composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5147	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you know, I'm going to have to quote a few of the members I'm calling for, and that time is not possible at the time of the speech. Reporting by Articles 1, 27, 103 to 111. The Rules of Procedure, which were injured at the time of the interruption of the work of this Assembly, for which there was no basis. Why? Article 1 states – This Rules of Procedure shall regulate the organisation and work of the National Assembly and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, in the text of the law. In line with that, the one who chaired at that moment, first after the stroke, I suppose it's a lapus that it's not possible to say the Minister's warning, it's possible. As you know, I also chaired the right reminder that I gave to Minister Mladjan Dinkic at the time, and the second one was Minister Velimir Ilic. Why? Because they hurt at the meeting of the National Assembly, or they insulted the messengers of the people. The same applies to all participants in the session, and if someone is making a mess in the Assembly, he is required to be warned to violate, not only the Rules of Procedure and all these members, but also the Law on the National Assembly, which guarantees the public of the work in Article 11. This member says – The public work of the National Assembly is ensured by creating conditions for television and internal transmissions of the National Assembly sessions, press conferences, issuing official announcements, enabling the monitoring of the work of the National Assembly by representatives of public information funds, observers of domestic and international associations and organisations and interested citizens... (President: Time, Mr. Markovic. I'm reading something right now that can't be included in time, this is a quote. ... taking into account the stenographic notes and the minutes of the National Assembly session, on the National Assembly website and in other ways in accordance with the law and Rules of Procedure. In line with this, and before this law was passed, Mr. Chairman, Serbian citizens, and some also professionally late Draško Gagovic, making huge professional efforts, he took pictures of the MPs at the moment when they were scratching their noses, when they were scratching their ears, in different ways, just to ensure the public's work. According to this, if someone thinks that because someone is a fan, someone worships RTS, someone worships Mladjan Dinkic, I don't know what Mladjan Dinkic did on Twitter, but everyone has the right to write comments about what he sees during the public service of the National Assembly. In case... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5149	The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5150	Mr. Chairman, I really think it's in your hands that you might end this. So, in view of this, I call for Article 107 and Article 8 and the obligation to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So unless the minister considers it necessary, regardless of what the College has jointly concluded that he should apologize. If he doesn't think it's necessary to apologize, I'm asking the session to be interrupted and to continue on Monday. Indeed, in conditions that will allow us to discuss this act in the way that this act deserves. So, if there were no bad intentions, I must say an evil attempt to disqualify the National Assembly then the minister would know that out of the 17 MPs reported, the Democratic Party has applied for the discussion, but it has not yet come to order. So, I am not talking about that he has offended only DS he has offended parliament, because it is unimaginable that an MP paints and in an offensive way commenting on the work of parliament, this is about it, not whether a parliamentary group is offended or not. Please, if the minister won't apologize in the way this parliament deserves, you'll interrupt this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2012-11-23-0.u5151	Please, from what I hear, the minister apologized. That the methodology and way of expressing it may not appeal to you, but the fact that he apologized to Parliament and highlighted the two MPs he took. So he kind of apologized. You may not like it, but there is an apology. You can be angry now, we can strip someone now, we can do it anyway, if you want to make a big deal out of them, but the fact is that the minister apologized. Gentlemen, we're finishing work today. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours.
